ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u1	136. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I would remind you that, according to the approved agenda, we will proceed immediately after the consultation of paragraph 136 by discussing the fixed points. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. On the agenda of the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 12 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' We will therefore now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First of all, there is an interview with Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who responded to the interpellation of Mr Martin Kolovratník on Plytka and expensive government communication. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 363. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 9 and 23 February and 20 April until the presence of the Prime Minister. We are therefore continuing the debate. I see that both the Prime Minister and Mr Kolovratník are present. I would like to ask the honourable Member, are you interested in speaking in the debate? [[Yes.]] Now I ask for your performance. Colleagues and colleagues, please keep the room down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. To begin with, I will say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister is present today, that we will discuss or finish this topic and that I will certainly not be critical of the fact that it is an interpellation at the beginning of this year at the moment or at the beginning of my interpellation, and I completely understand, I respect the Prime Minister's work programme, when it was suspended on 9 and 23 February and 20 April. And I'm sure it's not a political issue to be critical at all costs, that not every Thursday we managed to meet here. So I'm glad we're discussing the subject today. Just for starters, I called the interpellation "Ply and Expensive Government Communications." For the rest of you who didn't look at its contents, let me remind you very briefly, I asked two questions in particular. The first one was the Umbrella campaign against the precious, which I personally consider to be flawed, inefficient. I didn't ask a specific question in my interview how much it cost to create this website, and I'm not even going to ask that today. I suppose it's a relatively small microweb that could probably be worth tens of thousands of crowns, and I don't think that's a good topic for interpelation. I consider it one of the operating costs of the Office of the Government or Government as such. However, I will return to this deštník against the preciously brief, or I will stop by for a moment. You, Prime Minister, responded that you were satisfied with him, that you didn't understand how nothing like this could have happened before. Well, I'm just gonna ask you to enlist your team to look at the Umbrella or microweb today. I watched it this morning. There is still an introductory phrase for energy that electricity prices are rising and will continue to grow in Europe and we do not know when this growth will stop. We have half of May, and we know the situation is a little different, different. It would certainly be worth updating such a site, first of all. Secondly, in interpelling my specific questions, I aimed at the case at that time or the activity of your government and coalition colleague, Minister Rakušan, who posted the caricature on the Ministry of the Interior - a body bag - with a painting or the face of Russian President Putin. I'm saying here that you gave me a factual reply that the government was informed of this, that the costs were borne by the Decomunisation Association. I don't think that's the reason we're going back to this in vain. [[9.10 hours]] In the introductory words, however, I want to update it, because what I was referring to is that the government communicates in an unclear, unreasonable way, sometimes unnecessarily expensive, and especially for the citizens of the Czech Republic confusing, so the update, and here I will ask you for a response and your personal opinion, an explanation, is information a little over a month ago from the beginning of April of this year, and it relates to the subject of cheaper food prices in Poland, which we have been discussing here on the last interviews with your colleague, Minister Stanjura. And so I was totally surprised and surprised when your advisor Mr. Štěpán Křeček in the media publicly advises them to go shopping in Poland if it pays off. "I look at it from the point of view of people and it is true that it is really more advantageous," said your advisor Štěpán Křeček on CNN Prima television. Then he divorced that it is not a solution for everyone, mostly just for those who live near the border, but in his opinion it even pays off for larger purchases even to the Pražan... And this is where I want you, Prime Minister, to ask for a response. Do you really think that your advisor, a representative of the government, that is, a person who speaks in his own way and on your behalf, is to advise the citizens of the Czech Republic? Thank you for your reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u3	The Prime Minister wants to respond during the debate. [[The O.R.'s quieted down.]] Now we should keep the noise level exactly like this, please, colleagues and colleagues. That's perfect. Please let us handle this. Please, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that we can meet here today in an interview. This is the parliamentary discipline that I like, and I apologise for not being able to attend some of the previous Thursdays because of the foreign trips and the European Council's events, but the Member has shown an understanding of this, and I think it was not ironically meant to be so, and so I understand it. I will start with the last question that has to do with communication, because the advisers are at least in my understanding and in the understanding that is common in the world, unless the function is defined by some legislative anchor, such as national security advisors, people who are not supposed to speak for the government, we have a political responsibility for that and people who are spokespersons or something like that, but should advise us. And I've spent my whole life following the fact that it's good to hear opinions that aren't entirely mine or that I don't like, but they're the opinions of experts on certain areas that just give me some expertise. This is the case with my advisors and, of course, not every one of those advisors can say anything in the media space that I would say or what would be simply ideally said, and so it is also in the case of this statement. I've already repeatedly told the media that I consider him unhappy, out of context. Counselor Křeček described a situation that is taking place, but that does not mean that the statement in the situation was appropriate and that he met with such understanding as he probably meant. But more importantly, it is not that someone is sending people to buy food in Poland. The government has acted here and acted very intensively, and the result of government efforts - sometimes a little caricated, but unnecessary, because we recognize the fruit, let's look at the results - the result is that food prices are falling. When we look at the latest data on consumer prices and food prices, we see that the month-on-month decline in food prices in the section Food and soft drinks is significant, for vegetables by 5 %, for eggs by 12,9%, semi-fat milk by 12,3%, soft drinks by 2,3%, oils and fats by 2.6 %, poultry by 1,5 %, sugar by 4 %, so I could continue. These are not negligible amounts, and these are not negligible percentages, so we see here that it has the effect that food prices are falling, and that is why this is the result of our government's policy, the pressure on all those who form the chain, from producers to sellers, and I think that citizens here clearly see. So that's the government's activity, and that's the right response. Of course, if we wanted to be correct, we can say that people from Poland come to us to buy fuel, we all know that, but I don't want to talk about that right now, and that actually, in the context of cross-border cooperation, this is actually common. But what it shouldn't cover up is that, yes, we were not satisfied with food prices as high as we were, we did the necessary steps, food prices are clearly falling, here I showed the figures, and this has a very positive effect on the month-on-month decline in inflation, which is definitely good news for all citizens of the Czech Republic, and I think we need to be happy about this, whether we are in a government coalition or in opposition - just food prices are falling significantly and I hope that this trend will continue. As far as communication is concerned, I am certainly satisfied with the communication that the government is making in the form of strategic communication. Of course, the fact that we could improve communication in one or another area, as well as individual government members, is always the case, you can always improve communication, but you probably did not mean that, because we will probably not judge each other as to how the opposition or the coalition communicates, how satisfied it is with it. You had in mind the things that were realized in the context of strategic communication, and here I think the price-performance ratio, or the impact - and really there's no point in talking about small amounts - that the impact was good. But I would like to correct the idea here that we are assessing this from the point of view of how it may create a positive impression of government among citizens. That's not the goal of strategic communication at all, we have other tools for that, standard political communication. The goal of this strategic communication is to inform citizens of what the state is offering them, what they can use, what services they can use, where they can turn when they need help, what assistance they are entitled to. This is the goal of strategic communication, and it is from this point of view that strategic communication, and for that there are data, has clearly achieved its goal. Even those who couldn't or didn't ask didn't know that they were entitled to a housing allowance, so they started asking for it, and they started asking for it in a much larger number than before. This means that our strategic communication, in this matter the Umbrella Against Delicateness, clearly fulfills its function, and the citizens understood what we are trying to tell them. If anyone expected it to boost the popularity of the government or something, we didn't, we didn't expect it, we didn't even put energy and money into it. The intention was absolutely clear - as a state informs citizens of the possibilities, how the state helps and can help them, and I think that is right and that is a good thing. That's how strategic communication works. But I'm gonna go back to the debate that you started, and that's the Ministry of the Interior and putting out the caricature of the President of the Russian Federation. For the record, the design, the production of the cartoon was in the hands of the Decomunization Association. The Home Office used the item in the form of a loan. The press paid for the association Decomunization, the Ministry of Interior paid only for installation and deinstallation. Installation and deinstalling 73 000 crowns, the cost of installing and deinstalling this cartoon will be returned to the state, the budget chapter of the Ministry of Interior, in the form of a donation from the proceeds of the cartoon auction. The main amount of this auction will be used for the benefit of the victims of the aggression of the Russian Federation. The cost of the state budget, i.e. the chapters of the Ministry of the Interior, has not been incurred and none will arise. So much for that particular case, and otherwise I think I've answered all your questions and doubts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u5	I first see Mr Juchelka's point of fact, who is reporting, so then I subsequently register Mr Kolovratník's application. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u6	Thank you very much. I will only respond, of course, to the imaginary Umbrella Against Delicateness, which this government has presented with great pomp and is still talking about, although less and less, because it is clear that from the point of view of the payment deadlines for individual benefits relating to social assistance, such as the housing allowance, this is simply and simply the labour authorities are not following. I believe, and we have also opened it several times on the Committee on Social Policy, that there are many, that the payout here is extended by up to 90 days, when these people are waiting to have to pay rent, and they have great problems with the fact that tenants are de facto throwing them out of their apartments, until we see how the Czech Social Security Administration is operating at the moment, where 20,000 people are demanding that their retirement pensions be calculated. So I'm just asking, because the deštník is obviously not working against expensively, how this government, if it even deals with it at meetings, how do tens of thousands of citizens who demand their own, how or when de facto it will be corrected when it comes to this, because the 25,000 wait on an average of 99 days for their old-age pension to be calculated. At this point, we see how health insurance companies treat it, that they give them bills and penalties for not paying health insurance, and I feel that because this government doesn't deal with inflation, that everything gets expensive, that here, as my honored colleague Martin Kolovratník says, government advisors recommend buying across borders... [[Time.]] Yes, buying groceries that the government doesn't handle. And it's due to inflation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u7	Your time is up. Now a few factual points. First, Mrs Peštová, followed by Mr Mašek, Government Member Pastuchová and Prime Minister Fiala. That's the current order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, I apologise for the bad vocal cords. In any case, I wanted to respond here to the Prime Minister, if he realizes, when he was defending the battalion or, respectively, what was posted at the Ministry of the Interior, that you are opening up this path, that at the moment we can all put in and apply, we'll start a nonprofit here, and we'll put anything on any ministry, because we're going to wrap it up in the fact that it's going to be an auction or that it's going to be some kind of promotion for someone else entirely. That's one thing. And the second thing, then I'm not surprised that if you open up your social networks and read those tweets of Mr. Novotný, who happens to be your ODS member, who says he has Mr. Rakušan's cover and your cover, and that nothing will ever happen to him, then everything is clear to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u9	Now, Mr Mašek with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u10	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues, I will follow up on what Berenika Peštová said through you, and in particular the fact that something is really changing here, because Mr Rakušan's explanation was that it was his activity, the KRIT team's activity, he admitted it, even claimed that he would eventually pay for what it cost, the collage. And your explanation, Prime Minister, has moved somewhere else, that basically some decomunization association has applied for, it has come to its satisfaction - it's completely different, and I want to know where it really is true and why we're moving it when we've already confessed to it once. I'd rather ask the Home Secretary if he were present, and I think it's a little undignified to keep changing the explanation. And then I have the other thing. You've been a little holed up here by having the cheapest fuel now, that it's completely changed, that the government's been working prudently, and now it's getting results. I would like to remind you that together with Hungary and Slovakia we are exempt and can import in quotation marks undemocratic oil from the Russian Federation, which we do, year on year, if I have good information, about 850 000 tonnes. Some of our processing plants like Litvínov still depend on it from 75 percent. So the fact that there's a low price of diesel has more to do with it, and I wouldn't even be picking it up politically. Let's see what happens after New Year's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u11	So she will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Pastuchová. The Prime Minister is canceling the facts and reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Just to add to the deštník versus the costume, which really doesn't work. You're here to offer help to a lot of seniors, but I'm going back to the Czech Social Security Administration again, and here I really want to point out that this isn't about the workers of the Czech Social Security Administration, because there are professional employees who work there, and it's not just someone that can be accepted in order to calculate our pensions, but I have a colleague or a friend who has been writing to me since December that he's applied for an old-age pension or retirement, and he doesn't have it today if I can somehow check it out from my position or something. So it's been five months. I called him, he said, "I have some money saved, but what are the people who don't have it?" But what do I want to get to? You guys put housing subsidies on old houses just for seniors, but the senior can't exhaust it because he doesn't have a pension. So you're offering help, but on the other hand, the help isn't with you. And another thing, now that we're reading your signals about how pension reform is gonna look, no one really knows. So there's another rush to the Czech Social Security Administration because everyone's worried about what's going to happen, so there's another rush to ask for pensions, and we're going to get a valorization. So I'd like to see if you ever discuss this subject with the government, and what is your solution to that? I know it's probably not that much for you, but even my next interview would be directed at the Minister of Health, but you're the Prime Minister one day, so I think you should know everything and you should be able to answer these questions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u13	Now, first of all, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura. The real ones have priority, so... [[Voices from the diaper.]] I know, I'm just taking advantage of the time that I don't have to negotiate peace this time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u14	Madam President, I would like to ask my colleague and colleagues from the ANO movement to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Let's see what the content of the interpelation is, and please ask yourself, two or three performances, whether they were to do it. [[unintelligible]] I fully respect that, I think it's for the afternoon, for a particular member of the government. After all, we cannot proceed to the model - at least I do not think we can - that I will give a specific written interview on a specific matter and then the debate is all about everything in the debate. It doesn't seem consistent or productive to me, because it's... we all knew which House prints are on today's agenda, we who have been involved in some of the detailed answers or are here to explain it - I think it's no secret that resorts, if there's an interpellation to the Prime Minister and there's some details, so the documents have been processed by the various departments. I'm sure I'm ready here if it comes to those written interpelations that were made to the Prime Minister about the issues of the Ministry of Finance, possibly supplementing with more detailed arguments of the Prime Minister. I'm just asking for some - not indulgence, but something that comes close to the normal discussion, because then we're going to call the item "Interpelation to the Prime Minister," it doesn't really matter what's in a specific written interpelation, it's a different form of interpelation, why not, if we agree on it and change the rules of procedure, why not, but this is what I think doesn't match what it is. It's no big deal, because asking the Prime Minister to answer every detail of all the resorts is nice, but it's not entirely realistic, it's like I'm sorry. And I have 20 more seconds. About the pension reform - I was sitting here when your chairman announced pension reform in 2015. Some of your members have yet to know how to perform, this is the best idea in the history of debates on pension reform. It's 2023 and you didn't introduce anything. That doesn't mean you have no right to criticize what we represent, of course, but at the same time, where is the pension reform you reported eight years ago? [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u15	A few factual points, now Mrs Peštová, are followed by President Schillerová, all factual. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to Minister Stanjura. Minister, we only responded to what the Prime Minister said here, and, as far as I know, the factual point is on the subject before you. We weren't making anything up here. I listened carefully, I came here, and I only responded. And when I looked back at the way things were going in the past times when you guys were in opposition, it was exactly the same, and no one here was telling anyone that... [[Minister Stanjura responds from the government bench.]] We're not gonna yell at each other, are we? [[- Please don't communicate with each other.]] Yes, I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you so you know I'm telling you. When I looked at the discussion here in the past period, it went exactly the same way. Each speaker simply responded to the speaker and spoke to the point because he spoke on the subject, he said it here, and he only responded to it. We apologize, so if we can't even speak factually or in fact, then we have no democracy after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u17	Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Juchelka, because the President has withdrawn it. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u18	I will respond to my honored colleague from the Moravian-Silesian Region, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, to once and for all refute the lies that Babišův's government has done nothing in pension reform. You had at your megashow and press conference, which lasted for three hours, the chair of the Committee on Fair Pensions under Babišův's Government, Mrs. Danuša Nerudová, who brought the project and Babišův's government dealt with a pension reform right here in this committee, and I will quote the words of the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Marian Jurečka, directly from the press conference last Thursday. I quote: "Danuše Nerudová is also the one who has led the last expert committee to change pensions here in recent years, and we have not done this by building everything on a green meadow. We have taken the good things that have been worked out, on which there has been both professional and social agreement, and on the basis of these we have also built a draft pension reform, which I will be presenting in a moment." So that's about it, end of quote. Of course, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Marian Jurečka confessed to this, you had Danuša Nerudová, who was the head of the Permanent Commission on Fair Pensions in the Government of Andrej Babiš. Of course, the fact that it didn't work out is the second thing we admit, but it's not true, and it's a lie that Babišův's government hasn't done anything about pension reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u19	Minister Stanjura with a point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u20	Aleš Juchelka used his favorite insurance method, defined against something I didn't say. I said that in 2015 - this is in the previous term - Andrej Babiš here stepped out and said: I will bring you a draft pension reform. Some of them - I remember Martin Komárek, he got out right away and said, that's great. We say, we don't know if it's great, we haven't seen it yet. I didn't say the retirement committee didn't work. I think she's been working since Bezděk's first commission. But what did the government put in the Chamber of Deputies? That's what I'm asking. I wasn't talking about government advisory bodies, I'm not questioning that. I just remember it being under the baton of your coalition partner, and you didn't agree to it. I'm not questioning that. But the previous governments did not, in principle, bring anything in terms of pension reform between 2013 and 2021. I'm not saying that there was no debate, there was no discussion, there were no committees, there were advisory bodies, that's all true, why would we question it when our representatives went there, as your representatives are going to the same committee today. I was talking about whether we were legislatively discussing the draft pension reform, and I'm saying no. Those are the facts. I don't change anything. And I'm saying that doesn't give you the right to criticize what we're up to to understand each other. I just wanted us to compare the effort. And of course, it would be excellent for pension reform if we agreed with you on some points, because we remember that unfortunately the second pillar has been abolished, and I see shortcomings on our side, because if we could convince not 80, but 800 thousand citizens, it would be much worse politically than if there were only 80. [[1000]] So I'm looking for a mistake on my own before I say something wrong with my political opponent. That's all I meant by that remark. I just want to say that the topic of interpelation is government communication, and we're at - and I'm not saying that it's not a burning problem - for other burning problems. [[Time.]] That's all I was watching with that note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u21	I beg you to keep your time. Now, Mr Kašník, with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u22	Madam President, colleagues, colleagues, I will be very short indeed. I would stand up for you, Mr. Juchelka, who said we criticized that Babišův's government had done nothing. I think she's done a lot, and we have political costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u23	Mr Juchelka, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u24	Thank you very much. I will, of course, react only briefly but not even for two minutes, to Minister Stanjura, and thank him very much for the fact that we are actually about to change the communication return that Babišův's government has done nothing in pension reform. I'm very happy for that. The specific points he asked about, I'm going to say two, and that's that he changed the basic pension ratio from 9 to 10 percent by law. This means that, as this government seeks to make the pensions more equal or fairer, this has already happened in the past. For example, she gave 1,000 crowns to all seniors over the age of 85. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u25	Minister Stanjura, a point of fact. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u26	If we call it retirement reform, why not, but then don't say we're just making parametric changes in pension reform, okay? Let's all measure the same. But I got off on another note. We - and now I speak for the civil democrats - are seeking to preserve the element of solidarity and the element of merit. No increase, as you said, more equal pensions, that's not in our program. It's not how we understand the system. We want the merit element to be preserved, which is why we are proposing changes in the case of extraordinary valuation, when the element has been weakened, for quite logical reasons, so I think it is better to think about temporary social assistance in this case, which will not undermine the system of merit in the pension system. So that's just what I wanted to say so we could understand each other. I am not saying that other parties do not feel the same way as you described it, that an element of solidarity should be strengthened, not an element of merit. We think it's just right. Also, when we strengthened the element of merit, we responded then, more than ten years ago, to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which then decided that the element of merit was too small in the system. We're not suggesting an increase, just a preservation, just so we understand what the positions of the debate are. And I'm saying again that any extraordinary valorisation will be replaced by temporary social assistance. It seems more appropriate to us, because it establishes - if it were exceptional for the particular year, it is a different story - but we do not have to convince ourselves, Mr Member, through Madam President, that it establishes the basis for all the following years, and that is the problem, not in that particular one calendar year. And we are trying to do this in some way so that we do not interfere with the existing solidarity and merit ratio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u28	Thank you, Madam President. So I apologize to Minister Stanjur for not sticking to the point, but I was actually sticking to it. It's about communication, it's all about communication, and if communication were right and good to us and to citizens who understand everything, we wouldn't have to argue here today and we didn't have to discuss it. I think you've been blaming our government for how chaotic we are, how we can't communicate, one day it's said... It's chaotic for you, too. You release balloons, signals, but if it's clear to everyone, and that's what this communication is about, I don't think a lot of these posts need to be here. [[9.40 hours]] If you thought I wasn't on the subject where you spoke after me, I'm sorry, but the subject is communication, and this is all part of it. If it was clear, we wouldn't have to argue about it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u29	Minister Stanjura with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u30	I politely asked, it was no criticism, really, in general one can say that everything is about communication, and I agree with that, in the general family, it is not that we argue about it or argue about it, as Mrs Pastuchová said. I try to stick to the principle that when the government decides when it speaks, and you know it yourself from the coalition government, that it is not a trivial thing - until then I do not comment, when the government decides, explain, defend, make arguments, and either succeed with it or not. So I'm definitely not releasing any balloons. If one of my colleagues is doing this, then believe me, I'm criticizing them, because I agree that the worst is when individual members think out loud. It belongs to the meeting, that's okay, then the government agrees on something, then there is a legislative process going on where we are debating the opposition, among other things, and that's okay. So I personally try not to release any balloons, to contribute to it, and notice how in recent weeks I have not really acted on many speculations, many guaranteed information that will or will not be part of the recovery package. The moment we published it, I'm ready to explain all these steps, defend with greater or less success. That depends on how successful I will be in this effort, and whether the person I'm explaining it to has an understanding of the arguments or might have a stronger argument than we do. That was a really polite request, because I know there's a lot of these interpellings, and if we have two hours to discuss everything in the first place, then the others won't get into it, and that would be a great shame to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u31	That was the last point in fact so far, and we are now getting to the participants in the debate. With priority rights, Prime Minister Fiala, followed by Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u32	Yes, this interpelation is about communication, and it's certainly correct or logical that we're talking about certain types of communication, and that's just it. Communication, as someone said, is everything, and communication has different forms. Communication, of course, means a connection, so that communication works well, it is not enough that only the one who broadcasts it, but also those who accept it, and so on. And I completely understand the debate on government communication and I understand the questions, and I think it's perfectly correct and correct who decided that you have such strategic communication, how much it cost, and you have somehow measured, or you know that it had some impact, and so on. And those are the things I like to answer. I am, of course, happy, and am amused by such an intellectual debate, I will also discuss what communication is supposed to be and whether the opposition or the government leaders communicate well, but that is another discussion that is indeed about other communication and beyond what I think was followed by the initial interpellation by Mr Kolovratník. There was a remark, I don't know if it was Mrs Pastuchová, but I don't want to assign it to anyone that the Prime Minister should know everything. I'd like to fix that. The Prime Minister is responsible for everything, the Prime Minister is supposed to keep tabs on everything, but I think he'd be a monster if he knew everything in detail, or he'd be an extremely cocky person if he thought that. So, really, a lot of these specific things need to be known by those in charge, and I'm the one who's responsible for it, I'm not somehow disowning it. That is why I will also answer some of the things that have been said here from different areas. We do not question the problems of the labour authorities, since the first time we came to the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister Marian Jurečka has taken over the situation. It deals with various measures, including personnel, including very complex but high management exchanges. We are also continuing to digitize, and perhaps it would be good if you had such a common interest in the fate of the country, to ask yourself where you made the mistakes, why you handed it over to us in such a state, why the labour authorities looked like this, why some of the steps that might have already been taken in the past were not taken there. [[Announce in the ranks of members of the YES.]] As for the comment concerning my explanation of the Ministry of the Interior and the cartoon, I don't see any contradiction in it, and I'll tell you why, if there is no contradiction in it - the fact that I described to you very honestly how it was organized and financed doesn't change anything about the original statements that it was the decision of the Ministry of the Interior, and this responsibility, that no one even renounces. But if the question about how it is financed is organized, this is reality, and I think it's a very favorable reality for the state, and I don't see anything strange or contradictory about it. It was mentioned here that fuel prices in our country are low, among other things, because we have an exception in terms of Russian oil. So not only because we can't interpret it like that, they're low because we didn't hear the call for intervention, regulation, we're doing what some of the countries here have been given as an example, where the fuel wasn't there, and eventually the price isn't low. We've been doing very rational steps with excise taxes and margins and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and today we're glad that the price is this low. But I don't want to question it - because it turns out it's good for citizens and entrepreneurs, and it turns out that the road really works, which we went through, and we were right, and you were wrong. That's what I'm saying, and anyone can find out what anyone said a few months ago. As for the exception, yes, we have an exception, and that is precisely the result of our government's work at European level. I'm more asking why we didn't have exceptions to things in the past, why they weren't negotiated. We negotiated it, and we are pleased that we negotiated it, simply because otherwise we would not have coped with the situation, because in what state did we take over the energy security of the Czech Republic in the matter of key raw materials such as gas and oil? In gas 97 percent dependence on Russia, in oil over 50 percent. Nobody did anything about it. And that's 50 percent that's not otherwise replaceable. What did we do? Not only have we negotiated an exemption, but we have agreed with other states and entities to expand the TAL pipeline. This expansion has happened, and now we are working on the next step that - and I am very happy about it - continues successfully, or we have crossed the next line imaginary, and that is that we have consent to the expansion of the TAL pipeline to the TAL Plus pipeline, and that is exactly the way that will gradually rid us of our dependence on Russian oil, and these are the steps that our government is doing, which are verifiable, traceable, which we will certainly inform the public about, and we are doing this regularly, and that will lead to that dependence not being. And the second example, it's still - or it's already realized to the end, and that's getting rid of the dependence on Russian gas. A year ago, the dependence of the Czech Republic, and I think we agree, was 97 percent on Russian gas. We have managed to completely change this dependence within ten months, to remove it - today Russian gas accounts for 3 to 4 percent of our consumption. We bought the capacity in the terminal in Eemshaven, which at the moment is able to cover - the capacity - 40 percent of our annual consumption, and we are taking further steps that will lead to the gas being enough and that it will not be Russian gas. So much, ladies and gentlemen, for the various suggestions that have been made in this debate on government communication.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u33	Real points now - Mr Juchelka, followed by Mr Lang, Mrs Peštová and Vice-President Havlíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u34	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna be very brief -- about the employment offices, you know, I was sitting here in the middle of the House, when he was a covid, and the other half of the House could stay at home because we were acting halfway around here, and I never noticed any complaints coming to my e-mail, for example, about payouts from the covids that the government did. [[9.50 hours]] At this point, you have simply overwhelmed the employment authorities and delayed the benefits associated with the fact that people's leases are being canceled in the apartments, because there is no need to pay a housing allowance when the Czech Social Security Administration is coming - thanks to it, when she calculates old-age pensions lately, pensioners have to pay out payments to health insurance companies. You're having a riot here with the workers of the Labor Office because you're simply making a nonsense policy where you throw all your agendas at the workers of the Labor Office. Of course, digitalization doesn't work, it only works for clients, but, of course, digitalization doesn't help officials themselves, it makes their work difficult. And so we could go on and on and on. So I would beg you very much, Prime Minister, because you've already ruled the 21st month to stop making excuses for the previous government, because there are a lot of things that are happening at the moment, it's your fault. You who are doing a bad economic, inflationary policy, unfortunately against the citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u35	Mr Lang, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u36	Dear Prime Minister, I didn't want to perform, but when you return in your answers to the Ministry of the Interior and to the interpretation that was hanging there, that's the body bag with Putin - we tried to interpel the Home Secretary, we tried to ask the Security Committee who created it there, how it was created there. At first, the minister misunderstood that it didn't cost as much money, even if it wasn't one installation, it was supposed to be three, and then after some time we learned how much it cost. We were calling on the Minister of the Interior whether it would be worth paying for, for example, some nonprofit organizations and so on. So your answer is absolutely unsatisfactory and I fully understand that it is completely below your discernment of CZK 70,000, but for citizens nowadays, when everything is constantly getting more expensive, even highway signs and the like, CZK 70,000 times three, because originally the installations were three, as we have verified, there is not a lot of money. I think the Home Secretary has gotten a little out of hand. You're just a weak prime minister from my point of view, you're just a five-police government, you've got it stacked up, if the stanař stomped, you, of course, as a weak prime minister, and then it looks like you're the Home Secretary, who, from our point of view, is doing what he wants on the Ministry - shows some beginnings of the trial with our Prime Minister, he's solved some banners - some bags with Putin and so on. I would like to turn to my colleague Kašník, who said something here about the fact that the ODS has some heavy political points and losses for actually correcting mistakes for the previous government. You guys are like ODS, when I come across the biggest statutes, the government coalition, you embezzled to your constituents when you said you wouldn't raise taxes, that you'd be taking the next steps that the classic right-wing party doesn't do, but since you joined up, there's nothing else left for you to do, and that's why you embezzled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u37	Mrs Peštová, with a point of fact, is followed by Mr Havlíček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u38	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very quick. I would also like to respond to the Prime Minister about how nicely he praised himself here for negotiating an exception with regard to oil - if he realized that neither refinery was in Czech hands, first of all. So, basically, you're the exception... just to figure out where the money goes in the windfall tax. So when you negotiated that exception to the great companies that belong to the Polák here, and not to us, I'm just wondering how much windfall tax you're gonna get, if the oil is flowing from the Russian oil, how much will flow into the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u39	Now, Mr Havlíček, Minister Stanjura will prepare, so far we are in de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u40	Thank you. Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, about the gas. Your government's credit for the gas flowing to us is pure zero. Not because you don't want to, it's not about that. It's about the fact that you have no influence over it. Why? First, contracts are concluded from the vast majority of commercial companies, because you know that everything was privatized 20 years ago - it's not your fault, nor ours. And what ČEZ will possibly do is okay, he can make a contract with anyone, but that doesn't mean, please, that this gas is actually going to flow to us. The gas will always flow to us, which is mixed in German pipes, because the main pipeline leads to us from Germany. And if Nord Stream 1 doesn't work like it doesn't work and it's broken, it's totally obvious and it's clear that in German pipes, gas is mixed mainly from Norway or the Netherlands and so on. In other words, even if Nord Stream 1 works, it will again be mixed with Russian gas. We can talk about whether there'd be a 50, 70, 80 percent share. You won't affect it, you don't have a chance to do it, unless, of course, you're the ones that would crash the Nord Stream 1 gas, which I don't expect. We have already explained this to Minister Síkel, we have been alerted to this several times by energy experts, we have been alerted by the Demagog server that this is pure political marketing. Once again, this country has no influence on which gas will flow to us. Some companies have an influence on who they make a contract with. That's two completely different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u41	Minister Stanjura now, followed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u42	I wanted to respond to Mr Juchelka's speech, and he won't give it to me. It's quite smiling how pro-Russian politicians like Karel Havlíček
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u43	Please keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u44	Pro-Russian politicians like Karel Havlíček - how many times we have heard here that it is necessary for the Dukovany tender to take part in Rosatom, that it will be a competitive advantage and full of foreign words, just did not want to throw the Rus and the Číňan out of the tender. If it had not proved that the Russian Federation had committed a terrorist act on the territory of the Czech Republic, it would have defended it to this day, how excellent it is, how Putin has given us an excellent price and how we are compressing other people's offers. That must be said. What he said about the gas here is an extravagant opinion, and I wonder who else is in Europe besides Karel Havlíček. That means you order something, and you don't know what you're getting. That's Karel Havlíček's interpretation. He may believe it, but he just doesn't. We've cut ourselves off from Russian gas and we're doing everything we can to cut ourselves off from Russian oil. That's it. And now to Mr Juchelek: I think we should have a serious debate about the task of the Labour Office in the future. I am not happy with this model, I think that much more work in the field of social investigations should be carried out by self-government and their authorities, which know the territory best of all. The model has been chosen, I'm not happy with it, and let's talk about it. It's so brave to criticize the digitization of labor authorities at the same time that we'd make it worse, so you're right. And then just the math. We joined December 17, 2021, today is May 18, 2023, it is 17 months. Aleš Juchelka says it's been 21 months. It's with the numbers in the YES movement as usual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u45	Thank you for keeping time. Prime Minister Fiala with a factual remark, followed by Mr Mašek and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u46	First of all, I will comment on Mr Juchelek, who I have had a significant tendency to use demagogically false claims some time ago. Mr President, through Madam President, try to look at articles relating to the authorities of work under your government. In two seconds, I have listed, for example, one from October 2020, where it is said that the collapse of labour offices is to be avoided due to the payment of doses in coronavirus, for which entitlement is assessed every quarter of a year. The employment offices in mid-October lacked about a tenth of the employees, there were major problems at the employment offices, to pay sixteen kinds of social benefits. Director General of the Labour Office Viktor Najmon appealed to citizens to consider a personal visit to the Labour Office. Then I could go on. Yes, this was at the time of the coronavirus, or some of the problems to be correct, were caused by the epidemic, but the fact that there were problems at the employment offices can be traced back to your government is common in the media. I suggest you conduct a media search like this. [[10.00 hours]] As far as refineries, petrol and oil are concerned. Well, we don't care about the Polish refinery owner. We can have fun here -- that's also an interesting debate -- why it's like that, how the Polák got it, who, for example, plays a part in it. I'd love to have this conversation with you, but another time. But we took care of Czech citizens, that Czech citizens would have petrol and diesel and did not happen what happened in other countries where they realized the recipes that you recommended. So we took care of Czech citizens in particular and we are glad that we have secured everything. As far as gas is concerned, I would advise Mr Havlíček not to comment. He doesn't understand, and he's just being ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u47	I beg you to keep your time. Now, Mr Mašek, with a point of fact. Mr. Havlíček follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would first go to Minister Stanjur, through you. The Minister first trained us here to do what we can talk about here in fact, to stick to the subject, and suddenly he flew off and marked my colleague Mr. Havlíček with a pro-Russian politician. Is that what you're saying, who could immediately operate the anti-Russian system in some way, perhaps abandoning the Russian gas exemption? You won't do it, because quietly it suits you, because it lowers our price. So if it's convenient, we'll let it go, even if someone else negotiated it. If it's not right, we just don't do it, and we argue that only 3 percent of Russian gas flows in here. You know that's not true, because it's being re-built with the gas, driving the Russian gas around. He's taking India, China, and you don't even know about his movements, we're eating it here. At the same time, we were lucky to have a mild winter. Our people are saving, they saved, they saved companies, they act completely natural. The only thing we've made worse is the environment, 'cause the poor people here burned the whole winter that attacked them. You must have seen that when you and your limos drove off the freeway. So I'd stick to the subject, really the one that fell here. Another thing that was here. You guys were sneaking around for energy and everything. You guys did it by doing nothing. Because you didn't react at all, and it's gonna turn out somehow. But the result is that the energy unsolved by you, e.g. by ceilinging electricity from manufacturers... We could have had five percentage points of lower inflation here the whole time. But they're just gonna kidnap it and pay it. That's your policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u49	Vice-President Havlíček is now taking action, followed by Mrs Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u50	Mr. Finance Minister, you're not very good at managing finance. When we look at the results, it's a disaster. If you're still discussing energy, then it's a complete disaster. Please take a look at some information. It's nothing personal, it's just a fact. We'll discuss the finances, I'll tell you why you're not good at it. I will tell you why we are almost the worst in Europe, and you will certainly argue and I think it will be quite a substantive discussion. Just look at the gas infrastructure, just read a few professional articles. Now it's not that anyone wants or doesn't want any Russian gas or Russian oil. You know very well that it is not. You know very well because I think you're a relatively intelligent person. But if you're gonna show the past here, fine, then let's talk about it. Let's talk about how the Temelín tender was going on. Let's see how the government in which you were, where Prime Minister Fiala, who had another member of this government, allowed Rosatom to reach the finals. You let him get there from my point of view pragmatically. You let him get there because you were pushing the price back then. So, please, if you want to talk about it, let's open it up and make one argument at a time. I don't want to be offensive to you because what you said is completely ridiculous, Prime Minister. Please sweep your own doorstep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u51	Now, then, President Schillerová, followed by Mr Bžoch. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u52	I couldn't take it again. I didn't want to perform today. Well, I think this lovely debate here has shown what sparrows are chirping about on the roof, who is actually Prime Minister of this government. I think we all see it, who speaks into everything, who expresses everything, who has been everywhere and knows everything. It's just the finances, the finances, he's really not good at that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u53	Mr Bžoch, Mr Brabec follows, in fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister Stanjur, before you accuse anyone of being a pro-Russian politician, kindly sweep your own doorstep. Neither was former Prime Minister Babiš, nor was Minister Havlíček, who went to Russia and worshiped Putin when they needed something from him. They were your two former premieres.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u55	Mr Brabec, followed by Mr Juchelka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u56	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, guests, spectators. Minister, well, you did it cleverly, because, of course, with the provocation, you knew that some of us would sign up, and that probably doesn't get into any more interpelations that you're not entirely comfortable with. But I was also pissed off by the mention of a pro-Russian politician, because -- that's exactly what it said here -- you guys are up to 10. 5. -250 billion state budget deficits. You never answered my questions about how the Ministry of the Environment's budget got those outrageous 50 billion revenue. You always slipped away when I asked you that. I remember you as the leader of the ODS opposition club, which, if it were in the opposite guard, would really hang here by the ceiling and not let us leave before we answer that question. So if I were you, I would really stick to the things that you have right in the gesture and that really don't work. I'll go back to that, if you say that Mr. Havlíček is a pro-Russian politician, which I think is completely outrageous, you are the anti-Czech government for a lot of people in this state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u57	Mr Juchelka, followed by Prime Minister Fiala, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u58	Thank you very much. I think it's totally pointless to always stir up the debate by someone telling the truth in half or something. So yes, Prime Minister, when it comes to paying benefits at the employment offices, of course there are always problems in individual organizations, departments and so on, but we have never been late a day for any citizen, unlike you. Just because there are problems doesn't mean they haven't been prevented because they've been prevented. Of course, we paid social security benefits on time. The best defense is attack. That means, we're gonna label, we're gonna say who's ever been wrong about four months here. I think, Minister Stanjur, that you should somehow wipe your numbers at the Ministry of Finance, because you just haven't worked since the beginning of your reign. We still have a novel here, and you're always saying how we're down. So this government's communication. I think - and I'm giving you good advice - that you should focus on this here. We have one of the highest inflations in the European Union, we have the third highest energy price according to Eurostat, which the Prime Minister does not like, the statistics, because they are clear numbers, we have one of the most expensive food in Europe, we have lack of medicines and we have the highest budget deficits since 1989. Focus on communication here, because this is really one of the worst governments since 1989. Here, this list, this de facto list of how this government rules, I think you can only defend by making a real policy for people. You don't do that for now. I think that one of the highest inflation and most expensive energies in Europe is clear evidence that you are a government that is simply inflationary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u59	Now, with the Prime Minister's point of fact, followed by Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u60	So what are the facts? You don't like it, you like the labeling and you use it all the time. But what are the facts? How did we take over the energy security of the Czech Republic after Mr Havlíček, the government of Andrej Babiš? 100% or 97% dependence on Russian gas, more than 50% dependence on Russian oil, virtually no impact on energy infrastructure. No tender has been written on the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant. We all know, and we agree on that, and thank you for that, that the core, nuclear energy, is future, absolutely essential for the future development of our energy, our industry, to ensure sufficient energy. The neglected transport infrastructure, nothing has moved forward, the lack of money for transport infrastructure over the vast years of the boom - these are specific traceable facts and results of your operation. And with the gas, please, don't be ridiculous. The important thing is, from whom and how the gas is bought, and then there is another technical process that has some reasons, but that we buy gas from countries that are clearly not Russia, that's just a fact. And that's how everyone who really understands it, looks at it and has to look at it. In Eemshaven, where we have 40 percent of the annual consumption, we have no gas from Russia. As far as energy prices are concerned, I am pleased that Mr Juchelka mentioned it here, because once again we can say it, there is a clear agreement between the Czech Statistical Office, the Energy Regulatory Office and all distributors, that the prices published by Eurostat do not correspond to what citizens pay in the Czech Republic. When we looked at the real prices and the negotiations that I called for, it turned out that the prices of energy paid by Czech citizens and companies belong to the cheaper half of Europe. [[Time!]] That's reality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u61	Minister Stanjura with a point of fact, followed by Vice-President Havlíček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u62	More facts, then. I think that the important parameter is always the general government deficit against GDP every year. 2020: 5,8%; 2021: 5,1, 2022: 3.6, 1,5 percentage points downwards, roughly 100 or 105 billion GDP. In the logic of ANO mathematics, debt is 5,8% better than debt 3.6 percent. Back to primary school for first degree! 5.1 is a higher number than 3.6. We are planning 1.8 next year when the recovery package starts to work, and in 2025: 1.2. Nobody's questioning that, just for you, 5,8 is a lower number than 3.6 or 1.8 or 1.2. The gas was dragged into the debate, Mr Mašek, through Madam President, your Vice-President Karel Havlíček. I reacted, I spoke after him, after he couldn't resist here again to explain his pro-Russian policy over the years. And if you do not distinguish relations with Russia from the annexation of Crimea before 2014 and after, then you are making a mistake, because if you say that the premieres of the Czech Republic have maintained relations with Russia before the annexation of Crimea, that is true. The whole world kept them, but it was before Crimea's annexation, so we have to tell each other, and it was in 2014. So I think this is appropriate, and I think we have quite a consensus at least in this parliamentary term in foreign policy regarding the relations of the Czech Republic with Russia. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u63	Now, Vice-President Havlíček, in fact, is followed by President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u64	Prime Minister, you're getting very involved. But you said one thing, and that fact wasn't a lie, and I must appreciate that, and that is that the impact on energy infrastructure is virtually zero. Let's see who privatized CEZ here, see how the privatisation of gas infrastructure took place, see how refineries were sold and so on. You're right, for more than 20 years, the state is supposed to have virtually zero influence. Transport infrastructure, Prime Minister? When we took over transport structures after your famous government in 2014 - I was not there - 800 meters of highways were built, you can hear, 800 meters of highways. And we have been underestimating it, handing over it and building more than 100 kilometers of highways, only in the last year 2021 we started 94 kilometers of new motorways and finished - the opposite - we completed 94 kilometers and we started 74 kilometers. We have increased expenditure on transport infrastructure from 87 billion in two years to 120 billion crowns. To say that we didn't do anything for the core is the height of insolence, don't be angry with me, because we prepared the core on the investment side, on the contractual side, we prepared the core on the basis of the amendment of the law. We prepared the core so that you did one thing, and that's that you gave the tender, which we didn't have time to do. Everything was set up three years before, all set. And as for the purchase of gas - yes, that's right. Buying gas - look who bought gas here, what companies. Nobody bought gas from Russia, for God's sakes, they all bought gas from Germany. But the fact that Russian gas ran into Germany is another matter that neither you nor we can influence. All the companies that bought gas here bought gas from German wholesalers, with the only exception of small quantities bought ČEZ from Russia, but it was really very, very little, if I recall. So it follows that the Czech buyer has no influence on whether or not such gas comes here. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u65	Now, then, President Schillerová, followed by Mr Brabec, and I beg you to respect the two-minute limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So, Minister, and you have, you've always liked nominal debt, if I recall, Minister of Finance, through Madam President, I'll remind you: last year, 429 billion, this year, 200 billion, and the revenue you received from inflation, and now I'm taking 2023 versus 2021, is 534 billion extra. You chose 2020 when the biggest decline in the economy was -5.5 percent of GDP, ever in modern history. So, if I were you, I wouldn't be a big deal, through Madam President, I'd admit with great humility that you still have that 150 billion budget going in there, and that you still can't do without an amendment for 2023. As far as your tax package is concerned, through the President - because it is not a consolidation package, it is a tax package - we will see how much and how it will be, because you have nothing. You don't have any legislative text, it didn't go through a commentary procedure, no one really knows what's in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u67	Mr Brabec followed by Minister Stanjura with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u68	Thank you. Well, one more question, that is, in the debate on Prime Minister Fiala, who here spoke about the state of energy security they took over. When you were such visionaries, Prime Minister, and I would also acknowledge the debate about the annexation of Crimea, or the annexation of Crimea, after the annexation of Crimea, but when you were such visionaries in the previous opposition, which, of course, was after the annexation of Crimea, so how many topics were there from the point of view of the opposition, and especially the ODS, about how we are in an energy danger and that we should do some replacement gas and oil supplies quickly? I don't remember him. Correct me if I'm wrong about how many extraordinary meetings were here, how many of these debates were here, how are we supposed to do it here to get some other gas or some other oil in here, and let's say, and it's already happened x-times: we don't really own much of it except for a few gas tanks that CEZ has, but the pipes, both the big ones and the gas lines, we know that they either have Polák or, respectively, the Němec or the Maďar or the Polák. That means, without these countries, it would be very, very, very complicated - and you knew it well - to do some separate action. [[10.20 hours]] So now it's really, really, really hypocritical to say that you knew those things. And if you knew, why didn't you warn them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u69	Minister Stanjura with a point of fact, followed by Prime Minister Fiala. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u70	Unfortunately, Mr Brabec is wrong. Those magazines do not belong to anybody, such as ČEZ, in which CEZ has an over-half stake. It's not true. When the MP and Vice-President Karel Havlíček talk about how we do not have energy infrastructure and who privatized it, he is right. But he was your political ally, Miloš Zeman. He was selling RWEs, which means both storage tanks and gas pipelines. Or him - his government. His government privatized Unipetrol. And I don't want to go back to the one who signed the contract twice and then resigned from it, and now he says that... I am not happy about this, but it was not the ODS governments - neither the privatization of RWE, nor the privatisation of Unipetrol. We inherited it. We're trying to do something about it, and that's the fact that we inherited it. We can comment on that, but that's a fact. It was not easy to obtain the consent of the TAL+ shareholders. I think who ever acted or had information about how the general meetings were going... But while we're at it, how is it possible for your governments to sign new words with Unipetrol from which the inflation clause was removed? Excerpted! How is that possible? Who agreed? An inflation clause! And it doesn't matter if it was low or not. So imagine, to this day, we don't have an inflation clause, because to change that, there have to be two sides. I understand the supplier doesn't want the inflation clause, but you caused it to disappear from the agreement where the inflation clause was, and it didn't go without the agreement of the Czech party. Then somebody tell me about it! How could you let that happen?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u71	Now Prime Minister Fiala with a point of fact, followed by Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u72	I think that when someone gets upset, it usually shows that the arguments run out. I'm not upset about your notes to my address, which are sometimes disrespectful, but I'm sure of what we're doing, so I'll take it with a smile. Vice-President Havlíček did not. But let's talk business. I think, of course, we can go into the past and what did anyone say, as Mr Brabec mentioned here, but our government, when we entered or took responsibility, we immediately started taking steps to strengthen energy security. That is why we started to discuss the purchase of capacity in the LNG terminal in the spring. If we hadn't started right away, I'm sure we couldn't. And just because we started in time to take care of energy security, we have a capacity that covers 40 percent of our annual consumption in the Netherlands. It was also our government that immediately proceeded to announce the tender for the completion of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant. This is another concrete step, and there we insisted very consistently from the opposition that Russian and Chinese companies be excluded from the tender, you will remember that. We talked about it, we talked about it publicly, and it was our pressure that Russian and Chinese companies wouldn't be there. I don't want to go back to the past, why we had a Norwegian gas contract before, and then it didn't, and so on, that's really for another debate, but I want to end up positive. We really are in a situation where the state has little control, now I don't mean just owning, over energy infrastructure. The problem appears more strongly now after the energy crisis, and I think we need to change that. We will take steps to change that, and I hope that we will reach consensus in this and we will have your support. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u73	Mr Feranec, followed by Vice-President Havlíček with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would recommend, in response to the Prime Minister's speech, to take a look at the item we are discussing. It's a point of reply to the written interpelation of the Prime Minister. It's May 2023, the seventeenth month, there's a government here, and you're making it an interview on Babiš, on Havlíček, on Zeman with your answers. So let's get back to that principle, because otherwise you're a little disparaging of the institute. After all, the institute is for the House, especially the opposition, to ask the government and the government to answer, and you are making it something else. You're reducing the institute a little, or you don't want to answer the questions that concern you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u75	Now, therefore, with a factual remark, Vice-President Havlíček, followed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u76	Thank you. You guys are always gonna take a nice piss on another topic, so you're gonna say the transport infrastructure was badly prepared. If we make an argument by making it a better order, you'll skip to something else. But to the addiction, or rather to the fact that the state has no influence on the energy infrastructure. That's what the Minister of Finance said right, who put it in place here, but let's play it all over again. Electrical system, or ČEZ - privatisation in the 1990s. The ODS was behind all this. As far as gas and refineries are concerned, if I am not mistaken, it was indeed ČSSD, but it was, among other things, at the time of the obsommy, that is, once again, the ODS was standing there. So let's not pretend you didn't exist here. There was no YES movement at the time. And then let's not forget another thing. Renewables also play a very important role in this today. So let's see who ruled here between 2006 and 2010, and look who was one of the players in the solar tunnel for 600 billion crowns. And if you want, that's how we'll discuss everything. And one last thing about the nucleus. Let's do this one more time, no matter who finally delivers. If we hadn't dug up the core again, if we hadn't prepared all the contracts, if we hadn't secured the investment model, the financial model, if we hadn't secured the supply model, if we hadn't changed the law, if we hadn't negotiated it at European Union level, where then you rudely came up with the fact that you secured the so-called taxonomy, although the European Commission was declared 31. 12. 2021, when you were in the government for two weeks with Christmas, and it was the result of two years' work, and not only the Czech Republic, but France, so the only thing you should have done, and thank God you did it, even if it was delayed, is that you sent it to the supplier. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u77	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, followed by Prime Minister Fiala - with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u78	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to respond to the Prime Minister's words, which said here: The arguments are running out, let us have a momentary conversation. I think this interpelation is mainly about communication, and, above all, the interpellation is about the Minister of the Interior and yours, Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, the first vice-premier to represent you in many matters, and I must say that his communication and communication of the entire government is really tragic. I was here yesterday at the House plenary because we had a state enterprise law here recently when the Home Secretary wanted to discuss this law in the '90s. The Minister of the Interior doesn't communicate with anyone, yet this entire government doesn't communicate with anyone. Such a typical example is that you have changed your programming statement, but you did not make the current version of this House, nor did you or your first vice-premier Vít Rakušan. That's why my colleague's interpellation, and that's why we all know what caused the flag hanging on the Home Office building. The fact that the Home Secretary creates some KRIT at his resort doesn't tell anyone about it, he chooses a person without a tender, how he communicates Czech mail now, and what is happening at the Home Department is absolutely tragic. [[10.30 hours]] I particularly consider the conduct of this government that it not only does not communicate, but that the government is above all very arrogant. And that's what we saw here today on live air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u79	Prime Minister Fiala, with a point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u80	I think we all have different ideas about arrogance, and I don't know what my communication is arrogant about. But please, I'll let you have that opinion. And here you are - now I wasn't thinking about Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, but in general extra notes - you have learned here, and I noticed it some time ago, constantly reprimanding us for how we answer, but leave that to us and leave it to our voters, whether they judge whether we answer correctly or not. It's not your job to judge the quality of our answers - just because you don't like the fact that we say that we can argue factually that we are a lot of things that you haven't been able to move with, so we've been able to move them forward. I know you don't like it. And I don't even take it from you to tell us that you don't like it. But I don't like it when you say, "Don't answer that. You're not supposed to say that here. You're supposed to respond to interpelation and not comment at all on what's been here in the past and so on. To use your words, I'm not in the habit - don't censor us like this, we'll answer as we see fit. That's democracy, and that's the right thing to do. As for some of the things that have yet to be said here, I want to set them straight. Taxonomy, Mr. Vice-President Havlíček? What was it? Let's take a look. One of the first steps I took was to contact the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and I began to convince the Commission, which was not prepared to do so in order to get the core into taxonomy. It got there. Then we had to put up a big fight so it wouldn't be eliminated again. And I had to seduce one of the great fights in the European Parliament, too, so that the taxonomy would eventually be approved with the core. It is the result of our government's work, it is absolutely verifiable and I am pleased that it has succeeded because it is important for the Czech Republic and for our good future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, have a good morning. The Prime Minister's appearance raised a number of factual points. First, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will speak, then Mr Martin Kolovratník, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u82	My point of fact was not raised by the Prime Minister's speech, I have already applied in advance. I don't know. You ask us questions, we answer, and then somebody says we're know-it-all. But if I don't answer, I'm arrogant not to answer. We did not bring the other topics instead of the topics that Mr Kolovratník had in the interview. We weren't the first to talk about them. I politely asked us to stick to the subject. That's what I've been begging to master someone here. I really said, "I politely ask you to consider sticking to the subject, it's a shame he won't get to the others." But when you bring in other topics, you ask questions on other topics, we answer. And then you say to me again, "Why do you answer?" Well, we're defensemen, you're attackers at this point. Interpelation is not one-sided discipline that the opposition will come, criticize the government, lower the government's ears, say nothing, and leave. I think it's fair that you're criticizing us or asking us questions, so we answer, and by the way, we're putting together a time series of circumstances, and the facts are clear. None of the numbers we mentioned in this debate were questioned by any of you. Yes, we can argue about the interpretation of numbers, that's perfectly normal, but the numbers haven't been questioned, and I think that's important in a debate like this. I thought the question of energy security was something that connects us, but after today's debate, I'm not entirely sure, and it would be a terrible shame, because these are things that have no overlap for one or two parliamentary periods, but much, much longer. I hope that we will find a consensus on this issue and that, in the end, the contradictions will not be as great in this particular area as it might seem from today's debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u83	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Martin Kolovratník, and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u84	I was trying to hold on to the de facto one, and I was expecting a normal entry into the interpelration. I didn't see this coming. So I'm gonna try to keep up the comms so I can keep up the subject, like I called my interpelation. Zbyněk Stanjura: "Our pre-election tax password was just a billboard shortcut." Fiala didn't lie, he just said something he couldn't do," explains Minister Blažek. That's the communication, my fellow Members, that's what I'm trying to point out - the way you communicate. And, you know, I wanted to be friendly, I wanted to keep it on a material level, and I agreed for a while with what Zbyněk Stanjura said. I guess it's logical, the topic of communication is awfully wide. And, yeah, he opens up social things, he opens up energy, he opens up food, and so on and so forth. But again, please look at the communication. Stanjura here - it was somewhere an hour ago - appealed, begged us not to get involved in other topics. That's what I was thinking, actually, there's something about it that he's saying. The minute Prime Minister Fiala finds out, he's gonna make a fool out of all of us, and he's gonna attack us. And that, Prime Minister, is your communication, that is the style - the best defense is the attack. And, you know, I'm gonna give you some advice on the communication - I'm not gonna be friendly anymore. In my opinion, it would be better not to go around the world so much, not to take trips, but perhaps also to go around people the way the YES movement does, as each of us and our shadow government do when you talk to them, and then you might learn and find that people were quite afraid for their future before your package, but now they are already terrified of it. First of all. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] And second of all, let me keep this communication going, let me move on. I was gonna give space to another one on the agenda today, so I'm gonna ask. I ask one thing: how will you communicate your government package? How and when will you introduce him to the Members? How and when will you introduce him to the public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u85	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Havlíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u86	Thank you. On the contrary, I am glad, Mr Kolovratník, that it has opened up here. I'm getting texts from those who are watching us right now, especially from the energy sector, and I'd rather not even interpret what they're writing to you. It is very good that government leaders, even headed by the Prime Minister, have expressed how energy should work, how it works, who is responsible, what relationships are there. I think everyone who understands at least a little bit has made a clear picture. And speaking of energy security, which we probably agree on, let's just remember that energy security is about prices, it's about diversification of resources, and it's about a lot of resources. And speaking of prizes, please just remember it one more time. We have the highest increase in energy prices throughout the European Union, we have the highest increase in electricity prices and the second highest increase in gas prices. I know you're gonna question all the agencies that did it again, but that's just a fact, you can't talk about this. You're in a critical situation, and instead of dealing with it, instead of saying, "Yes, we made a mistake, instead of finally throwing out the incompetent Minister Síkela, instead of doing something that will stabilize the market a little bit, all you're trying to do is show who's responsible for everything. But, Prime Minister, no one can hear that anymore. No one can hear from Antibabiš anymore. Everyone's already looking at what you're doing. Everyone's watching you take the responsibility you've taken into your own hands. Nobody forced you to rule, you made a decision, you made a choice. We all see the result here. It can't get any worse, Prime Minister, and there's nothing to talk about, which at least ends the beautiful energy debate for me. I'm sure we'll talk about it again sometime. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u87	Another factual remark from the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u88	It can't get any worse, they're texting me from energy, driving people... Are those arguments? No, they're not arguments. But of course, please, we have reactions from people, we travel among people. A lot of people, you'll be surprised, they understand the need for savings, they understand that there's a need to do something about a retirement system that's going into disaster, and you can't lie or shut up about having government responsibilities here for eight years. Just a lot of the things we do go back many years, so that's what we need to do with pension reform. Why didn't you? Why didn't you do the great retirement reform? Why didn't you do something with the fastest growing deficit in Europe? Why didn't you do something about energy security? Why didn't you do something about the transport infrastructure so we could be better off? Then I could go on. Those things are just connected. If you ask us questions, we answer them, we say what our government is doing, but we also mention problems that are long-term and that we simply have to solve. If you were to deal with them, we'd have made the situation easier. We don't have it easy, we don't cry about it, we do things. And as I described it to you with gas, oil, core construction, transport infrastructure, and more, we'll move on. Regarding the question of how we will communicate the austerity package: we are communicating it in these days, but, of course, the legislative form of the proposal will come to the Chamber of Deputies in the standard way, we will discuss it here as we discuss other things, and it will not get out of hand with what is common in democracy, and those processes will be as they should be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u89	Thank you. We have therefore exhausted the factual points and I note here the proper application of Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u90	Thank you, and I'll try to end the debate so he can get to somebody else. I take it that the Prime Minister has said in a very general manner: there will be proper trials, there will be House press from the government here in the House. So I didn't actually know anything. So there will probably be no new website, there will be no signpost, no clear explanation of all the individual moments of the austerity package. And so I, in accordance with § 112 para. In conclusion, I propose a resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the response to this written interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u91	Thank you, I have noted the motion for your resolution. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. The motion for a resolution has been loaded, and I will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution. [[There's a card tap.]] I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin. I will vote on Martin Kolovratník's proposal and his interpellation to the Prime Minister. I've already checked you out, co-workers, co-workers, recently. Isn't the system working yet? Okay, I'll check you out one more time. [[Laughter and applause for Members on the left.]] I cannot vote if one of the Members reports problems with the voting system. [[The noise in the hall.]] I am opening the vote and I ask who is with the motion for a resolution that Mr Kolovratník disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting time: adopted. It is a vote with order number 86, 115 Members are registered, for proposal 58, against 55. [[Let's hear it for Members on the left. Member Michálek reporting, Members on the left are laughing.]] This is President Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u92	Sorry. My voting device didn't work. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u93	Okay, there's a motion to challenge the vote. [[Objection by opposition Members that this will not affect the outcome.]] We have an objection to this. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 87, with 114 Members registered, for proposal 90, against 10. This objection has been accepted. In that case, I shall vote repeatedly on the motion for a resolution. Excuse me, please vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u94	I, Mr President, would like to object to your action, because if you look at the gypsy, Mr Michálek has voted, and he has abstained in the vote. That means his voting device must have worked. It's clear on the list that's under the vote. I don't know how you should prove to us at this point that your voting device didn't work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u95	Of course, I have no problem voting on my progress. Anyway, I want to ask if Mr. Michálek can answer your question, or should I take a direct vote? [[Member Michálek is reporting for word.]] Please, Prime Minister Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u96	Thank you for the floor. Please, the vote is either in favour or against, or someone will abstain. If there's a "stop" on your head, and I vote against it when I press against it, that's not a valid vote. There came a colleague when the President said no, so I voted against.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u97	Colleagues and colleagues, there has been a challenge to the vote, and I have put it to a vote and the vote has been called into question. If a colleague of Michálek says he voted against, but he was "staying" at the junkyard, there is a different act of will than he wanted to take the vote, it is entirely appropriate that he challenged the vote as such. I would like to ask Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová - the next step will be either to vote again on the resolution or to object to the President's procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u98	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I think what Mr. Michálek said here at the moment, if I vote against or abstain, is exactly the same. It's just the same. You can't question that in quotes such a vote to say that your voting device didn't work. I'd like to ask my colleagues here in the past term to look at the camera footage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u99	At this point, there is no discussion, only procedural proposals can be made. This means that it is possible to speak only with priority rights. I'm thinking about how to deal with this situation because you're asking for a review of the camera system... Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u100	I would like to calm the situation, even if the Vice-President should not give the floor to the Member, because she has no priority right, we are not in the debate and she has not taken a vote, so even a reminder of the proceedings would be appropriate in this regard, which I will not raise. [[10.50 hours]] But I would like to ask the lady in this case to respect that the opinion is expressed by the vote on the objection. This was voted on, she could vote on the objection that she was against such a procedure, that is her full right, and then goes on to vote according to its result. Objection was mostly accepted. They may not all like it, they expressed it in the vote, but it is a very clear result of the vote on the objection and it is common practice that it follows immediately after the same vote. That means, yes, President Michálek was able to formulate his objection for the first time, or a complaint to vote probably a little better, that is true, I acknowledge that, because at first he said only that the vote did not work, he did not say how it came out on the high, but then he specified it. I think that explains all this, that the objection was voted on. And, Vice-President, you really should put your vote now on the repetition of this vote, because there is no other way to proceed, otherwise we will always be very benevolent to the Rules of Procedure and to those who do not have the right to speak at such a moment, and that is simply the case with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u101	I just want to say, for the record, that in the course of the vote, if anyone has any doubts, they can come forward with a challenge to the vote. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u103	I just, Madam President, make a procedural proposal or, if necessary, make a proposal so that I can put my vote to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u104	I, with priority rights, believe that I can speak, Mr Vice-President. Let's reunite this once, because you've been leading me to order here for several times, for example, when trying to put a point on the agenda, and then it's tolerated by other managers. So I would like to comment on what has been said. If the Prime Minister thinks, by your means, that she's calmed it down, she hasn't calmed it down for me at all, not at all, not at all, and I'd like to end it. I think that if President Michálek voted against or abstained, it does not matter at all, it has no bearing on the outcome of the vote, and each of us - even him - is responsible for the level of embarrassment he is showing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u105	My next move will be as follows. My colleague Michálek raised an objection or challenged the vote, this objection was accepted. I shall put it to the vote again on the resolution. For the sake of order, I say - if the result does not correspond to the will of the Member - and it does not matter whether he has abstained or opposed, but it does not correspond to his will - he has the right to question the vote, and it does not matter. That is, I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kolovratník that he does not agree with the Prime Minister's response to his intervention, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 88, 128 Members are registered, for proposal 59, against 65. This proposal has not been agreed with. And I'm opening another interpelation, another written interpelation. Minister Jana Černochová responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation in the case of the ukvapený... [[Member Růžička reports for the floor. Members are calling from the benches.]] I'm sorry, I missed you, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to question the vote. I was pressing the voting device, and there was nothing on my head - and I was logged in. Thank you. So I couldn't show my will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u107	I want to ask: do you want the functionality of the voting device to be checked or are you simply questioning the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u108	Yes, I said at the beginning that I was questioning the vote, that I was pressing on the voting device, and this voting device did not respond, so I could not show my will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u109	Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u110	Third time, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u111	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of questioning the vote? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 89; 132 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 128, against 1. I'm of the opinion that the opposition has been approved. I shall therefore repeat the vote. [[Knocking cards in the desks.]] I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. I'm going to ask you to re-engage and, if any, to tell you if someone's voting device is working. [[Noise in the hall.]] It seems that the number of applicants has stabilized, so I will repeat one more thing that I will put to the vote. Mr Martin Kolovratník intersected Prime Minister Petr Fiala and proposed a resolution that he did not agree with his response. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 90, with 131 Members registered, for proposal 63, against 67. This motion for a resolution has been rejected. So before I go on, I want to ask if anyone is questioning the vote, or can I continue? Looks like no one's questioning the vote, and in that case, I'm going back to the point I had open. Minister of Defence Jana Černochová also responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation in the case of the ukvapený conclusions of missile intervention in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 364. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 9 and 23 February and 20 April 2023 in the presence of the Minister of Defence. We are therefore continuing the debate. I ask the honourable Member if he is taking part in the debate? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u112	Thank you. ministryně Černochová seems to me to continue to be hasty, I do not know where she is on the road today, therefore, Mr President, I beg the interruption of this interpelation until the next time the Minister is present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u113	Okay, well, I'm interrupting this interpellation to the presence of Secretary Jana Černochová. In addition, Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Ms Jana Pastuchová's interpellation on the matter Missing government deputy security clearances at the Ministry of Health at the level of "confidential." Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 388. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 23 February and 20 April 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. We will therefore continue the debate now, and I am merely announcing that at 11 o'clock I will be forced to interrupt this interpelation. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm so sad because the first time I got my turn, I had two minutes, and today it's the same. I've had the interpellation written since October 18, 2022. Today could have been just the annual day of seven months. It's true that we didn't meet because of my illness and then because of the Prime Minister's absence from work, so in two minutes, I'm sure I can't express what I wanted. I suppose it won't be another seven months or five when it's my turn, 'cause the interpelling's really slow here. So I'm just going to sum up what was going on in the October interview, and I was looking forward to having the Prime Minister tell me that everything was resolved, and that I could close it. I have turned to the Prime Minister on the absence of security clearances to the degree of "confidential" with the Deputys of a member of the government, political deputy, Mr Jakub Dvořáček and Mr Josef Pavlovic, who are active at the Ministry of Health. These representatives did not have the security clearance provided for by the internal regulation of the Ministry of Health, and as the Prime Minister replied to me, I was not satisfied with it, so I turned to him this way. [[11.00 hours]] I will take that minute - for a brief recap, I dare say that I was based on an investigative article by journalist Bazalová, who has just pointed it out. I'm sure I'm gonna keep going, but I don't know when I'm gonna get back to this interpellation, so I know that would be directed at Minister Válek. When the Prime Minister told us that he really couldn't know everything, I'd really like to know next time that they have the "confidential" clearance because I don't think the average time for approval is one and a half years, almost two years since these Deputys are there. [[Your time.]] I'll continue next time, and I'll be glad to get a positive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u115	And I thank you for your helpfulness, Madame. Since it's 11 o'clock, I'm interrupting this written interpelation and ending this block. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, we should now look at paragraph 96, this is the House press 433, the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, it is a contract at first reading, and then we should discuss points from the Law block - second reading, in this order: paragraph 8, House printing 371, the Government Bill on Preventive Restructuring; paragraph 9, House printing 372, the Amendment to the Insolvency Act; paragraph 3, House printing 347, the Government Bill on the abolition of obsolete legislation; paragraph 4, House printing 360, the Government Bill on Public auction; paragraph 5, House printing 361, the Government Bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Law on Public auction; paragraph 7, House printing 366, of the amendment on road traffic. I would also like to remind you that this afternoon we will be dealing with paragraph 137, oral questioning. After its completion, the 65th meeting will be suspended on the basis of agreement from the Gremium until Tuesday 30 May until 14.00. On Friday, May 19, the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 9 o'clock. First of all, I will apologize to Mr Jan Bartošek, within 11 o'clock for business reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík, from 15 o'clock for personal reasons Robert králíček, from 16 o'clock for business reasons Mrs Jana Krutáková, until 11 o'clock and from 11 to 11.30 for family reasons Mr Miloš nový, until 10.30 o'clock for work reasons Mr Tomio Okamura, for the entire working day for work reasons Mrs Michaela Opltová, for the whole working day for work reasons Mr Jan Richter, from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons Mr Karel Smetana, until 11 o'clock for health reasons Mr Jiří Strýček, until 11 o'clock for work reasons Mrs Helena Válková, from 9.15 to 10.15 no reason Mr Marek Výborný, until 10 o'clock for work reasons Mr Miroslav Zborovský. Minister Marian Jurečka apologizes from the members of the government within 15 hours for work reasons, from 11 to 12.15 for work reasons she apologizes to Minister Helena Langšádlová, within 16 hours for work reasons Minister Zdeněk Nekula apologizes and for the whole day for work reasons Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes. I have one application for the agenda, Mr Radek Vondráček is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. To justify my new point, I will read the text, Ivan Hoffman's text, an elderly commentator of the Czech Radio and a representative of the tender revolution in Slovakia, which has not been published for some reason, and I would like to read it here: "When it comes to investigating the age as an individually responsible approach to the future, when an advanced age will cease to be strong and the disease will increase, I will recall that each generation eventually comes to save money. They're devastated by revolution, crisis, reform, or war, so whoever saved up for old age threw money out the window. Because I've always known what's coming, I've seen the government devalue my savings with stoic tranquility today. The constant decline in politics must have caused a bunch of uneducated people to eventually come to power, some pirát who rob the state register, send the economy down, make debts, and drag the country to war. It happens repeatedly, cyclically, and there was no indication that it could be any different now. But today's situation must be for politicians who have turned out to be liars who are known to steal as well. As prices, taxes, and debts grow hand in hand, the voters of the rolled-out five-wheelers have a lot to do to find an apology for the supreme, mitigating circumstances, and so they did not have to say that they were in the election for fools who got fooled, manipulated and drunk with a roll. A good attempt to paint smug, arrogant dilettants as regrettable losers, victims of unbearable fate, is a sigh that the party is over and it's time to pull the spending. The depreciation of our savings, collected by personal responsibility, takes place in the name of collective responsibility. We just lived beyond our means, and the result is inflation. As far as the party is concerned, I vaguely remember that politicians once promised it to the general public. But we never got to see him, so it's not clear how he can end up. After generations that built this country, generations have come that have inhabited it. This was done in the regime of the said party, which was, of course, a party for a few of the chosen. These rich people do not seem to have any reason to stop partying - the night is still young, far away to the elections, and after them the flood." This comment is kind of directed against us politicians, all of us. It's not just the coalition, the opposition. So I'm asking, why aren't these things broadcast on the Czech Radio? Is that a coincidence, maybe some kind of technical error? Today I learned about an article that was on TN.cz yesterday, which says that our Czech Prime Minister is, according to international research, the least popular European leader and has been placed in a beautiful second place worldwide, only by extraordinary performance the South Korean Prime Minister has overtaken him. The article has been deleted, you will not be able to get to it now, just as over 500 comments on this matter have been deleted. And I'm thinking, too, is that a coincidence? Maybe it's some kind of technical mistake that articles like this are being erased? Therefore, I propose a new point in the programme, because on Tuesday you rejected me when I wanted to address the fact that this government buys advertising space for millions, buys PR articles, hires agencies to justify and explain their actions. What generations of politicians have done on their own, that they have to explain for themselves what they are coming up with, now taxpayers' money is found and spent on our surveys, researching our emotions, and trying to get inside our heads. I designed my new point exactly as it is written in the written proposal, and that is Freedom of expression and pluralism of opinion in the Czech Republic. I am not suggesting that he be placed on the agenda. And, folks, I think it's really time we found a moment to start talking to each other about how censorship in this country is, how it is with government propaganda, how it is with freedom of speech. It's high time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-001-136.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. I don't see any more applications to change the program. For this reason, I would only vote on this proposal and then we would follow the already approved programme. Mr Radek Vondráček proposed to include a new item on the agenda of the meeting without a solid inclusion and its name is Freedom of expression and pluralism of opinion in the Czech Republic. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 91, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 61, against 48. This proposal was not approved and the item was not included in the agenda. [[11.10 hours]] So I open the first point of today's negotiations, and that is
