ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 50th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to excuse their absence at today's meeting: Pekarová Adamová Markéta the whole day - working grounds, Adamec Ivan the whole day - kolář Ondřej, Babiš Andrej the whole day - personal reasons, Bačíková Jana the whole Knechtová - working Lenka, Bašta Jaroslav the whole day - working reasons, Bělica Josef the whole day - medical reasons, Bernard Josef the whole day - working reasons, Brož Lubomír the whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Bžoch Faltýnek the Vladimíra day - family reasons - working reasons, Decroix Eva the whole day - medical reasons, Faltyne Jaroslav the whole day - family reasons - family Kubík - family Jan - family reasons - Kasal David, Fialová Eva within 11 hours - medical reasons, Flek Josef the whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav the whole working day - working day - liška Petr, Gazík Petr from 10.30 to 9 - working reasons, Haas Karel the whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Juchelka Alešš the whole day - family reasons - Lesenská reasons - family reasons - medical, Kasa, all the whole working day - working day - working day - Nováková day Nina all day - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana all day - family reasons, Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla all day - health reasons, Quittová Petra all day - health reasons, Sládeček Karel from 11 o'clock - working reasons, Strýček Jiří from 13 o'clock - family reasons, Urbanová Barbora from 12.30 - working reasons, Wenzl Milan whole day - health reasons. Yes, I have one more message: Mrs Fialová cancels her apology. The members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - working reasons, Válek Vlastimil the whole day of the meeting. Today's negotiations should begin with points from the Laws block - third reading, in order: paragraph 90, House printing 75, ozone-injuring substances; paragraph 94, House printing 106, Information Society services; paragraph 95, House printing 107, product market surveillance; paragraph 97, House printing 285, spread of terrorist content online. Next we would continue with paragraph 7, House printing 252, amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, first reading, then we would discuss the points according to the approved agenda. I wonder if anyone has a proposal to amend the approved 50th meeting? It's not like that. In this case, I will read the apologies that have come. Karel Havlíček apologizes within 12 hours for work reasons and Vlastimil Válek has already apologized all day for work reasons. So I'm opening up a point.
