ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (Act on the Protection of Competition), as amended, and Act No. 273/1996 Coll., on the competence of the Office for the Protection of Competition, as amended /German press 283/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, Prime Minister Petr Fiala will present the proposal. Before I give you the floor, please, colleagues, both in the right and in the left side of the hall, colleagues and colleagues, in the right and left side of the hall, if you wish to discuss, go to the lobby to discuss. I'll ask the club presidents to go to the lobby to discuss. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly try to make a proposal for a law amending the competition law on the competence of the Office for the Protection of Competition. The draft law is drawn up on the basis of the legislative plan of the Government's legislative work for this year. The main reason for its submission is the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the strengthening of the position of competition authorities in the Member States so that they can promote more effectively the rules on ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. The aim of this Directive is that all national competition authorities are able to take independent decisions, have sufficient human, financial and technical resources and have effective instruments at their disposal. The main principles contained in the proposed regulation are the emphasis on the independence of the national competition authorities, the adjustment and incorporation of the conditions for the appointment and dismissal of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Office for the Protection of Competition, the adjustment of the set of instruments necessary for the proper enforcement of the European Union competition rules and the adjustment of the Leniency Programme. Some proposed changes are not directly related to the implementation of the directive, they are justified by application practice. This is a question of equalization, the possibility of protecting the identity of the lodger, extending the Leniency Programme to vertical agreements and so on. The draft law extends and tightens the regulation of mutual assistance between the competition authorities of the European Union States. On the principle of mutual recognition, the enforcement of decisions by the competition authorities of the Member States of the Union imposing fines or periodic penalty payments on the territory of the Czech Republic is regulated. But what is important is that this will contribute to the culture of the economic environment and to improving the proper functioning of the market. It is not expected that changes would create costs on the part of entrepreneurs. On the contrary, the result will be to ensure fair competition and better enforcement by the competent authorities, which should also have a positive impact on the business environment in the Czech Republic. The draft law implements a directive for which the implementation period of 4 February 2021 has expired. In accordance with the Act on the Collection of Laws and on the Collection of International Contracts, the entry into force of the Act is proposed on the 15th day following the date of publication, as there is an urgent general interest in the need to prevent or mitigate damage resulting from failure to comply with the transposition period of the Directive. I also politely ask the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u3	I thank you, Prime Minister, for the introductory words and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Jan Bauer. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u4	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, a brief report on the relatively conflict-free - in my view - transposition of the directive. The main principles proposed in the legislation are contained in this Directive and are, in particular, the emphasis on the independence of national competition authorities, the adjustment and incorporation of the conditions for the appointment and dismissal of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Competition Authority, the modification of the set of instruments necessary for the proper enforcement of the European Union competition rules and, last but not least, the resolution of the powers to impose fines, cooperation between national authorities and, inter alia, the adjustment of the Leniency Programme. Some of the proposed changes are not directly related to the transposition, as has already been said from the Prime Minister's mouth, and are justified in the current application practice. This is mainly about the issue of the settlement of disclosure of information contained in the administrative file, the confidentiality of the identity of the complainant and the joint and several liability for the payment of the fine imposed, if the same offence is committed by more than one person making up one competitor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application - Mrs Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is based primarily on the need to fulfil the obligations arising from membership of the European Union. The aim of the new legislation is to ensure that the application of national competition laws by national competition authorities to agreements, decisions of associations of undertakings or concerted practices which could affect trade between Member States does not result in a result other than that achieved by national competition authorities under European Union law pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Whereas: Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003. The main principles of the proposed legislation are contained in the directive in question. First of all, these are the following principles: emphasising the independence of national competition authorities, adjusting and establishing the preconditions for the appointment and dismissal of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Office for the Protection of Competition, adjusting the set of instruments necessary for the proper enforcement of European Union competition rules, adjusting the Leniency Programme. Other proposed changes are not directly related to implementation, however, they have been provoked by practice and I believe that these changes are also in order, and I would like to draw attention to them, because every time this is not a clean implementation, it is appropriate to get to know these changes that are not related to implementation in more detail. It is a question of settlement, the possibility of public authorities to propose commitments in favour of maintaining effective competition, the possibility of protecting the identity of the lodger, joint and several liability for the payment of the fine imposed, if more than one person making up one competitor commits the same offence, the disclosure of information contained in the file to law enforcement authorities, the modification of offences, the extension of the Leniency Programme to vertical agreements. The applicant does not expect an impact on the state budget, nor does it expect an increase in new jobs in the Authority. Transitional provisions relating to the continuity of office of the President of the Office and the Vice-Presidents are quite essential matters, govern the termination of office of the President and Vice-Presidents during the transitional period and specify the beginning of the term of office for the beginning of the term of office of the Vice-President appointed under the current legislation since the effectiveness of this Act. From my point of view, it is quite important in this bill because of the general urgent interest that this legal standard should take effect as soon as possible. It is proposed to be effective non-standardly immediately on the 15th day following the day of publication. For me and for the club of our ANO movement, we support this proposal and I think it will be approved very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-006-008.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I do not see the application, in which case I am ending the general debate. Do I want to ask the Prime Minister and the rapporteur about the final words? It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. Before I vote, I will read an apology - today for the whole working day, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I want to ask, does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee as a committee of guarantee? I see no proposal, in which case I will vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being tabled being discussed in the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Get him to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 78, registered 160 Members and Members, for 129, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask if you would like to order this press to another committee for discussion? It's not like that. There was no proposal, and we voted on all the proposals that were heard and needed to be voted on, so I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
