ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u1	92. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its agreement to ratifying the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013 /the House Print 65/ - second reading Here too, Minister Mikuláš Bek will present this material. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, I am now presenting to you a treaty to prevent double taxation with Kosovo, signed on 26 November 2013 in Pristina. This material was submitted repeatedly to the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2014 and 2018. In April 2014 and again in April 2018, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gave its approval for ratification. In the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, however, only the first reading and discussions of the relevant Chambers of Committees were held. Unfortunately, the second reading has not yet been implemented. Although the Czech Republic currently has international agreements to prevent double taxation with 96 countries in the world, Kosov is missing such a contract. Kosovo currently has international agreements on double taxation with many countries, such as Albania, Austria, Croatia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Macedonia, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Slovenia or Great Britain. In the context of the latest ones, it can be noted that contracts with Lithuania, Latvia and the Netherlands are being implemented from 1 January 2022 and from 1 January 2023 with Ireland. There are contracts with other countries in Kosovo at different stages of the legislative process of negotiating these international treaties. The Treaty has an economic dimension. This is a comprehensive tax contract negotiated on the basis of OECD and UN model models. The Treaty provides for the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income and will contribute to an objective distribution of the right to tax on each type of income between the two States, that is between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. The Treaty also traditionally regulates the basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties. It allows the resolution of disputes arising from its interpretation and implementation, exchange of information and coordination of the activities of the tax authorities of both States to limit possible tax evasion and fraud, in accordance with international standards of information exchange. At the same time, the contract ensures the non-discrimination of Czech entities in Kosovo and increases the legal certainty of investors and other tax entities, especially as regards the existence and level of their tax liability. The Czech-Kosova trade exchange has been developing very positively for many years in our favour, despite restrictions and complexity related to the covid-19 pandemic in Kosovo and the Czech Republic. Our trade balance shows a significant surplus. In 2022, Czech exports reached a record value of EUR 40.2 million, which is more than EUR 6 million better than 2021. It can therefore be assumed that Kosovo's position as one of our trading partners will continue to be of importance in the future. Despite the low population and low purchasing power, Kosovo's economy offers interesting opportunities for Czech companies. From the point of view of exports of the Czech Republic, the most promising sectors of Kosovo's economy are mainly mining and mining industries and related energy, as well as ecology and water management, renewable resources, rail transport, means of transport and machinery for agriculture. The Kosovo Party continues to express strong interest in increasing the volume of trade, imports of Czech products and direct investment from Czech companies in Kosovo, and for these reasons it has already ratified this Treaty. The entry into force of the contract is thus exclusively based on the progress of the work in the Czech Republic. Finally, the Czech Republic has established and maintained standard diplomatic contacts with Kosovo through the Czech Embassy in Pristina and the Embassy of Kosovo in Prague. Kosovo also seeks to involve the country as quickly as possible in the processes of European and Euro-Atlantic integration, with an association agreement concluded with the European Union, which contributes to closer cooperation with this Balkan country and opens the way for Kosovo to be accepted as a member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what has already been said, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic take into account this international treaty and agree to its ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u3	Thank you, Minister. First of all, have a nice noon, co-workers, co-workers. We took turns managing the meeting. I thank the Minister for the introductory words and ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, to justify the resolution of the committee delivered as House press number 65/1. And before they do, I will say that I have Mr. Kubíček Roman's factual comment here, but I have to delete it because we haven't opened the debate yet. Was it a mistake? That's great. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I will limit myself only to a summary of the current ratification process of this treaty, and I really appeal to the fact that this is a double taxation prevention. We are not talking about recognition of any state, but about whether our fellow citizens employed, for example, as sellers of bacon mayonnaise in the Republic of Kosovo will or will not be taxed both in the State of the source of income and in the state where they have their domicil, i.e. in our country. And, yes, that's undesirable for our citizens. The text of this international treaty was sent to all of us as press number 65 on 29 November 2021, although, as we know, the Government of the Czech Republic has already agreed to this agreement on 14 December 2011. The Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the Treaty in its resolution number 7 and ordered the Foreign Committee to be consulted. The first reading took place this January at our 50th meeting and we members of the Foreign Committee discussed it on February 2 and adopted a resolution that was delivered to you as press 65/1 in which we recommended to the Honored House to express our consent to the ratification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u5	Thank you, Madame. I am now opening up a debate in which we have one application so far, Mr Kobza. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the SPD MEP on the international treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes. We have a long-term problem of supporting our agreement with this treaty. Our position is based on the fact that the so-called Republic of Kosovo has declared its independence in direct conflict with UNSCR No. 1248 of 17 January 2008, which is a full and widely recognized source of international law. And when Topolánkův's Czech government recognised Kosovo and we want to conclude contracts with him, we want to ask, when will we recognise other enclaves like Náhorní Karabach, Republic of Arcach, Catalonia, South Ossetia, Northern Abkhazia or Northern Cyprus? All these entities have also unilaterally declared their independence in the same way as Kosovo, the representatives of the Czech government do not recognise them and talk about illegitimate units, separatists and the like, and yet their announcement is no different from Kosovo's. Maybe it's just that their governments haven't had a strange and dark past. But I'm still gonna talk about that. On the contrary, Kosovo has not recognised major European states such as Spain, Greece, Slovakia, Romania and some non-European countries have withdrawn their recognition of Kosovo. In our opinion, the Czech Republic should do the same. Many members of the current Kosovo government and all its previous governments, including its former President Hashim Thaçi, were members of the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army UÇK, which has been repeatedly designated a terrorist organization and whose leaders are now on trial. The prosecution of the so-called Hague War Crimes Tribunal in former Yugoslavia even accused Kosovo's current President Hashim Thaçi of war crimes and crimes against humanity. [[Ex-boyfriend?]] He blames him for killing dozens of civilians, and a few days ago he started a separate trial in this matter. Together with Thaçi, three others face the prosecution: Kadri Veseli, former chairman of Kosovo's Democratic Parliament, former chairman of the Kosovo Parliament and former spokesperson for the Rexhep Liberation Army, Jakub Krasniqi of Selimi's Social Democratic Initiative and Kadri Veseli, former chairman of the left-wing club Self-determination, currently the strongest political group in the Kosovo Parliament. So really, if this is a political representation that goes across the Kosovo political spectrum, then the question is whether we should deal with these people and make contracts with them. [[12.10 hours]] For this reason, the SPD will vote against and will not support this treaty because we believe that it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic or in the interests of its good name to enter into agreements with such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. No one is reporting to the general debate or to the debate at this point, so I am ending the debate. I ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the rapporteur or the rapporteur? No. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the resolution proposed by the Foreign Committee. After all, I would ask the rapporteur to read the resolution once more on the microphone, so that we know exactly what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u8	Okay. So the resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the avoidance of double taxation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-011-092.u9	Meanwhile, I have found the resolution of your committee and its precise description here is: it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013.' I just want to make sure it's exactly like this? [[Yes.]] Okay. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, and I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. In the meantime, I've gotten started. The number of Members has slowed down. We will vote on the resolution that I have just read, on the resolution proposed by the foreign committee. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, so how has it been loaded? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 125, 107 Members voted in favour of 68, against 15. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. And I'm done discussing point 92. Thank you both to the Member and to the Minister. We will continue our agenda. The next item to be discussed is item number
