ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-004-012.u1	12. Government bill amending Act No. 565/1990 Coll., on Local Charges, as amended /German Press 307/ - First Reading Let me remind you that we interrupted the item on January 11, 2023 at the 50th meeting. That's when Minister Stanjura spoke with the opening words. It's been... I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Havránek, who will follow the opening words of the Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-004-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, and from me everything good in the beginning of the year. The aim of this proposal is to adapt to some extent a working model for managing local charges so that it is simple and administratively easy. We received this proposal as the Chamber of Deputies from the Government on 15 September 2022. Thus, to sum up the individual purposes of this law aimed at simplifying this: to introduce a simplified form of assessment of most local charges by simply prescribing fees without a decision, to specify the conditions in which the fee administrator will exceptionally measure the local fee to the subject of the decision, also following the case-law of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Ombudsman's initiative to make an explicit request for a fee when it has only been assessed by the imposition of a charge. As far as effectiveness is concerned, this law should take effect 1. 1. 2024. The impact on public budgets is expected to be positive. And I thank you at this point for this opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-004-012.u3	I thank the honourable Member for the news report. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Ožanová is currently reporting. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-004-012.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, there are a little more of you today. First of all, I would like to thank you for the electronic submission of applications to the debate, which I would like to thank for allowing this option. [[11.10 hours]] In preparing this press, I was interested in my speech, which was given by the Moravian-Silesian Region to this press. And I will begin by saying that my comments draw exclusively from this opinion, so if the Minister wants, he can look into it. I welcome the draft amendment of the Local Charges Act in the assessment section, as the potential problems that the current decision-making activities of the court in relation to the current unnecessary administratively demanding regulation contained in Section 11 of the Local Charges Act may be significant negative. However, since the proposal addresses the issue of measuring and related activities, I consider that the proposal should be supplemented by some other points which correspond to the material submitted and the meaning and purpose of the proposed amendments. It seems appropriate to precise the text concerning the age of the payer from dogs. The interpretation problem is the text "person over 65 years of age." The current wording of Section 2 (b) is replaced by the following: In practice, 3 of the Local Charges Act raises doubts as to the age of persons affected by a lower rate of local fee from dogs. It is thus not clear whether it is sufficient to reach a limit of 65 years of age, or the taxpayer must complete the age of 66 years. In order to avoid any doubt, municipalities must proceed to an adjustment under the generally binding decree. Other municipalities leave taxpayers at the mercy of the legal text and the associated different application of the law. This condition is not desirable. The proposed solution would clearly set a threshold from which the lower fee rate applies. In addition, other legislation also applies the proposed method of determining the age limit. As far as that is concerned, Minister, I have already prepared amendments on this point, too. Furthermore, the Moravian-Silesian Region pointed out a social problem concerning the debt of minors and incompetent persons. It recommended adjusting the exemption in the assessment of charges for the disposal of municipal waste from immovable property based on a volume or weight sub-base in such a way that the charge would not be charged to minors or persons limited to their right. The purpose of the proposal at the time given by the Moravian-Silesian Region was that the administration of the charge should at least burden minors limited to their rights when the management of their property is effectively carried out by a legal representative or guardian. Since the Ministry has not incorporated this proposal into the amendment, I again pretend that this will be the subject of an amendment. One of the other and fundamental comments given by the Moravian-Silesian Region concerns the tax liability of the municipality of taxpayers, which the municipality itself introduced in its territory. Perhaps none of us will find it excessive to demand that the municipality and its contribution organisations do not have a fee obligation for the fees that the municipality itself has introduced. In practice, the municipality becomes a taxpayer on its territory and must therefore effectively pay itself the relevant fee, which constitutes an unnecessary administrative act, which in addition creates unnecessary financial costs. Some municipalities therefore approach the introduction of various exemptions, most often in the use of public spaces, where in practice, for example, the municipality pays a fee to itself through the supplier, together with another payment for the administration of this payment. Dear colleagues, I will not be more on this press, otherwise, of course, I consider the press to be very beneficial and we should support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-004-012.u5	Thank you very much. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I am not reporting, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not. Proposals for repayment and rejection have not been made, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote. I will repeat once again what we will be voting on. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 54, 152 Members were voted in, 126 voted in, no Member opposed. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. And I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. At the same time, the Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. In that case, I'm done discussing item 12. And we will continue with the approved agenda of the meeting, namely item number
