ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u1	59. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 165/ - first reading We interrupted the discussion of this point at the 41st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 12 October 2022. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Senator Roman Kraus - hello - and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Hubert Lang. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as House Press 165/1 and we will continue with the interrupted general debate to which they have entered... Okay, I have a warning here that there has been a change in the rapporteur and that, as part of the first reading, we have elected a Member... so there is a proposal for a change in the rapporteur to Mr Janulík. Please, the rapporteur. And since we are at first reading, the proposal to amend the rapporteur must be voted by the Chamber of Deputies, so I will again like to call my fellow Members from the front to this vote, because we must vote on the proposal to amend the rapporteur immediately. Since I do not see the motion to withdraw, I am opening the vote and I am asking who is Mr Hubert Lang's rapporteur to Mr Janulík for a change? Who's against it? Voting number 38, 144 Members signed in for 121. The motion was accepted. I ask that Mr Janulík take his place at the rapporteur's table. Once again, the Government's position has been delivered as House Press 165/1. We will continue with the interrupted general debate in which these Members have joined, and I have Mr Janulík here first, so I give the floor to the honourable Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to extend this too far. Everything relevant to this has been said. I'm just going to sum it up, so roughly, so that it's clear what's going on. Our President, Alena Schillerová, announced here last time that we would call a meeting or, respectively, a round table, where we would simply make an argument so that it would get some shape. That's what I think we agree on. In this context, I would then ask for an extension of the deadline from 60 to 90 days so that there is sufficient time, but I will get to that. Look, I'll sum up. Actually, the Senate proposal is old, almost a year and a quarter or so today. Of course, in the meantime, a lot of things happened, like the war in Ukraine and so on. Today it's more of a wonder why it's not government, but it's a Senate proposal. It should be government for me, since we have to discuss such a thing at this time and in this situation in which the Czech Republic is at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I dare ask for silence in the room so that we can hear each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u4	So I don't see the urgency at all, and I don't think our voters and fellow citizens either, but okay, it's - you have most of it - it's up to you. So, interestingly, one of your main arguments is about the monopoly, I'll get to that, too, but the interesting thing is that the monopoly on employees' accident insurance doesn't bother anyone, it's been here for decades. There was even a reservation from Brussels for this. There's nothing to be done about it, it's been swept under the carpet, that's okay, okay? So, Kooperativa, Generali here has a monopoly on covering for the employees of the accident, and that's okay. So here we are again, as Patrik says, the favorite double standard, for me it's a double kilometer, not a meter. So, of course, it's weird that the money that can go into health systems, we'll give it back to a few groups and end up in a gray economy. For me, after ten years, I've never had such a tough time discussing a single press. What's behind this, everyone thinks kindly. There was such hysteria, a media campaign. Some people just invest a lot in it because they're after a lot of money, so they're attacking VZP, complaints about non-compliance, rumors, et cetera, et cetera. I don't even want to dissect it. So I'm saying, the whole profit that should go to the VZP will end up in private hands. Okay. The fact that the ČAP is putting pressure on the legislator threatens that it is not in accordance with European law - the situation is completely opposite, I will allow you to quote the European Commission Competition DG, so that is the answer, please, to what my colleague here has said. Yeah, I'm looking at you, colleague, through the President. "The health insurance of foreigners from non-EU countries for 90 days falls under Directive 2003/109 EC. 5 - adequate compensation for those who are not included in the national social/public system, so this issue concerns the area of justice, security and justice, and not the directives on competition and the free movement of capital and services. Each Member State has the freedom to organise the system as it wishes. At first glance, it cannot be said that the current position of VZP or as a subsidiary of VZP is" - public insurance companies - "is contrary to EU legislation or its directives, especially if it is in the public interest and in the interests of health." So, please, that's available here. I refute your false argument that it is contrary that Brusel points it out, and blah, blah, blah, so keep it. Well, life's just going to be such a surprise. Imagine that about ten days ago, in my practice, I was visited by a Vietnamese citizen who pulled a Slavia insurance card on me. In violation of the law, Slavia insured her and insured her until 2025. I have made it an ente, and it has come out positive, Mr Docent, through Madam President. How about now? There's nothing covered by the insurance company. She was in a good position to believe that by 2025 she had it covered - well, and she doesn't. What's next? Genetics, interruptions... Who's gonna pay for this? She won't pay, she doesn't have the money. And now that's the practical impact. You guys are babbling about some theoretical nonsense, but we're doing it with these hands, okay, folks? So -- and I'm just saying, life is gonna set up so much that it's gonna happen to me right now. So who here respects the law? It's not the insurance company, it's definitely not, because it's misleading clients. The lady thought she was perfectly insured by 2025, getting everything she had to get. He won't. The fact that each of us doing this leaves our money in it, you can't even imagine, because you'd be chasing the lice in the stubble for the crown. So, in the logic of the matter, I suggest that the guarantee committee change, that this matter be transferred from the Security Committee to the Health Committee. I hope, by your means, that Professor Svoboda will have no objection to this being addressed by the Health Committee, and so in its gesture and on its basis, there would be a round table where it can be said to get it into shape, not before the year and a half, when the whole thing arose, but in order to adapt to today's conditions and to have some cultured expression, so that it is not only in the hands of insurance speculators, but to be in the hands of health professionals, because in the end, they are health professionals who have to do it. But, of course, the taxpayers will pay for it in the finals, if the bailouts who are still handing out the cards don't pay. Of course, I also suggest - write this down - I suggest a rejection, which I assume will not pass, but if it does not pass, I suggest extending the deadline for the first-guard committee to 90 days. I would like you - I have here the pattern of the invitation, the invitation to the round table I would send to you today or tomorrow - to those concerned interested so that the insurance companies could take part, respectively, those who should be the payer of the care, and, of course, the representative of one of those foreigners, because I can only think of one more paraphrase on the film Three veterans, that "alien is ours." So for me, for the moment, everything. I don't think there's anything else to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u5	Thank you. In addition to the general debate, I have Mrs Adámková. And for the record, Mr Bauer votes with card number 37. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, just for a very short time, because I have already understood, after the debates on this subject, that expertise is being set aside, nobody cares. It doesn't matter what health care will look like in our medical facilities, how the reimbursement will then be enforced. I've already realized that it's completely unnecessary. And let me paraphrase here with Chinese literature, with Chinese poetry that says, "Marno to the soul of a person who doesn't want to love you." Here I would say: 'Marno Members explain when they do not want to understand' and his primary source is only what his party leader tells him. So I understand that now, I won't say that again. I understand it's different for you. I just want to say, please, nicely, that - and I'm saying this again to understand those who might still want to listen - that, firstly, the arguments that these are particularly uninsured are odd. We know who's uninsured, that's not what we had in mind. They are foreigners who believe they are insured. And I have to say, I'm also surprised by the Senate's turn, probably because there are other people there, because before that, it wasn't where it originally turned out that the Senate understood the problem of medical facilities. Then it turns out that he doesn't understand, he put in another proposal, which, of course, is quite all right, it's legally okay. We need to talk about him. I would just like to point out that the real paramedic who treats at night - for me it's at night, for colleagues who are not around again during the day - the stranger, although the stranger has a card of insurance, you are not able to see whether it is covered or not, he is convinced that he has paid enough. And I have to say again that these people are not entirely angry. They're just looking for the cheapest service in the market and they think they're getting it. It's completely misguided, it just pays some guys, and they're not really insured. [[12.40 hours]] It's not possible to enforce it. Honestly, medical facilities don't even have the scope to put all that stuff in court, because they just can't do it. So we prefer to get to the fact that we have impregnable debts. So please, nicely, I'd like to be here if we could actually meet at the round table with insurance companies. What we're hearing about is that an insurance company that completely illegally insures foreigners, and nothing happens, so I'm a little surprised how far this law enforcement is possible or impossible. I suppose our debate will be a matter of fact. I'm very much in favour of actually leaving this on the Health Committee as a gesture committee, because whether you want it or not, it always ends up in that health facility. No one else is gonna treat these people, it's just gonna be us. So it would be appropriate for us to really hear all the arguments there. I understand that many don't care because it's just not important to them, but this is important to health care institutions. Many health care establishments really don't have the means to cover a payment that isn't covered by insurance. In the end, of course, this person is still consuming our care, consuming the material, and we all are paying for it. Thank you for your attention, I am really very curious about the discussions and looking forward to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u7	Thank you. Mrs Štefanová is also enrolled in the general debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment here on the proposed changes in the health insurance of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I do not agree with the part of the explanatory memorandum that says that the current legislative regulation is contrary to the right to freedom of business. States have always made decisions in history and decide which activities are part of the free market and which the state retains, and thus usually retains a monopoly on tax collection. Health insurance is provided by law for all who reside long-term in the territory of the Czech Republic. It is just a tax otherwise named, which is used to cover the costs of treatment. As the state, for example, monopolistically collects social insurance or road tax, it is in complete compliance with the principles of the state's functioning to collect other taxes it imposes. On the contrary, it has no logic when a private entity collects the tax it imposes. And it's completely beyond logic if the profits from the statutory taxes flow to private companies and, in most cases, foreign companies. The state, of course, does not only impose a choice of insurance policy, but also a performance, which means that it orders comprehensive care for foreigners. Again, that's something you can't compete with. Any doctor must treat a wounded stranger as a Czech citizen, every rescue service must bring him to the nearest hospital, and everyone must provide life and health saving care. In fact, the insurance company only pays for this care. In fact, it's just an entity that collects money and then redistributes it to the health system. It is also not true that the current regulation withdraws the right of foreigners to choose health insurance according to their preferences. Even Czech citizens cannot choose different types of health insurance. The rule is that everyone has guaranteed aid by a state-paid institution without distinction. On the contrary, before the current legislation as a result in the period of commercial insurance, many performances remained outstanding after foreigners, because they did not have the insurances that covered the performances or had only formal insurances that did not cover anything and served only to obtain a visa. The current state of health insurance for foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic is completely satisfactory and there is no need to change it. Therefore, the SPD will not support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u9	Thank you, and I have Mr Haas for the general debate as the last one to be logged in. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u10	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. I don't think it's going to surprise you, after the meeting in plenary in October, when we discussed this point for the first time... that I'll probably be the only one to step forward in support of the proposal. If I wanted to sum it up to one point, today's decision-making is whether we want the current one, from the summer of 2021 to a functioning, abnormal, non-transparable, inefficient monopoly state, or whether we want it in an industry in which it is normally possible, which normally works here, I will in a moment disprove specific facts if we want healthy liberal market competition. That's what this whole point is about. And now those few facts - I think I'll pass on the words of my colleague Janulík, through you, about the boystappers, liars, peeks and so forth - so a few facts, objective facts, where I'm going to source it to support the proposal. The proposal is certainly illegal, it is contrary to Czech constitutional law. Take a look at Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is contrary to the fundamental treaties of the European Union. You can look at the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, its Article 49, 56, 102, 106. To put it simply, I'm going to make this very short so that I don't have to quote the whole thing, that's a ban that applies to all sectors unless it's specifically specified otherwise. This also means for the health insurance of foreigners, the prohibition of monopoly and the exclusion of competitors from the market and the prohibition of abuse of dominant position. And in the third time, the proposal is, of course, contrary to the valid European Solvency II Directive. Again, to be exact, you can look at the article. 188 of this Directive - the obligation of Member States, the active obligation of Member States to abolish monopolies in insurance sectors. The directive has been effective since 2009. What do these risks imply from the breach or from these three levels of unlawfulness? Two investigations are under way before the European Commission. I'm happy to take the source from my colleague, Janulík, who quoted it, I did it at the speed of his speech, and now I mean only in fact, he didn't catch the source somehow. According to my information, for example from sources, from the official source of the EU Pilot, in which the first steps of the investigations carried out by the European Commission are collected, two investigations are carried out, one at the Directorate-General for Competition and one at the Directorate-General for Financial Markets. This is one plane that can - it is not so short a journey, I would have committed bias - but it can, of course, end up suing the Czech Republic at the Court of Justice and the potential fines of the Czech Republic for violating European law. Secondly, of course, private investors' actions against the Czech Republic are at risk, precisely because of the violation of international agreements on investment protection, which have been replaced by European legislation within the European Union, but they have the most common ten-year transitional period in which claims for compensation for damage caused by investors by the Czech Republic may be applied by an illegal step in its legislation or by a violation of Czech constitutional law. What I wanted to emphasise, and I think it may support the objectivity of my words, if you look at the Stenoprotocols from the House's meeting of the previous parliamentary term - now I hope to say exactly what I do not have here in the remarks - I think it was June 2, 2021, when the amendment by Mr Janulík and colleague Adámková, through Madam President, was discussed, so they gave a very strongly negative opinion to this proposal. You can look at the protocols of the then government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, and it was the ministry of the YES movement and the ministers of the YES movement, and I appreciate that they performed here so objectively and correctly. It is possible to trace the performance of the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, in the Steno Protocols. You will find out from the Stenoprotocol that he clearly identified the amendment introduced by the monopoly as illegal as the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Finance then gave the same opinion to Minister Alena Schillerová. So I think that the words spoken here by Haas are no longer in conflict with the then positions of the ANO and ČSSD ministries in the previous parliamentary term. [[12.50 hours]] The fourth fact - I quote it exactly again so you can look it up, I mentioned it already in October at the start of the first reading. In discussing this amendment, the House had a negative opinion of the ÚOHS, it is under the number of the case 12545/2021/440/LSl, which shows the legality of the situation, which unfortunately brought the amendment to the Czech Republic. With regard to the arguments that are falling here, whether on the part of my colleague Janulík or my colleague Adámková, again through Madam President, on debts - mostly there are no figures, no facts about debts brought by the system of commercial or market and competitive health insurance for foreigners. I mentioned and am able - this time I took them with me, so if you want to see, I have the data requested from five faculty hospitals, from five of the largest faculty hospitals in the Czech Republic - only 1.2% of the claims in the sum for all the largest faculty hospitals were for the care of foreigners who were insured, that is, the debtors were some of the commercial insurance companies, because there was some discussion between the medical facility and the commercial insurance company concerned about the liquidation of the insurance event from the health insurance of foreigners, 98,8% of the claims of faculty hospitals went to uninsured foreigners. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I have the data here to see if anyone would be interested in it. And the data, I didn't mention that here last time, I looked it up because this data is also being tracked by the IHIS. And I understand that medical care is not only provided by faculty hospitals, but also by other health service providers. The IHIS monitors this data for all types of providers, so that in the official administration of the IHIS 2020 administration, meaning, over the last year, the normal market competitive situation in the health insurance of foreigners, represented unpaid claims for foreigners only 6.1 % of the total cost of health care for foreigners, only 6.1 %, and included both insured and uninsured foreigners. This means portraying the state as a sort of tragedy and not paying the cost of the health care of foreigners is not entirely consistent with facts or evidence from faculty hospitals or documented by the UHIS. The third point from the end of my remarks, and I felt most sorry for my colleagues across the political spectrum, was, in principle, an uncovered threat to my colleague, Janulík, in the October discussion of the responsibilities of Members who are members of the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation, to their responsibility for harm. I have at my disposal the written opinion of Professor Jan Wintr of Charles University Law Faculty of 25 October 2022, again I offer to look at it, and I quote only one sentence from it. It was a question for Professor Wintr to discuss precisely this point in the House on 12 October...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u11	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to ask for peace in the courtroom! The MP must be shouting at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u12	I quote only one sentence in a full page opinion. The answer is clear: 'The Members have no legal responsibility for their vote in the Chamber of Deputies'. This, of course, results from Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. 27 The Constitution of the Czech Republic also follows from Section 3 (3) of the Act on Conflict of Interest. The penultimate point: the opposition to the Senate proposal that we are discussing here today is a resistance to a number of substantive improvements, which undoubtedly, even Haas, no doubt needs the health insurance system of foreigners. There are many improvements that the law brings. I will give an example of doubling the mandatory minimum limit of insurance benefits, introduction - colleague Janulík, colleague Adámková here several times talked about cards - well, cards are probably a relic of the past time - so the introduction of a uniform online register of health insurance for foreigners, accessible at any time and free of charge to all health care providers, accessible to the Ministry of the Interior, accessible to the Police of the Czech Republic, and eh, financed not by the state, not only from the point of view of its development, application development, but also from the point of view of operation, but paid at the costs of participants in this market. So, in a way, I don't understand the opposition to the Senate proposal from the point of view of the fact that anyone who opposes the Senate proposal really doesn't want to go on improving the health insurance system of foreigners. And the last mention-- she's a little connected to the debts, but she's a little off the chart. Janulík, a colleague here again on 12 October, through Madam President, at the opening of the first reading of this point, referred to the huge problems of paying invoices by commercial insurance companies before the introduction of the monopoly. I'm only going to use data from one year now, she's traceable objectively from any previous year. In 2020, that was the last year before the monopoly was introduced, they liquidated all commercial insurance companies, including VZP, together with 53 697 insurance events, for which CZK 481 million were paid for health care for foreigners. Here, too, the two figures show that the claim that the system didn't work, it collapsed, it was a system of guys, peeks, as my colleague Janulík sees in the system, I can't take his opinion away, so I think the hard data, the objective data tells the opposite. Finally, I will only ask all the liberal-thinking Members across the political spectrum, such as Members who respect the views of the previous government, so I have mentioned this discussion of the amendment introduced by the monopoly in June 2021, so I will ask all the liberal-thinking Members across the political spectrum to support the good proposal of fellow senators. I thank them for the proposal, and I believe the proposal will pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u13	Thank you, and your speech raised a factual remark by Mrs Adámková. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u14	Thank you for the floor. I just have to say that, as always, Mr. Haas is very well prepared, only you do not understand what is really going on in the field, Mr. Colleague, despite all the fact that your things are certainly very well legally processed. But go tell that to the nurses on the urgent income, they'll be really happy if you name some legal stuff there. And I have to say, I'm glad we're talking about this situation. That's why we want the round table. I have one more thing, 2020. Please, nicely, when someone presents to you, it is an atypical year, it is not possible to take it seriously because there was an epidemic, there was not so much travel, so I must say to Mr Haas, who processed this for you, this year he did not tell you well because he was atypical. 2020 is not considered anywhere as a year that is somehow possible for health care, I warn, otherwise maybe yes, to be a reference, because it was just a different time. So it's only because if someone gives you another 2020 year, please turn back, because it really isn't standard. koneckonců all, even health care statistics know that it is not quite right to compare anything with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u15	Thank you for keeping time, and I have two applications from the place. Vice-President Richterová. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u16	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I would just like to briefly support what my previous speaker, Karel Haas, said, because we have indeed witnessed a very unique situation here in the last parliamentary term, when the Minister of Health gave a negative opinion and then his own club voted in the opposite direction, i.e. a positive one. I wanted to highlight it, it's something that's very unusual, very unusual. And as great a change as the introduction of a monopoly for foreigners was then made by the parliamentary amendment. I just want to remind you, because here in these discussions, it sometimes sounds like some kind of criticism and commentary, so I just want to remind you that this is what happened at the time and it was contrary to the position of my own minister. The last thing I would like to stress: we, as pirát at the time, opposed it, didn't feel right at the time, and it doesn't feel right now, and that is why we are happy to fix the situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u17	Thank you. Mr. Kuchař has another application from the post. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start off with a little bit of a different keg. I will not go against Mr Haas, who is really well prepared, and I strongly agree that the law on insurance of foreigners in the Czech Republic needs to be amended. But you also need to look at him from a different angle, from the medical guy. We have a certain health system and some insurance in it. We also have foreigners from third countries of the European Union in this insurance long ago because they are paid for by the employer if they are employed in the Czech Republic. The transposition of European law, which is now ready for the Ministry of the Interior, requires that a person under 18 be placed in public health insurance. This means that we will again have in public insurance in public health insurance companies another cohort of people, children between the ages of 0 and 18. We're proposing to this law whether there's gonna be a year's children, two-year-olds, or... why? We must also transpose European law into Czech law, where between 0 and 18 years will be insured public health insurance. We're talking here that from next year or over, we're not going to use the birth numbers, we're going to generate some number for this particular person. It is also necessary to look at the fact that we are discussing travel insurance, but it is residential because the person must have a permanent stay generated in the Czech Republic, which means that at that moment we can generate a new birth number in quotation marks and we can include it in the Czech health system. Thus, his insurance becomes the insurance of a person without a job in the Czech Republic, as well as if I am not employed and will pay for the insurance. Today the state insured is somewhere 1,900 crowns, the person without work pays about 2,200 crowns. [[Around?]] Systemically, that's correct. The man pays for the system if he does not draw, he remains a solidarity contribution to the Czech citizen. I don't see any reason why a foreign person who is in the Czech Republic should have conditions other than Czech. And the third thing I'm going to add to that. The moment an extra register of foreign insured persons is established at the Czech Insurance Office, it is medical data. Why, if we have a system that is given, why not contribute to the Czech system? So today I'm going to vote for it to go first reading, but let's really sit down, let's calmly cancel the PVZP because we don't need it, if we think about it, it's actually a person who lives in the Czech Republic and should contribute solidly to the Czech health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u19	Thank you. Mr. Síla has another application from the post. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this issue under the SPD, namely that there are always arguments here that we are against the European Union, that it is against the laws of the European Union and so on, here is this amendment, and, on the contrary, the Member States' competence remains to determine health policy, health organisation and health care, including the distribution of resources allocated to them by each Member State. Health falls within support and shared powers, depending on the specific policy areas. In general, the role of the European Union in the field of health is limited, in particular coordination, as all Member States are governed by their own health policy, which is always specific under the conditions which govern the state. For example, Czech health care is characterized by one of the lowest proportions of patients on the basis of health care and is relatively centralized despite the existence of seven insurance companies. In the Czech Republic there is only one compulsory public health insurance which does not yet allow commercial insurance with the payment of so-called superstandards and commercial additional insurance, the possibility of commercial additional insurance. Therefore, the objection that it interferes with any right of health protection of foreigners is not relevant. Another objection, which was stated in the explanatory memorandum, that if the VZP insurance company stopped working or somehow collapsed or what, that immediately the health insurance would be lost by foreigners - which again is an irrelevant comment, because PVZP is guaranteed by the State. I would just like to mention here about commercial insurance, even if it is only a foreigner, although it is a very narrow section of health care, it is a huge increase in the administration for health professionals, bureaucracy from insured people and insurance companies, which will employ a review doctor, who will have the task of questioning the need for health care provided. These are all the reasons why the cost of providing this care will increase. I would just like to mention one sentence here, namely that commercial insurance companies in the United States, which actually operate only on a commercial basis, their operating costs are 26 percent, at about 6 percent in the European Union and in the Czech Republic are 3,3.5% by law. An increase in administration's significant increase in health insurance costs is one of the basic reasons why we cannot support this amendment here. [[And?]] [[Is it?]] The only thing there is, perhaps, that could be accepted in some way, but I think it could be done to help the amendment into another law on public health insurance, is that paragraph on child insurance, where the law currently applies, which tells us that the insurance of those children... are insured only for the first two months after birth in our territory and according to the amendment they should be insured for 12 months, which is positive in my opinion and this would, of course, be taken over. [[Was it?]] However, the overall picture here in this novel affects me as another slice of salami wheels from public health insurance in terms of the commercialisation of health care, and therefore the SPD proposes rejecting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u21	Thank you and I no longer see anyone else enrolled in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask the final words if there's any interest? Mr. Senator's interested. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said around this amendment to the law proposed by the Senate. I do not want to repeat all things, although it has been a long time since this first reading began, but I want to repeat the answer to some of the things that have been said here. All that has been said about demonopolyisation by the Member, and the fact that two investigations are being conducted, and the bodies that have been mentioned, I also have the information, I do not have it in writing, so I do not want to discuss it any further. But what's essential? In this amendment, we were just providing increased security for providers, whether they were ambulances or hospitals, to get paid for work, for the health services they provided to people, foreigners from countries outside the European Union. So, on the one hand, I repeat, we doubled the lowest lower limit for one episode of treatment, which also means for one episode of an ambulance visit from 60,000 to 120,000 euros, which according to statistics covers 99.5 percent of all cases treated in the Czech Republic, and only exceptionally some of these things, some of those patients, are more expensive than EUR 120,000. [[13.10 hours]] Another, because it was quite right here that patients often come into the device with a card, we don't know with which one. Therefore, this amendment, this proposal, provides for the publication of a model of insurance contracts and insurance terms on the insurance companies' website, that is to say another guarantee for the provider. Another thing is the already mentioned health insurance register, which will be managed by the Czech Insurance Office without the cost of the system. The point is, by online connection, any provider can find out where and how the patient is insured by the client. So, as far as the non-acute thing is concerned, he can refuse it, or he can only treat it up to the level of his insurance policy. There have been mentioned insurance companies that actually cheat on their clients, insure them for a small amount, and then the medical facility has no chance of practically getting the money out of these people more or less when I say it like that, so it's important stuff. There was a debate about the age to which these people are supposed to be insured. In our proposal, we extend it from 60 days to 12 months, that is, to deal with those cases where a mother who comes with a child who didn't give birth to the Czech Republic and doesn't have a long-term stay here, so that it is somehow covered, because the costs especially for some immature newborns are the largest in the first two or three months, so we wanted to make sure the equipment that they get paid within 12 months. Then we are still there as far as foreigners who have a long-term stay here are concerned that my mother's long-term stay, and that in order to be provided to these children from the health insurance payment service, we have added a situation where only the child's father is permanently resident, because such situations also occur. So it's just to refresh the points that are highly positive, especially for the providers, because the debts remained on the providers. Although they are not astronomical, but, of course, it may be easier for the hospital to absorb economically than there are individual ambulances, as the colleague here mentioned. And I will comment on some three, four things, I don't want to prolong it, but it has already been said here at the October meeting that we are actually losing the VZP's mother of money from PVZP, a. s. One fact - for three years now PVZP, a. s., has not paid any dividend of VZP, that is to say 0 CZK. This is the contribution of PVZP, a. s., to the public health insurance system. Then it was said here that there were invading obscure intermediaries. Yes, they are. As director of the hospital, I also dealt with it where those cheating clients thought they were insurance, and they're not. But there was also one here called Strachovka. Then I will ask why the so-called Strachovka, which was mentioned, has just become an intermediary of the VZP, according to the public register of the Czech National Bank on 27 June 2022. It's just a question I don't think I'm gonna get an answer for. And the last thing I want to remind you about: it was said here that there was a monopoly on Cooperatives. He is the monopoly of Kooperativa and Generali on accident insurance for employees paid by employers, and by the time this insurance product was created, only two insurance companies operated on the Czech market, namely Kooperativa and then Česká pojišťovna, today Generali. So, of course, this may be the source of any possible parliamentary proposal to amend a law that governs the accident insurance paid by employers. This was not an ambition for us to address this matter by proposing an amendment to the law. Finally, I would like to ask you to consider the real benefits, especially for providers and especially for patients who are ill foreigners, even if they are so-called third countries. Therefore, I beg you to approve this draft Senate amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u23	Thank you. As part of the first reading, the proposals for returning the proposal submitted to the applicant for completion, submitted by Mrs Adámková on 12 October 2022, followed by a proposal to reject the proposal submitted, also submitted 12. 10. 2022 by Mr Síkela, and today Mr Janulík has joined. And the final proposal is to extend the deadline for committee discussions to 90 days. The time limits will be voted, if necessary, after the commandment to the committees, so now we must deal with the proposal to return the proposal to the proposer for completion, so I will go on. There's an interest in checking out. I checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. The number seems to be stable. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of returning the proposal to the applicant for completion? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 158 Members registered, for 60, against 87. The motion was not accepted. The next vote is the motion to reject the motion tabled by Mr Síkela and today by Mr Janulík. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 165 Members registered, for 67, against 88. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Committee on Security as a Committee on Guarantee, but the rapporteur's proposal for first reading has been made to order the Chamber of Deputies to order the proposal submitted to the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. So, first of all, we will vote on the counter-proposal, which means that this press should be directed to the Health Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 41, registered by 168 Members, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. I ask, is there anyone with a motion for a commandment to the next committee for discussion? Please, Mr Vondráček has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u24	Thank you. In the previous point, I asked you and we have successfully voted that we have not included one press on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. In order to make up for it, given that the debate also concerned the monopoly, European law and other questions, I volunteer and suggest that the press be directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-003-059.u25	Thank you. Does anyone have a proposal for another committee? If this is not the case, I am making a motion for a vote, for inclusion as well as for the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, 171 Members signed in, for 77, against 46. The motion was not accepted. I don't see any more interest in the next committee. So, in the general debate, there was also a proposal to shorten the time limit or extend the time limit pursuant to § 91 para. 2 and 3 of Mr Janulík, a proposal for 90 days. I hereby initiate the vote and ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 43, 172 Members signed in, for 74 against 82. The motion was not accepted. This concludes the first reading of this proposal. And I'm opening point number
