ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /house print 332/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Martin Kupka will present the proposal. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, this is primarily about adapting the legal order of the Czech Republic to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2021 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport. We therefore amend the Railway Act in order to meet all the requirements of European legislation, with the fact that the main legislation included in the draft law in this context constitutes a proposal for a new catalogue of the facts of the offences affecting both the behaviour of the carrier and the railway operator, the railway station operator, but also the seller of travel and transport documents, the travel agency operator and the travel agency operator, so that it really corresponds to that regulation, while at the same time providing for penalties for the commission of such offences. The draft law also makes use of several optional provisions contained in that Regulation. Following the complaints addressed to us by the European Commission, there is also a partial clarification of the rules governing the operation of service facilities, for which it is in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the creation of a single European railway area, needs to be kept separate accounts. In addition to the implementing legislation, the scope of the conditions for admission to the test, the composition of which is necessary for the issue of a licence to drive a railway vehicle on a trolleybus track, follows the requirements imposed by the Association of Transport Enterprises of the Czech Republic. In this case, it is about not doubling the demands of trolleybus drivers unnecessarily, very simply said. A minor modification is also carried out in Act No. 251/2005 Coll., on Labour Inspection, following the withdrawal of the railway inspection of the performance of the state supervision, which took place by Act No. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). This amendment was not taken into account in the Labour Inspection Act, which is corrected by this step. honourable Members, I would like to ask for the support of this proposed bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u4	Good morning. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, members of the government, we are therefore in Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and related laws. As has already been said by the petitioner - the Minister, this is primarily about adapting the rule of law, which is a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU, to the Czech rule of law. This is more precisely the EU Council regulation of 2021, and it is therefore the rights and obligations of passengers. I will try to simplify very much what is relevant in this law, in this amendment. As has been said, the point is that the trolleybus drivers don't have - I'm going to pull out the more important things that interest me in the law - so that the trolleybus drivers don't have double requirements. The point is that because the trolleybus is then perceived as actually a railway vehicle, so that the driver's licence is not issued with such demands, and it is required by the Association of Transport Enterprises of the Czech Republic. I think it's quite positive. Another thing that is being introduced as a novelty - and often already introduced - is that it will now be really an obligation - is that passengers must be allowed to purchase a travel document after boarding the train without paying additional costs. These are the two important things I have chosen from the law, or the minister has already said most of them. We are at first reading, and I therefore ask you to support this law and to discuss it with the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u5	Thank you. Hello, I am opening up a general debate and a general debate, and I look around, yes, from where Mr Kolovratník is reporting. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u6	Thank you for the floor, good morning. I, too, suggest or announce that my performance will not be long, and I will give our position on this bill shortly as an YES movement. In that opinion, I will follow up on what Minister Martin Kupka said in the opening words. It is indeed a law that we do not consider to be conflicting, fundamental or misleading any systemic changes in the world of the Czech railway. Indeed, this amendment merely sets out, on the proposal of the relevant European Union regulation, a new catalogue of facts concerning the conduct or conduct of individual rail players, be they carriers, railway operators, railway station operators, document vendors and so on. That's ad 1. Ad 2, both the Minister and the rapporteur talked about the transport companies. I have the information, too, about a year and a half ago, that really from the title that trolleybuses are a railway vehicle, such double or double requirements are imposed on them both from the point of view of road traffic legislation and from the point of view of railway regulations, and it is reasonable and good if they manage to comply and a little simplify the requirements for them. Who you are interested in this issue, you know that after the covido period when the labour market in transport changed, most transport companies have really been having difficulty in getting new trolleybus drivers to be equipped with enough personnel. I'll fill out one more piece of information. Here the amendment follows the previous two, which were discussed here in the House during the last parliamentary term. It was the so-called market pillar from the fourth railway package. We discussed this before the covid, sometime in 2018 and 2019, was effective from 2020 and then followed the technical pillar. It introduces requirements for the approval of vehicles, for the possibility of their operation on the track and so on, I will not go back to this unnecessarily. It has worked since last February or has been effective since February 2022. In my performance, I will mention only two things or point out two things. In the original material in the explanatory memorandum, which was submitted for the government's meeting, the Ministry also described what it wanted to put into the law beyond implementation legislation, and it is the so-called institute of interruption of the operation and operation of the runway, in other words the term we called - and now I am returning to those last amendments in the last parliamentary term - the issue of the so-called conservation of the runway. This was quite a sensitive and emotional topic for the professional but also lay railway public. Let me just remind you that it was an amendment that I was the author of. It aimed at such logic that if there is no interest in the regional path anywhere in the Republic, there is no further interest from the customers, primarily the regions, but of course also the municipalities, and the state should continue to invest in it according to the law, because that is how the law instructs it to find a kind of legal entity, where the runway will be interrupted, when the operation will be so-called interrupted, if you want to be preserved. [[11.20 hours]] Finally, we did not discuss the proposal in the past period. Here I can, I don't mean to be self-critical, but I can also acknowledge that this needs to be discussed very carefully and to have it tuned up with the Regional Association, with the orderers involved. But it pointed to the problems that he was talking about publicly, I can say this here, my colleague Karel Havlíček, so that it doesn't exactly happen how it happened in Central Bohemia, where the state spills, invests really tens of millions in new lines, and then in the region, and maybe I don't want to be specific that in Central Bohemia, it can happen anywhere in the Republic, exchange any political representation that decides not to use those lines, and that money is actually invested for nothing. But this performance is not critical, I understand that the Ministry really wants to discuss it carefully so that there is an interplay or consistency between all the participants in the railway market, the railway events, so even if it was described in the initial explanatory report for the government's meeting, it is not yet in the law, at this time in the Houses of Press 332, as it is presented here, as we are beginning to discuss it. And I see, I can say positively, and the Minister's visa, that we will leave the standard time limits to discuss this law in committees. I assume that this is the topic that we will focus on at least on the Economic Committee, or I will see that the rapporteur is the chairman of the transport committee, so, of course, colleagues, I cannot speak for you, we will see how you will decide whether we should also address this in the subcommittee on transport. Let's see what, with what version of this institute, which, I'll just point out, experts from the world of railroads, people who know the principles, how they function, they call it having some sense and leading to the efficiency of spending or investing state resources. So let's see if we can find a consensus between the coalition and the opposition and get a sufficient number of votes here. So much for this proposal here in my speech I want to draw attention to or update one topic that is indirectly related to the law, and this is the issue of engineers, the number of engineers. Quite significantly - I've noticed - their numbers are dropping. You saw last year, sometime in September or the previous year there were about 10,500, now in the year-on-year comparison, last autumn the number of newly issued or renewed licences fell by about a tenth, now some 9,500, more than a thousand are no longer renewed. It can be suspected that this is because retired people, elderly people, older workers, don't renew their licenses anymore, they don't actually go back into the business. And from these trends, it is noticeable that the new ones that are being released are not so large a quantity, so sufficient. Here I will remind you, it has a link to legislation, that in the previous amendment during the previous government we have been very consistent with the issue of railway safety, working conditions and licensing of drivers. We put into law the so-called MLS - monitoring the driver's license, which was supposed to bring improvements. But, as I have noted, the Ministry of Transport did sometime in the middle of last year - please, I do not remember exactly if it was at the turn of July, August - sometimes in the summer a questionnaire survey was carried out between drivers, what problems they have, what works, what doesn't work. The answers resulted from some things, suggestions for the Ministry that can be dealt with without law: greater work with tablets, with digital tools, clarification of regulations and so on. This is a matter with which it makes no sense to delay here at the House plenary because it is really a matter of either the implementing decree or then the internal regulations of both carriers and the Railway Administration, but I repeat, there is also a link to the monitoring of the driver's license, to the control of their work and also to the penalty system. So here, too, I want - it's not meant to be critical on my part - to mention this to the petitioners that we have the problem here, and maybe he's not up to date today, but he can come in six months, a year, two. You know what it's like in any field of personalism, with human labor, it's just something you don't change in a week or a month. And maybe it would be a good idea for the Economic Committee to try and get back to this, if the previous amendment worked, or if we could just say it was easier to work and perhaps even more attractive for the drivers here in the House, so that we could look at this topic and try to address it within the Committee. Otherwise, I repeat the introduction of my speech: I consider the amendment to be uncontroversial in terms of the implementation of European regulations, and I can inform the Minister that he should have support from our side in this vote. Thank you for your word, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-006-015.u7	Thank you, and since I no longer see anyone else in the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not. And since neither the motion to return nor to refuse has been made, I therefore call on my colleagues from the hall, because we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We'll wait a little while longer before we proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the economic committee as a guarantee? Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 163 Members and Members signed in for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Economic Committee for discussion as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone like that, so thank you for your cooperation. I'm done discussing this point. Initiating item number
