ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u1	7. Government bill on public auctions / House print 360/ - first reading On behalf of the government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister for Digitization and the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš... I don't see the Minister. I'm gonna ask if there's another member of the government who's gonna state the bill? [[Comments from Mr Michálek and Mrs Ožan off the microphone.]] The minister ran to get the evidence from my sources. I'll ask the Prime Minister, maybe he'll take a break until then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'd like a four-minute recess at the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u3	Thank you. I'm interrupting our meeting for four minutes. We'll continue at 18.40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u4	So it's 18.40, we'll continue. As I said before, we are discussing the Government's bill on public auctions, House press 360, we are at first reading, and I will ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš to give his opening statement. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I come before you with a proposal for a new law on public auctions, which has replaced the old legislation for almost a quarter of a century. The currently in force Act on public auctions is already largely outdated by nature and did not, for example, count on the implementation of auctions in an electronic way at the time of its creation, which is currently the prevailing option. Among the main objectives of the Act on Public Auctions are mainly harmonisation of the Act on Public Auctions with the Civil Code, more precise regulation of electronic auctions directly in the law, strengthening the enforcement of statutory obligations, simplifying the auction process and electronising the publication of information on public auctions and auctions using the new information system central registration of public auctions. In contrast to the current law No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, there is a fundamental conceptual change in the issue of the acquisition of the object of the auction. At present, in a public auction, ownership is passed by an extension. However, the new concept of public auction will reflect the Civil Code, which sees the auction as a special way of concluding the contract. The proposal also respects, as far as possible, the subsidiarity application of the Civil Code. The Act on Public Auctions will also include the procedural regulation of electronic auctions, which is now only regulated at the level of the implementing decree. There is further simplification and some liberalisation of the auction process itself, particularly in the case of auctions now referred to as voluntary auctions. This will significantly reduce the administrative burden and costs associated with the implementation of the public auction. Fines are newly introduced for infringement of certain essential obligations of the auctioneer in order to better protect the rights of the persons concerned by the public auction. The draft law on public auctions has already been submitted once to the Chamber of Deputies, namely in June 2020. Although he was included many times in the previous period, unfortunately, his turn did not work out, and he did not have time to discuss it in the previous parliamentary term. The bill is now being tabled again, only with minimum adjustments. These are changes following the newly adopted legislation and several legislative technical adaptations, including a shift in the date of entry into force. Within the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, all comments have been settled and I believe that the bill will receive your broad support and will soon proceed to the next phase of the legislative process. So much for my introduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u6	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, to take the floor. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u7	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Regional Development has submitted a draft law on public auctions repealing Law No 1 on public auctions. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, and completely replaces it. The draft law was first submitted in June 2020, but was not discussed by the end of the parliamentary term. This is probably the reason why the material has now been granted an exception from the interdepartmental commentary procedure. It should be noted at the outset that more than thousands of auctions take place annually. In 2020, it was 1 493 auctions, in 2021 it was 1 225 auctions, and in 2022 it was 1 067 auctions. The number of auctions is apparently decreasing gradually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u8	I understand, my colleague. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that we can hear the rapporteur's report in peace. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u9	The reasons for submitting the proposal are mainly problems which are applied by law No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions occurred in practice. Firstly, it is a non-compliance with the Civil Code, in particular a different way of acquiring ownership in an auction under the Act on Public Auctions and Auctions pursuant to Section 1771 of the Civil Code, the excess of certain parts of the Act on Public Auctions after the entry into force of the new Civil Code, the non-application of certain provisions of the Act on Public Auctions following the adoption of the new Civil Code and the lack of update of certain terms. Another reason for submitting the proposal is the lack of adjustments to the auctions carried out electronically. The possibility to carry out auctions and electronically was introduced by Act No. 396/2012 Coll., which introduced procedures, but which were not applicable in procedural arrangements under the Act on Public Auctions. The later amendment authorised the Ministry to issue an implementing decree to lay down the conditions for the electronic auction procedure. Decree No. 18/2014 Coll., on the establishment of the terms of the electronic auction procedure, took effect on 30 January 2014. During the legislative process relating to that decree, the Law Gesture was brought to the attention of the fact that the process of electronic auction itself should be regulated directly in the law and the decree should address only technical and security requirements for electronic auction systems. Therefore, the regulation of the process of electronic auctions by law is one of the priorities of the newly prepared draft law. Another reason for the proposal is the non-existent sanctions in breach of essential legal obligations, which contributes to the situation where some auctioneers do not knowingly comply with some of the provisions of the Act on public auctions, with the fact that they are not in any danger of being punished by the supervisory authority for such behaviour. Another reason for submitting the proposal is the unnecessary administrative burden on the addressees of the law. So much for the reasons for submitting a bill. The economic impact on the state budget must also be taken into account when assessing the draft law. The new legislation envisages the creation of the Central Register of Public Auctions, which will be administered by the Ministry of Regional Development. The costs of creating this system are considered in the amount of CZK 8 131 200. A very surprising figure seems to be such a very precise amount, but for me, it's more of a smile, and then I'll ask the Minister how they were able to calculate it so accurately. The annual operating costs are to be approximately CZK 500,000. These costs will be covered within the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development chapter without additional requirements for the state budget. The proposal does not foresee an increase in personnel capacity and the related amount of staff salaries. The draft law provides for the adoption of the implementing legislation of the Ministry of Regional Development. The decree is intended to contain details of the data transmitted to the central records by means of an electronic form, the method of verification of these data and the method of logging into the central records. It shall also include technical and safety requirements. A transitional provision is also an important element of the draft law, which addresses the procedure for auctions carried out on the basis of a contract concluded before the date of entry into force of this law and the treatment of data on auctions executed on the basis of an auction contract or repeated auctions concluded before the date of entry into force of this law. The acquisition of efficiency is proposed for January 1, 2024.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u10	If this is the end of your report, thank you very much, rapporteur, and I am opening up a debate, a general debate which Mrs Štefanová is the first to report to. Madame, please, you have the floor. Before you arrive at the speaker's counter, I will make two apologies: Mr Koten Radek apologizes from 18.30 for business reasons, and another apology is from Minister Kupka, from 6 pm he apologizes for work reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, comment on the draft amendment to the Act on public auctions. The main objective of the proposal is, in particular, the harmonisation of the legislation on public auctions with the general regulation contained in the Civil Code. Other objectives of this proposal include a more precise regulation of electronic auctions, strengthening the legal certainty of the entities concerned in the context of the auction process and the enforcement of statutory obligations, making the auction process more effective and eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens. The draft law will be designed in such a way that it is possible to impose a penalty in the form of a cash penalty for breach of the essential obligations laid down by law. The income from these fines is considered up to CZK 1 million per year in the Treasury. For auctioneers, the proposed legislation will in particular mean simplifying the auction process, eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and reducing costs related to the preparation and implementation of the auction. Partial liberalisation of the rules on ownership, i.e. voluntary auctions and new ways of licensing will also contribute to a higher interest in auctions under this legal regulation, which will, inter alia, be positively reflected in the revenues of auctioneers, including in the income of the State from the contributions of this group of entrepreneurs. The elimination of non-compliance with the Civil Code and the Act governing the public auction will contribute to the higher legal certainty of the consumer, i.e. the auction participant or the person whose rights are affected by the auction. At the same time, the new legislation will extend the circle of persons who may file a motion for annulment of the contract concluded by the adjective. Under the current arrangements, it was a very strictly defined circle of persons who fulfilled the legal conditions and to some extent limiting. Furthermore, the rules for the implementation of electronic auctions will be more comprehensive in the law. The SPD generally supports reducing administrative burdens and increasing legal certainty for entrepreneurs and citizens, which is why we will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u12	Thank you. The next one is registered by Vice-President Dostálová. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I could not, of course, miss the opportunity to speak to this bill because it came out of my workshop - a bit uncompromisingly - because at that time I was Minister for Regional Development. It must be said that, contrary to the proposal submitted to the House by our government, that is, the Government of Andrej Babiš, there are only minor changes in the present proposal relating to the adoption of Act No. 261/2021 Coll., which amends certain laws in connection with the further electronisation of the procedures of public authorities, that is, the release of § 59 and the modification in Section 3, which referred to it. Several legislative technical errors, such as the inconsistent use of the legislative abbreviation of the central record, are also being corrected and the efficiency date is being shifted. Maybe I'll actually poke out what's actually the subject of the legislation. It's about four, five points. The first is therefore a non-compliance with the Civil Code. The point here is that there is a different way of acquiring ownership in an auction under the existing law and under the Civil Code, so of course this must be brought into line. Furthermore, there is a lack of auction arrangements carried out electronically. The regulation is currently very large in the law and is only implemented in the decree, so it is also newly put into the new Act on public auctions. Furthermore, this new law responds to non-existent sanctions in breach of essential legal obligations and, of course, removes the unnecessary administrative burden on the addressees. For auctioneers, the proposed legislation will in particular mean simplifying the auction process, eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens and reducing costs related to the preparation and implementation of the public auction. The proposal will have positive effects on local authorities, which are auctioneers directly by law, such as private auctioneers, or entrepreneurs, the business sector. The new legislation envisages the creation of the Central Register of Public Auctions, which will be managed by the Ministry of Regional Development. The rapporteur has already spoken about the cost of creating this system. Perhaps just to remind you - 8.1 million in one time, the annual cost of operation then about 500,000 crowns. The income from the fines is considered at the rate of CZK 1 million per year. The overall benefits of the private sector consisting in particular of the modification of the publication of auction documents, the abolition of the obligation to estimate the price of the subject of the public auction and the inspection of public auctions on a proposal from the owner, the modification of delivery and, in some cases, the abolition of the requirements for official verification of signatures representing benefits in absolute terms of around 28 million per year. In particular, for so-called auctioneers who have made an auction outside the regime of the existing law, the new legislation may constitute costs related to the fulfilment of obligations under the newly adopted Act on public auctions. This is, for example, an obligation to be insured in the event of liability for damage or the introduction of electronic auction systems into compliance with the law and implementing decree. The fulfilment of these obligations will represent costs which are estimated at around 7 million per annum and then approximately 2 million crowns per year. However, I am convinced that it would be worth it, and we have already discussed this with the rapporteur, to do a seminar on the subject, because these are, of course, things that are of particular interest to the local authorities - auction, auction, exchange. It is really important to talk about these things, because there are a lot of local authorities here at a time of expensive energy and so on they are not talking about public auctions, but rather about auction or stock exchange, and of course it is good that these things are linked and that this life really makes it easier for the local authorities in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u14	Thank you very much, that was the last one entered into the general debate so far. I'm not applying to the general debate, I'm still looking into the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in from the scene. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate on this point. I am asking for an interest in the final words of the petitioner and rapporteur. Mr. Secretary? There's no interest in the final word. The rapporteur doesn't have... Well, that's it. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u15	Maybe I'll just respond. I also mentioned that the proposal was from the previous period, that the changes were rather technical and in terms of effectiveness. I was actually pleased when I had the opportunity to talk to the professional community, which moves in the field of various electronic auctions and eBays, when they actually said that it also corresponds to some standards that are common in this, say, commercial world of different online stocks. [[auction?]] And I just wanted to respond to the challenge of a possible seminar on these types of self-government. With me, this is what Honza Fuksa deals with, and we're taking the subject as our own, so we're very happy to do this here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-004-007.u16	Yes, thank you, Minister. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 45, 142 Members were signed in, 103 voted in favour, there was no one against it. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone. If this is not the case, I am ending the discussion of the point, or the Government's draft law on public auctions, or its first reading, and I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[19.00 hours]] And we'll move on to the next point that's
