ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u1	68. The proposal of Members of Andrej Babiš, Aleš Juchelka and others to issue a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended /German Press 232/ - First Reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 232/1 and I ask that Mr Andrej Babiš present the proposal as the appellant. [[He's not present.]] Once again, Mr Babiš should state the House press as the appellants. [[Member Juchelka is reporting.]] Are you Mr. Babiš? [[No, I'm Mr. Juchelka. - Laughter.]] Okay, so it's not Andrej Babiš for the plaintiff, it's Mr. Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Perhaps in February we will see who will report as Chairman of the YES movement. [[He's laughing.]] Dear colleagues, it is 12.15. I've been trying to draft a bill, that's a criminal code, just like we've had here for a year and a half. It is the case that teaching workers are currently increasingly facing various attacks on their physical integrity, especially on the part of their pupils, and this, of course, goes hand in hand in hand with the fact that these people are subject to various stress and risk situations today and daily in the performance of their pedagogical activities, yet the current legislation does not give them any special protection for cases of violence on them, whether physical or violence against their will. There, of course, we proceeded to create this amendment of the law from practical things in some localities, where teachers really face increased pressure not only from teachers but also from their parents. It is therefore proposed that teaching staff, like medical staff, be classified only as protected victims in the sense that the commission of selected offences, such as grievous bodily injury, bodily harm, murder or dangerous threats, will constitute the qualified nature of the offence in question, with the possibility of imposing a more severe penalty on its perpetrators. This is a concept that is known to the current criminal law, and therefore it is not a new one in this regard. All we care about is that these teachers are assigned to the list. It's really a small novel. At the same time, it does not seem appropriate to introduce a new institute of protected persons only for pedagogical staff, as is the case in Slovakia. Of course, it would be appropriate to consider this when other categories of victims, such as pregnant women, senior citizens, disability, children and so on, should be included in this category for the same purposes. [[12.20 hours]] On the other hand, the described benefit will not be reduced by the increased responsibilities of teaching staff, as if they were included among the existing Institute of Officials. This responsibility would consist of criminal liability for the misuse of the authority of an official and for the failure to comply with the qualifying facts of the selected offences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u3	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask my colleagues to transfer their discussions to the lobby or to keep them quiet, because there's so much noise in the room that it's difficult for you to understand. We'll wait. It's not quiet yet. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u4	The proposed legislation is intended to act primarily in general preventive terms, but it aims also to send a clear signal to the teaching staff that the state appreciates them and appreciates their work, as is the case with the medical staff already mentioned. Thank you so much, that was my opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Josef Cogan, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up as rapporteur technically. We're discussing a criminal code for the press. Application for amendment of Act No. 40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code, as it was presented, is really newly building teaching staff among a specially protected group of victims in terms of the severity of the crime committed. Thus, for example, murder, grievous bodily harm, bodily harm, dangerous threats to pedagogical workers would be punished at a higher rate of criminal punishment. The proposed legislation, as the petitioner said, is a reaction to attacks that have been in the past against pedagogical workers, especially among pupils, students at this time. At the same time, I note that the Government has taken a dissenting position on this press, which has been distributed to Members, as mentioned, by press 32/1. That's all on my side so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u7	Thank you. I am now opening a general debate to which Mrs Berkovcová is the first to report. Before arriving at the counter, I will make an apology: within 12 hours, Mrs Fialová Eva apologizes for health reasons, Mr Sadovskýý Petr apologizes until 10.30 hours for work reasons, Mr Smetana Karel apologizes for the whole day for work reasons, and Mrs Voborská Milada apologises from 13:00 on business grounds. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. At present, educational workers are facing increasingly aggressive attacks mainly by their pupils, but sometimes also by their parents. They are exposed to stressful and risky situations today and daily in the performance of their pedagogical activities. Nevertheless, the current legislation does not give them any special protection in cases of violence against them. According to a survey by the Association, a safe school is a major problem for the aggressiveness of pupils in educational institutions. The survey was attended by 569 schools, of which in 45 in recent years they had to deal with the physical assault of the teacher. In 166 cases, the teacher was attacked by the parent of the pupil. Especially complex conditions must be faced by tutors in children's homes, educational institutions, diagnostic institutes where clients have behavioral disorders, various pathology, pupils aggressive and with criminal history, and these workers must be with them every day, day and night. However, the situation in mainstream primary and secondary schools is also getting worse. I asked a number of schools what the security situation there is, what the school climate is, what the moods and feelings of teachers about the behaviour of pupils. It was a very sad listening, a very sad conversation. Teachers complain that they have no competence, opportunities, pupils know it well, they show it to the teacher and in an outrageous way undermine the teaching. School staff, and not only teachers, all staff, are tired, overworked, losing motivation and appetite for work. Among the most common forms of negative behavior given by teachers were aggressive attacks on classmates, as well as on teachers, vulgar attacks on classmates, as well as on teachers, including physical attacks, disregarding teacher's instructions in hours, breaks, destruction of school property, theft, sexual innuendoes to teachers, obstruction of teaching, when pupils shout dirty after teachers, aggressive attacks on administrative staff, janitors, cleaning women and so on. And what are their options? How are schools trying to deal with this situation? Unfortunately, they don't have a lot of school options. It's just a variety of disciplinary measures, minutes, meetings with parents, if they get them, and if parents come in, interviews with students, reports for the OSPOD, for the police, for the misdemeanor commission, reports from the hours...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u9	I understand, Madame. I will ask my colleague and colleagues again - I will also ask Mrs Nováková. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u10	Thank you, too. Reporting from hours, which is a method that cannot be used in the long term and for all. It can't even be handled by personnel. Also, enhanced surveillance does not work very well. In extreme cases, schools call the city police or rescue services, because the Police of the Czech Republic often refuse to come until something happens. And how does school work with parents? Here too, there is aggressiveness of legal representatives towards school employees, there are vulgar verbal attacks on other school employees who may not be allowed to enter school or call teachers who are busy or teaching. Parents accuse workers of racism, throwing parental responsibility at them. They don't come to school if they're invited, they don't go to interviews or class meetings, they don't want to cooperate with the OSPOD. Schools often resort to both aggression and criminal charges. What I described is a common situation in mainstream schools. Teachers face this every day, so they don't even talk about it very publicly. At times, however, a case that, unfortunately, ends tragically and stirs up a debate on the safety of pedagogical workers will resonate in the media. Everything will be quiet again later. Let us now recall some cases from past years, only quickly and briefly. Last year's 31st March will remain a day that completely paralyzed Czech schools. A middle school teacher took a machete to his teacher. After many interventions in the head, neck, and back, doctors could no longer help, the teacher died. In 2019, a sixth grade student in Bílina slapped one of the teachers in front of her classmates. In the same year in a high school in Hradecku, two men came to the teacher, and because the son of one of them was threatened by a five, both men first attacked the teacher verbally and then physically struck him several times. From the cabinet then with a threat of severe damage, if the son doesn't have a four, they left. In 2015, a polytechnic high school student in Olomouc attacked a teacher, punched him in the face with his fist, assaulted by a teacher after the attack he fell unconscious. And another older case, even a college student beat the teacher with a softball bat. I'm sure I've forgotten some cases. I just want to say that from everything I have said, it is clear that educators deserve increased legislative protection and that the proposed legislation is necessary. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u11	Thank you. Mrs Lesenská will be next, Mrs Oulehlová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u12	Mr President, colleagues, the aim of the proposal is to amend the law and it wants to include teaching staff in selected offences with specially protected persons. We have heard here how educators in their activities are being attacked, both physically and mentally, and their activities are really getting more and more demanding in recent times. In fact, the amendment would allow the perpetrators of this violence to be imposed more severe penalties on the pedagogians. [[12.30 hours]] The Pedagogical Chamber has long drawn attention to this violence committed on teachers, and politicians are calling on us to address this problem. It is not a legislative novelty, in Slovakia teachers have the status of protected persons, and this proposal is actually very similar with the fact that teachers here would be an official person. The SPD will join the proposal and support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u13	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Oulehlová, Mr Kohajda will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, gentlemen, I would rather take this from the experience of the former mayor, now the mayor of the city, where unfortunately there are socially excluded localities. Our teachers often find themselves in difficult situations both from children and unfortunately from parents. We as a city have even secured some sort of - it's called surveillance service, which is actually already at the entrance to schools to capture the first risks that may occur. Unfortunately, I also had to deal with situations that shouldn't even belong in school, and that was in front of the teacher's entire class. I also had to deal with and turn to the Czech School Inspection, when the family of a troubled pupil entered the fourth grade and wanted to deal with specific children. And when the teacher banished them, the family just complained about the Czech School Inspectorate. Unfortunately, the conclusion was that the teacher should apologize. At that moment, as a council, we stood up for the teacher. But there doesn't have to be a consensus in every city that we have to protect the decent ones against the screamers. And I just really want to appeal to the fact that a teacher, and not just a teacher, but even all school employees must also have peace of mind, they must have a decent working environment, because I think from my parents, too, because in class I guess that's not possible anymore, and there are actually pressures - it's really hard. There are no teachers. It is important, responsible employment, and it is extremely important that they feel from us, from the legislators, that we stand behind them, that we appreciate their work, but that we want to protect them from those who may need to go through basic education again, to learn what they can and cannot do in life. So I'm too much of an accomplice to stand up for the protection of teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Kohajda will now appear, Mr Kettner will be prepared. [[Mr Kettner approaches the speaker's counter.]] But I'm going to interrupt you because we have two factual points. So Mrs Adámková will be the first to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like, ladies and gentlemen, to supplement my honored colleague with a realization. Our educators, as you well know, despite our efforts, are not fully appreciated, we all know that, and unfortunately, such respect for the educators, in which the older generation was probably raised, is not much to wear nowadays. I must say that I have a few experiences of my own when a secondary school teacher was brought in during emergency service, I warn, not some other where he did not evaluate the student as he wished, because he was threatened with some kind of forfeiture and the like, and hit him with a globe. It ended up in surgery by sewing and stuff. The next thing is kicking a pregnant teacher with a ninth grade student, bringing her back to the hospital. And it's not a show, it's really a fact that happened, which I've been to. And I very much beg and hope that the negative position we have heard from the government is not because Mr Babiš and Mr Juchelka are making this proposal. I firmly hope that you will consider your decision very carefully, because our educators, let us be aware, are not even well rated financially and are getting - and it is a matter of society, unfortunately, which thinks that they can afford everything, which we should show that they do not - they are in danger of their own health, and that can therefore also be a threat to life. I would ask you very much to consider your decision, because it would be good to address this issue and really give the educators their very important place in our society. And if they don't feel at least this support, it's really a group of people who are actually helpless in that class. They can't control who's coming to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u17	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brázdil will now speak with a factual remark and Mr Lang will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u18	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I would only speak in this respect. I wish it to all the teachers to be protected, but the experience that comes from the paramedics - we're a little bit protected - ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't work. Of course, you often say: Yes, so you drive but where there is a wiped consciousness, these are people drunk, under the dope of different and so on, there is logic that it doesn't work. But also the exits that are into families, wherever there should be a normal atmosphere, we just don't have it written on our forehead: Watch out, don't attack, you may be more punished. It really doesn't work. If it were to work, it would have to get a lot of popularity and somehow push it into society to stop the attacker at that moment, he said, "Oh, maybe I'll have a higher sentence, then it would make a little bit of sense. But again, we, the paramedics, or I, 33 years old, aren't working, and that's why we're also trained to defend ourselves, and we have some self-defense training and some means, so in itself: a good idea, sure, fine, let it pass, but it doesn't work very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u19	Mr Lang will now make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u20	Thank you, Mr President. That's not how I originally wanted to perform, but I have a personal experience. For three years, I worked as a tutor at a secondary industrial school, which is the first teaching worker. It's the workers who are getting a little loaded now, because they shouldn't actually be getting paid, and any protection of the teaching staff in general these days, I'm sure I'll be plotting for it. And if it gets into another debate, in that case, I am ready to join the classic debate. Let me give you an example of myself. When an 18-year-old teenage student orders you a cash watch for 1.5 million crowns, you get a note saying you have to pick them up at the post office, then you just have to file a criminal report so you don't have to pay for it. When another teenage student at an eight-storey boarding school spins all the taps with a hydrant and washes out your entire boarding school when another student isn't threatening you, mostly to your colleagues, because you'd be slow to look at those boarding schools, because they're quite poorly paid, and some rude family kids are in these schools, and they don't respect anything - when they're sticking their educator matches in your lock so you can't turn the key when they put a bag of flour over your door, when you open the door, it falls on your head, these are the real cases of today's high-school industrial schools. When I was alone in there 35 years ago as a student, today those tutors who are already retired or are already dead would be really surprised what students we have today. [[12.40 hours]] The very minimum possibilities we have today to deal with. They're guidance counselors, there are parents who don't even come often. When they come, they're still defending their naughty little children. And so that it doesn't grow up - even in our country it happened that there was an attack on a student who attacked a tutor, which was, of course, excluded, but they are extreme cases. I was there as a man, I have some weight, so maybe I wasn't afraid, but there are mostly coworkers who deserve some protection. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u21	Thank you. Mrs Zajíčková, Mrs Nováková, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u22	I will be short, of course I perceive this problem as seriously as the petitioners. I've been moving around in education my whole life. We all agree that aggression in society is increasing significantly. On the other hand, I am not convinced that this is the right way. However, I am ready to discuss it, to discuss it, and therefore I will include this item, this topic, at the June meeting of the subcommittee on regional education, where we will invite experts, lawyers, representatives of various associations to discuss it. And I believe that I will not be able to vote for this in the current form in which the bill is proposed, because there I find fundamental shortcomings, inaccuracies, however, as I say again, the subject is serious. I agree with many previous speakers, but I repeat, it will be the subject of the subcommittee on regional education, and I invite everyone who is interested in this topic to come to the subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u23	Thank you for keeping time. It will continue with Mrs Nováková's factual remark. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to take the liberty of following up on what the Chair of the Sub-Committee on Regional Education has said, and I thank her very much for this proposal, and at the same time I would like to say that, with the agreement of the Chair of the Permanent Committee on Family, Mrs Jílková, we realise that this is also a matter of family policy, because one thing is that we will try to protect the teachers, and I agree with that, even though I will not vote in favour of it now, but the second thing is that we should emphasise once again that parents are responsible for the healthy physical, psychological and moral development of children, and that is also part of the family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u25	Thank you and we are returning to the general debate. Mr Kohajda will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very short, perhaps I should have taken a factual one. Of course I do - I support this subject, it is definitely important. Attacking a teacher is a very unpleasant matter. I am just concerned that this is the right instrument to resolve the situation, whether the instrument of criminal law is where we should be focusing our efforts. Now, we've heard here about a set-up bag of flour above the door or matches that are stuck in the locks. Of course, this is not something that should be dealt with in criminal law, and therefore this change will not help. It's probably about lack of respect for teachers, maybe morality in society. I certainly look forward to an interesting discussion if this proposal goes further, because I think it has many layers, not just the criminal one, but the broader one - moral one. The only thing I'm a little sorry about is that we often make unjustified differences here between teaching staff and academic staff. Lately, I have a feeling that teaching workers are very favorable against academic workers, often for no reason. That is precisely why, if we were to move forward in these discussions, I would certainly be in favour of including academic workers in this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u27	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. Mr Hendrych Igor will speak first, Mr Mašek Jiří will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u28	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief and, in essence, I will give a positive assessment of what my previous speaker, Mr Kohajda, said. When I read this and read the Government's statement on this press, I was just curious that this bill should probably aim for academic workers and that they are left out of the process. I am in favour of a possible amendment to the category of protected persons being included in the academic staff of universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u29	Thank you. Mr Mašek will follow you, Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to follow up on my three previous speakers - colleagues Lang, Kohajda and Hendrych - and I would like to follow up on the fact that there really should be criminal offences, simply matters, crimes, and there I would be travelling for protection to be similar to that of the medical rescue service, and I would not see it at a major debate. I think that teachers and academics just deserve it. And something else is completely here to talk about in some committee for the family and in other committees about how to raise children, how it should look, because that is something completely different. But the fact that crime would be at a higher rate, for crimes against pedagogical and academic workers, could be a fairly rapid consensus and we could place them there. And in response to Mr Brázdil's colleague, that it will not manifest itself: it is about the need - today it is popular to talk about sending signals - the signal to send really into society that the higher penalties are harmful there. [[Is there a threat?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Nováková's point of fact. I take it Mrs. Peštová checked out? All right, Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u32	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to what has just been said. The problem is that, in fact, the risky behaviour or undesirable behaviour of pupils concerns, as we all know, underage children, and I wanted to - so I don't want to send signals, but each school should actually show, and we should all show that parents are responsible. Just parents are responsible for raising children, and the adults are - it is a problem what to do with a 15 - year - old child. That's what I mean if we wanted to be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u33	Thank you, Madame. With another factual point, Mrs Oulehlová is reporting. Before arriving at the table, I will add three apologies: Vice-President Dostálová Klára apologizes from 13:00 for reasons of work, Mr Helebrant Tomáš apologizes within 10 hours for reasons of work and Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová Jana apologises from 14:30 for family reasons. Madame, you have two minutes to make a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u34	I'd just like to respond to a colleague, honored Nina Nováková. Unfortunately, we also have to protect teachers from parents here, so parents are often not asked to raise their children decently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u35	We are going back to the general debate. I will ask Mr Kohajda. Excuse me, Mr Kettner Zdeněk will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague, Lesenská, has already mentioned that we will, of course, support this. I'm standing here now as a representative of teachers and teachers. Indeed, the society has grossed itself, radicalized itself, but let us reach into our conscience, and it is our fault. When I talk about promoting school policy, violating school law, let us realize that parents are different voters, and if there is a party fan or a member of a party that the parent doesn't cheer for, then of course, it will upset the outrage, or we are recording a little bit of the conflicts at school. Anyway, 100% teachers deserve protection. Here it wasn't going to solve the problem. It's definitely not gonna solve the problem. We will have to focus on this in some time frame, in order to actually do so to limit these problems to a minimum in some way. But this, what we're talking about right now, that's the minimum for teachers who, when I say this, are on the first line to help them in some way, so I'm sure the SPD club will support this, and the teachers deserve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u37	Thank you. That was Mr Kettner. And another one for the general debate is Mr Haas - so far the last one entered into the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u38	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote against this proposal for seven reasons in principle. I think they're relatively brief, understandable, even to non-lawyers. Firstly, the changes to the basic codes - and I think that this argument that I am consistent in it, I have mentioned it many times, and the criminal code between the basic codes of this country I certainly rank - we should all leave it to the government, we should all have some elemental degree of restraint within us, and we should always leave changes to the basic codes in the complete legislative process where the expert office, that is to say, in cooperation with the actors, in this case with the judiciary, with judges, with the probation mediation service, evaluate the impact of such a change. The second reason this proposal is an obvious response to a lot, and I say this with full seriousness, sad specific cases, especially recent cases, but criminal law is not to be changed on the basis of a response to even very sad cases of assault, or even godless death attacks by cantors. This is no way to change criminal law in any normal country - in response to specific individual cases. The third reason is that, and I think the government drew attention to it in its opinion, the proposal uses the concept of pedagogical workers. This concept is in accordance with the law on pedagogical workers, but the deed or tightened facts continue in the performance of pedagogical activity and in connection with it and the concept of pedagogical activity and the connection with it is no longer defined. And let me give you an example here. This does not have a link to the law on pedagogical workers or to the school law. Who you are here from education, I have only a large part of the family there, so you know that according to the school law and the educational system there are a lot of other activities going on, even some previous speakers mentioned accommodation in boarding schools and so on, but this is not a pedagogical activity, so it is not your proposal - a concrete example of the fact that the proposal really has legislative, content and material defects. Fourthly, the proposal does not aim at many other human professions that also work with children, there may be conflict situations that will end badly for God's sake. So what about other youth groups - coaches, logopers, psychologists and so on? He's not thinking about the bill at all. Fifth, I have actually combined with the previous point that the school law defines a lot of other activities, agendas, workplaces, workplaces, where children are working in some way in the Czech education system, whether they are the school accommodation facilities mentioned by me, whether they are educational establishments, youth homes, school sports clubs and so on. The law doesn't think about them either. The last two reasons - slightly valued, but related to the law: if we want to defend pedagogical workers, the proposal is clearly aimed primarily at young people, and with regard to the limit of criminality in the Czech Republic, this means youth between the 15th and 18th years. We really want - and I am surprised by my colleagues, who are also members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee - after we have heard great talk in Kroměříž about how they have adopted the whole concept of criminal law in Slovakia, given how we are talking about restorative justice in the area of criminal law, how we are talking about the fact that we should probably not bring up the worst bazookas of criminal law altogether - so this proposal is completely against that. So we forget about the special legal protection of teenagers, forget about the principles of restorative justice, forget about the fact that teenagers should be treated more sensitively than adults? The law is as if it had forgotten, because it is not written in it, but primarily directed to children between the ages of 15 and 18. Well, then I have a pretty big problem with that. And last point: please, if we are living in the belief that juvenile offenders - and I will never defend them, I just think they deserve a different approach from adult offenders - then who, please, reads the criminal code from juvenile offenders? Are we really living in the illusion that by changing several paragraphs of the Penal Code, we will prevent juvenile offenders from committing possible crimes? I think that's a complete illusion, and that's not how the world works. None of the juvenile offenders read the criminal code. Today on other points we talked about education and I'm glad that one of the previous speakers, now I don't know which one, mentioned it. After all, we should prevent these negative phenomena primarily by bringing up family education, by not being part of the Czech rule of law - and by asking you, I do not mean a debate on same-sex unions - that we will not bring nonsense into the Czech rule of law that family education will work lovingly, but strictly that education in schools will work with children, but very strictly that we will give schools the tools to raise these children, not to overwhelm schools with bureaucracy. That's the seventh reason. For all these seven reasons, I submit in accordance with § 90 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, a motion for refusal. I didn't mind the debate at all, I don't mind the fact that we put the point in, but I'm filing a motion to reject the motion at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u39	Yes. Thank you for your performance. I mean, the motion to dismiss at first reading. At this point, Mr Feranec is reporting with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Just a very quick reaction to what my colleague Haas said. Of course, juvenile offenders or generally don't read the criminal code, but there's some sort of general awareness that this is being handled differently, which can already affect behavior. I say it can. It's not about real reading the penal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u41	Thank you for keeping time. At this point, I do not have anyone enrolled in the general debate or on a factual point. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Yes, Mr. Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u42	I'm only gonna react for a short time, like, one minute. I do not like what Mr Haas has said here, because that means that we should not do anything because it is for young people. On the contrary, for example, this is directed at the parents of the youths. Pedagogists meet with threats from their parents. For example, if we have a 15 - year - old, 16 - year - old or even 17 - year - old boy in primary school in ninth grade because he fails twice, there may indeed be fear in teachers. Yes, psychologists, speechists, and coaches are, of course, not teaching workers. Because we have compulsory schooling, only teachers really struggle with it. Coaches, they train motivated kids. Logopedia, they have a function too. There are no children who are primarily harmed by logos, not to mention psychologists at all. We're looking at a trend here, and that's the third argument that it's not a reaction to individual cases, but it's a response to an ever-increasing trend in primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u43	Thank you for the final word. I'll ask the rapporteur if he's interested. He's not interested in the final word. [[13.00 hours]] We should therefore now proceed to the vote. I'll rejoin so that colleagues from the lobby can arrive. First, we will vote on Mr Haas' motion to reject the proposal at first reading. Yes, I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm signing you off, and I'm asking you to re-enter with your ID cards. In this context, for the tape screen, I am voting as Mr Skopeček with a replacement card number 28. In the meantime, before my colleagues arrive, I will make one apology: Mr Svoboda Bohuslav apologizes for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons. The number of Members has slowed down. I will again inform that we will now vote on Mr Haas' proposal, which was made in the general debate, namely the proposal to reject the proposal at first reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 159, 126 Members voted in favour, 64, against 59. This proposal was adopted. We rejected the bill in the first reading. I'm done discussing this point. Since it's 12.59, I dare not formally open a point to which we should return, because there's an agreement that lunch will be at 1:00 p.m. I'm interrupting the meeting until 2:30 p.m. when they're on the oral questioning program. Enjoy your meal and have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-007-068.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you to the continuation of our negotiations. The next item is:
