ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u1	Assessment of the conditions for discussion of ST 392 in a short hearing We will now proceed to one item on the agenda, however, before discussing the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws... [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I'm asking everyone to keep their voice down. Thank you very much. This is the House's press 392, the short-term negotiations, we should have in accordance with Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 5 assess whether the conditions for discussing the above draft law are in the shortened negotiations, and I hereby open the debate. I see there are a number of entries. We are in the general debate, we are in the debate on the accelerated negotiations, to be precise, and Mr Radek Koten is the first to be signed up. I ask him to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I see we have a slightly larger turnout here now, so I'm also greeting honored colleagues. [[Noise in the hall.]] The state of legislative emergency, therefore, is the provision of Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, can be declared in exceptional circumstances, where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u3	I'd like everyone. Please let us calm down, or we can settle all the discussions in front of the main hall. Once again, I ask that the Member be at peace with his speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me repeat: when the state is facing considerable economic damage. A situation of legislative emergency shall be declared by the President of the House or the President of the House, on a proposal from the Government. It may be declared under the Rules of Procedure for a certain period of time. "In the event of a declared state of legislative emergency, the President of the House or the President of the House may decide, at the request of the Government, that the Government's draft bill will be discussed in a brief hearing. In a state of legislative emergency, the House shall assess, before discussing the agenda, whether the situation of the legislative emergency persists.' So, on this point, we have assessed that the opposition, according to you, has already been babbling enough, and 64 proper applications to the debate are probably redundant, and the Members who have applied for are probably something like a difficult insect for you. Further: "Again, before the bill is discussed, the vote is whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts and whether the conditions for shortening negotiations in this particular law are laid down. The procedure for examining the draft law in a short hearing shall not have a first reading, the President shall direct the proposal to the committee and shall set an inexcessible time limit by which the committee must submit a resolution. After that, a second reading of the bill will take place, and it can be abandoned from the general debate, which is once again decided by the House." Thus, according to this afternoon's formula, created by Mr Mark the Výborný and Lady of the House for the TOP 09 by Pekarová Adamová, through you, the five-calice will overwhelm the opposition, so that we simply don't talk too much into it. It is in a situation where two of the three parties to the SPOLU coalition are below 4% in the survey, i.e. outside the House theoretically. So it's an incredible arrogance of power that we've had here this afternoon. You weren't supposed to be in 2021, I would say it expressively, but you didn't have the courage to run alone because you would disappear from the political map of the Czech Republic for good. Don't you have time to talk about your criminal designs against the most invulnerable group of people in the Czech Republic, against pensioners? It's the same group that can't defend itself. To paraphrase it in the words of a classic from the Black Barons: I want to throw up. "The third reading of the bill can take place immediately after the second reading." A more precise definition of the conditions of the declared state of legislative emergency can also be found in the Constitutional Court's ruling of 1. 3. 2011. It is precisely the shortening of speaking time, precisely what you desire, so that the opposition cannot express itself and probably discuss this very unconstitutional law. You're stuck here -- and that's basically still here -- always democracy, but such democracy your way. Well, you could say it was similar after 1948. That's when they said, "He who doesn't come with us is against us." I'm here to observe this trend in this - well, I'd like to say honorable, but I probably won't use it - the House for more than a year now. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Today, therefore, we have likely lost this term "honorable House " for good. Therefore, we will reminisce with Paragraph 99: "The economic process in a state of legislative emergency..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u5	I'd like everyone present to please keep their voice down. I beg you once again, colleagues... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u6	Thus, first: "In exceptional circumstances, where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or threatened with significant economic damage, the President of the House shall declare, on a proposal from the Government, a state of legislative emergency for a certain period." Well, economic damage, what do you call it? So what am I supposed to imagine under this? Let us therefore - or even for less understanding - explain whether everyone will understand, or whether everyone who is not here in the room will understand. But don't worry, I won't, I won't praise anyone. [[Noise in the hall.]] If it is understood by the damage that the government's inactivity in 2021 caused enormous damage to the emergence of this hard-to-believe inflation, with the help of not focusing on energy prices and thus on induced inflation, because energy and fuel prices are contained in all products including food, I see it as an irresponsible government is spinning inflation, among other things...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u7	I'm gonna interrupt you again, don't be angry, and I'm gonna ask everyone in the room to keep their voices down. And I'm begging you again, if there's anything you need to do to make it this O.R. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u8	This irresponsible government is also spinning inflation with loans, a guarantee for the never-payable debts of one of the most corrupt countries, and feeding weapons and ammunition to add more oil to the fire, so that the conflict will probably never end. Of course, even the expenses, for us, for the Czech Republic, will not end in this direction either. Peace is probably a dirty word for you, but your media calls us deisolates and so-called peace hunters. It's incredible, absolutely - 40 billion for weapons you found. That's what you've been saying, Mr. Fiala said how good we are to send a gun for $40 billion from the state budget. That's great, but 19 billion retirees, Czech citizens, are good for you, i.e. robbing a pensioner is probably kosher in your opinion. Another 28.5 billion in the last year - now it was an anniversary - you gave them to Ukrainian refugees, and for information, there are currently more than 470,000 in the Czech Republic according to the Ministry of Interior's source, and this is a state sometime by the end of February. Furthermore, buying unnecessary fighters, donations - tanks, ammunition - from so-called untouchable supplies and other means of killing, this is probably your policy. You probably don't give a damn about citizens in the Czech Republic, including pensioners. You are stealing from them by Green Deal, which you have yet to support in the European Union, by other emission allowances for households, inflation and other steps, and then you will raise their taxes. You raise taxes to businessmen, you raise taxes to property owners, and you rob them of the money you took from them by inflation in the last year. And that money, especially the elderly, is supposed to compensate at least by valorizing their pensions, but the valorization is bothering you, you want the money, too. Well, it's not the elderly who's doing great economic damage, but it's your government. You should put on a situation of legislative emergency so that we can call you off in an accelerated regime so that you don't harm this republic anymore. I would still like to comment on this brief discussion. From where I'm sitting, it's a huge mistake. Since it is not possible to hold debates on committees, in plenary you are likely to restrict our speeches - exactly in your own way - and where is the supposed democracy that you are cursing over and over again? I don't think so. [[23.00 hours]] So he, too, in the last century, considered himself a liberal and largely a democrat. Following, the world conflict unleashed, and the result of its support, as otherwise, by Western banks, were only millions of dead, many economic damage, and de facto the destruction of Europe as people knew it before. So I'm just pointing it out and setting up the mirror. Unfortunately, there have been a lot of similar characteristics lately, and I don't know what your ultimate goal is. For now, there are retired people on the wallpaper, entrepreneurs, property owners. So I appeal very strongly to the standard negotiation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u9	Thank you. Your contribution raised one point of fact, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u10	Thank you. Have a good evening. Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond very briefly to Mr Koten, the previous speaker, and at the same time to what Mr Tomio Okamura, President of the SPD, said here, because it is clear and evident that the assistance provided by the Czech Republic, whether directly in the area of military material against Ukraine, has been fully compensated by the Czech Republic. Thus, the Czech Republic can restore its army to modern technology, modern equipment, thanks to the fact that this aid is financed, either by the European budget or by the US. Keep an eye on the data, it's obvious, so don't tell the truth here, don't spread lies here, don't defamate the government from something that never happened and never will. As far as direct assistance is concerned in the Czech Republic, over the last year, CZK 8,6 billion was provided from my resort for a humanitarian benefit, and I will remind you, over CZK 8 billion were paid to the Ukrainian workers in the health system last year, on further contributions in total. These people are already contributing more to our public finances than the costs we are putting into this. I also do not count on the fact that they fill in jobs that we cannot occupy in the long term - in the field of health, social services - and help improve the standard of care for Czech citizens as well. In the long run, in relation to, for example, the sustainability of the pension system, these people are very important to us. If they decide to stay here, they will make a clear contribution to helping Czech citizens pay pensions for five, ten, twenty, thirty years, and help with funding. [[Help?]] Please don't spread hate and don't say things that aren't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u11	Thank you for the precise respect of the time and Mr Koten has actually applied. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u12	Thank you for the floor. So, Minister, I would like to ask you one more additional question, since it is all so much sunshine. Here comes sooner or later - and so I think that given the age of some people who have therefore sought help from us - so I would like to ask you here to explain to Czech taxpayers how they will be paid any pensions to these people, because some may already be in retirement age or before retirement age, for example five, ten years, they will be working here, and then I would like to know what the amount of their retirement pension will be, if they decide to stay here, and from what we will be paying them, because if they do not have years worked out, you will probably see for yourself whether the rest of the money will come here from the Ukrainian side or how it will be dealt with? I think that taxpayers in the Czech Republic would deserve the information here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u13	Thank you. There is no de facto, so we can approach... after all, I can see here, and we even have three right away. So Vice Prime Minister Jurečka begins, then Mr Lang and then Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u14	I thank you very much for this, and I will be happy to see that the SPD colleagues spread the answer through their social networks, because this is very important. There will be rules that apply in all other cases, both for Czech citizens, that means the need to fulfil the insurance period, that means to be here on the labour market, legally carried out, today is the insurance period of 35 years. In this we still have so-called excluded times, such as maternity, parental. Then these people will be entitled to a pension, or, as is the case with countries with which we have a mutual agreement, it is possible that the total number of years worked is counted for both countries, but if the majority was in the territory of another state, it is logically calculated that the country is Ukraine or Slovakia or another state, for example, it has to send a part that corresponds to the time worked by that person in the territory of another State, it has provided contributions, it is financed by the other State and we are paying part, perhaps smaller, perhaps only a few years to that person. [[Take him away?]] But in the global, he has to fulfill that condition for 35 years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u15	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is Mr Hubert Lang. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I was listening to Mr. Jurečka. In its essence, it's a bit of a different keg. We've got half a million Ukrajinec in order here, and you're saying here that basically these people are going to stay here. [[Me.]] It's surprising, then, because once the war is over there, in Ukraine, these people should probably go home and build a reconstruction of their country. Or do you already expect them to be your potential voters, which is why you may be so generous to them, more generous than our seniors? But what I'd like to say is that we've approved some Lex Ukraine I to Lex Ukraine X here, but how do you expect them to stay here, these people? Here we have some foreign law, we have some conditions here, these people have to do certain things here, and it's not that easy for you to say, half a million people stay here. Yes, from one point of view it's good, they have some kids, they might be taxpayers, probably your constituents, probably KDU-ČSL when you only have 3,5 percent of the preferences, but it's not that simple. And today we really need to start asking if we have the money for our seniors that we're fighting for today, or if we have... I've always said here that we have to say some deadline, some ceiling for incoming Ukrajinec. Each week around 2 to 2.5 thousand Ukrajinec - 150 days of health insurance, 5,000 for six months and a lot of other things related to it. And that really caught my eye, and I'm gonna pay attention, like you said, about half a million people staying here. I don't quite like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u17	Thank you. Another entry is Mr Vondráček, then Minister Jurečka and then Mr Foldyna. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm looking at the clock and it's like that song - it's almost midnight and I have a little déjà vu that yesterday this time our debate with Minister Jurečka, who lasted until 1:00 a.m. when he met us - and let him be honored - was a legislative emergency on the subject. And now we're essentially dealing with the same thing in relation to the specific press, the content of this should be similar. We're starting to get a little dizzy on topics other than what we should be talking about. It doesn't bother us so much that, at this point, however, everything is the same. Minister Jurečka is here against some opposition, and now there will be factual remarks. Attention, with a small exception - we have the Minister of Justice, who was missing last night. So I would like to ask him, then, in the context of the debate, if he really thinks that if the only reason we are discussing this in short proceedings is that otherwise the government would not have done it, so if it really is a reason in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and if he, as Minister of Justice, really thinks that when someone is paid a statutory valuation under a law which is valid, which is effective, and which basically covers the right of those people to security in the old age, according to Art. 30 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, whether it is possible to talk about damage and whether the parameters to be discussed in the accelerated procedure are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u19	Thank you and the other applicants are Minister Marian Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u20	I have to say that I was surprised by the fact that Radek Vondráček, when he was performing, was quite very factual, and I have to say that now his performance surprised me, because I would expect him to perform in a similar way after he had a speech here for more than two hours by Andrej Babiš, who conducted an excursion on how many sows we have in the Czech Republic, about how much rolls cost, about who was born, about how well it is with the vegetables in February or January. Andrej Babiš here has spoken most of his speech, which has nothing to do with the content of what we are about to discuss. Andrej Babiš is finished, and normally Radek Vondráček should press tech and come and say what he said just now. I, under the Rules of Procedure, responded to what Mr Koten said to bring clear false information to the right. I did. That there's another debate going on here, I can't influence that, but I want to respond here so that my colleague here for the ANO movement doesn't say something I've never said in my life. I didn't say those people - half a million people - would stay here. I said, if they stay here, it's up to them, it's a free decision for these people, just like our people decided in the communism period whether - if they emigrate - they'll stay in Canada, in the US, or in some other country, or come home after a while, after 1989. That's the same thing here. Here it is really up to these people to decide how it will be possible when the war ends, where they had homes, whether to return or not. And if they stay here, under conditions that normally apply in legislation to anyone else who comes from abroad. That is perhaps clear to all Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u21	Thank you, and I would ask all Members to stick to the factual subject on the debate - that is, we are talking about assessing the terms and conditions for discussion in the shortened negotiations and the resulting formalities. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, then... the MP cancels, then Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to react briefly and maybe elaborate on what has been said here by Minister Jurečka. To me it seems a little bit, please, strange, perhaps tendential, at the moment when we are dealing with a matter that concerns extraordinary valorisation, given the sharp or unexpected rise in inflation, suddenly involve Ukraine's agenda and the solution to the difficult situation of people in need, because there is a war in their country. Since the beginning of the war - and it has been extended by one more year - they have the status of a protected person, they are refugees from their country, it has a special regime in the Czech Republic, it has extended by one year at the level of the European Union, and even with the last approval of the so-called Lex Ukraine, the government has responded - and conditions that no longer reflect the authenticity of leaving for people who live here and participate in the work process, their children go to schools are approaching the normal regime. However, the war is not over, which is why this status continues. And if anyone decides to live and work in that country, if it is not a Member State of the European Union, then of course all other conditions apply to it. Therefore, I would not like to have the debate, which concerns one part and has a very specific subject, to involve some things that put us in a position - either to help Ukrainian refugees, people who are fleeing the war or something else. I don't think that's part of the debate, and as it turns out, the things the government does are not at the expense of the Czech people. The money that is being paid back for support in humanitarian and military equipment, for example. And just what Marian Jurečka said, one last thing. When you look at the crisis in the world, of course, the longer a war lasts somewhere, the percentage of people who go back to that country is falling. [[We have time.]] All you have to do is work with the data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u23	Thank you, and I'm really about to get into it right now. Let us stick to the subject, let factual remarks be about what is to be discussed here, Ukraine really is not a topic now. As I did fair and square yesterday against the opposition, I will do so against the coalition. Please stick to the factual points on the subject. Another of the applicants is Mr Babka and then Mr Vondráček. Before Mr Babka comes, Mr Kott's apology from 22.45 to 8 for health reasons and Mr Petr Vrána from 22.45 to 9, also for work reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u24	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will respond, of course, to the current debate and also to what my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček has said here. We are here at the moment to assess, in a state of legislative emergency, whether the discussion of this government bill, whether the conditions for its discussion in a short hearing, are met, and this is imposed on us under Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies (Deputies of the Chamber of Deputies). 5. We haven't even learned from any of the members of the government why these conditions should occur, or why we should discuss this press in a short hearing. There was no one here to speak for the plaintiff. This debate will really remind me of the debate last night, but again, the Minister for Legislation, Minister Šalomoun, is not present. I looked into the system, it is again excused from 20 to 9 in the morning for personal reasons. During the assessment of the state of legislative emergency, when you cut off the debate, when 66 of us were logged in, and we wanted to find out why you believe a legislative emergency is necessary, even at this point in time, we have not learned from the Minister for Legislation why the conditions for discussion in the accelerated negotiations should be met. And I really consider it an outrage that you are unable, none of you, to come forward here, and why these conditions have been met here to say. And that, once again, there is no Minister of Legislation, who only spoke twice in the course of a legislative emergency, twice two minutes, and the only thing that... Sorry. [[Time. We have time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u25	Thank you. Another of the entries is Mr Vondráček, then Minister Jurečka and then Minister Bartoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u26	Thank you for the floor. I will respond briefly to the speech of Minister Jurečka and my colleague, Mr Babka. I guess there was some misunderstood - or I don't understand - but I didn't go to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in any way, and I even commended him. Well, for the last time, I won't do it again, I promise. But I did not object that he responded to the part of the speech of the first speaker who spoke in the general debate or in the debate on this point. I was just saying that it's like déjà vu, that we've been through this before, with the only exception that Pavel Blažek sits here and maybe we'll learn something from him because he wasn't here yesterday at this time. That was the contents of my message. And if Minister Jurečka says I was supposed to perform after President Babiš's speech, I couldn't perform. That was a completely different point, that was another part of the meeting. We were talking about the agenda of the meeting, the party chairman spoke with his priority right outside the debate, and I could push the button of factual comment as long as I wanted, and the result would still be the same - no one would give me a word. Unlike Mr President, I do not question the other responses in factual terms. We've dealt with this place three times in the last 24 hours. A factual point is that the speaker responds to the debate and Lang has already responded to the two contributions made before him. So if anyone was to be shouted at, it should have been Minister Jurečka, and then the others are acting perfectly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's all that matters. We've been through this. We have benevolent rules of procedure, others shouted it out, it wasn't the YES movement that started to interpret it that way, so now it's necessary to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u27	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u28	I just want to make sure, thank you, I want to assure Mr Babka here in particular, but also others, although I have been in the last - perhaps thirty hours already repeatedly explaining why legislative emergency. I am prepared in a properly registered priority right at the moment when the technical space ends, here to explain again in this part of this meeting, so that it also becomes clear again here. I understand some of them haven't been here the whole time. I'm here yesterday, if I haven't had a meeting here in the State Acts, I've been watching the debate late, I've been involved as necessary, and I'll be back here in a few moments, if there's room, I'll be very happy to justify it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u29	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Vice Prime Minister Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u30	I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Babka's reservation - I have heard this several times today. I was here in the morning quite often, Minister Šalamoun sat here this morning, some of them were here, but no one asked him anything, then someone stepped out, said he wasn't here at all and didn't perform when it was said from his colleagues from the ODS that he was commenting on the legislative emergency and its need, so the same MP - I don't know who he was - got off, but not enough, while in the same speech he said that Minister Šalamoun wasn't here at all. [[That's right, Solomon.]] [[That's right, Solomon.]] Now he is excused, and I think the answer has been answered several times. So I would need - or maybe it would be good if someone wasn't here at the moment to pass the information on to you, for Minister Šalomoun was performing in a short performance, I think yesterday, and this morning he was normally responding, including his own output. But if that question is repeated over and over again, I don't think it is absolutely necessary for him to be here and at each stage answering the same question, because from other colleagues in the government, this state of legislative emergency has already been explained. But then again, we can still say: And there is no Minister Šalamoun, but he also commented on this. If, of course, a Member is not satisfied with the explanation, it is his full right, but the fact is that Minister Šalamoun has already spoken about the need for a legislative emergency. I think he was even here at seven o'clock when I was here, he was here from six, actually until the beginning of the government meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mr Babka and then Mr králíček. We're still in business. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister Bartoš, we do not blame anyone - or I do not personally blame - for being properly excused. We had this debate here in two hours. When we wanted to lead her this afternoon and Minister Šalamoun was present, you took our word democratically. [[That's right, Solomon.]] You cut us off twice. First you limited us in time, and then you limited us in time to vote. So, actually, you've limited us twice. I asked you not to do this, you did it anyway. I have not been answered until now, even though Mr Haas and I, through Mr President, had the debate until two o'clock in the morning, I still do not have the answers to the questions I have been asking here. Even if the MP tried, and not just him, but other lawyers from your government coalition or members of the government coalition, we still don't have the answers, and I expected that we would have a constructive debate this afternoon, and you cut us off. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u33	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Babka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u34	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I don't know how else to say this, and I'll try to say it calmly, because when I say it here in emotions, it may sound like I'm being hysterical, but it's not normal. We were here yesterday morning assessing the state of legislative emergency. Minister Šalomoun spoke here with a factual remark, where he said within two minutes that he was looking for a judicate similar to the situation that he had not found, and that was all. It wasn't properly signed up for priority rights, we were dealing with it here, and it didn't come out here if it ever came out. He said in his speech that he couldn't make it and that he would like to get off because he had it ready, the justification, and he didn't get off because he didn't sign up with the priority right, which means that even he couldn't make it. And here we are again at 11:30 p.m. today, we have begun the assessment of the conditions for short-term negotiations - and again there is no one here and again there is no one to justify it. And don't tell me there's no room for that right now. Now there are two factual points and priority rights applied for. It's totally crazy to me -- when else should the Minister of Legislation be here, and when else than yesterday, when discussing the state of legislative emergency, and today when assessing the conditions, should he be here? I'm sorry, but otherwise the minister is completely useless. The government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. to all of us here, and I think his job is to be here and justify it. There's no way we've been here for hours, and we haven't had a chance to question him. [[You have time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Robert králíček, Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u36	Mr President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to respond to Vice Prime Minister Bartoš and follow up on his colleague Babka, because - for you have set up an extra minister or several, but this minister, who, I remember well, you have not listened to and ignored his first recommendation, which we have been discussing here, mentioned Patrik Nacher. And I agree that the Minister for Legislation should be here in this crucial conflict between the opposition and the coalition, and he could speak to preferential rights when he was sitting here at the time that Mr Bartoš mentioned. He had the right, he had the right. I saw yesterday that the ministers for legislation here are Mr Haas, through the President, and Mr Kohajda, who were the only ones who were talking about the state of the legislative emergency. And I would like to do it again, as I did it, perhaps a little loudly, and I spoke to Minister Jurečka - and I do not want to do it because such dialogue is not worthy of this House - so I would also like to ask Minister Bartoš. It just bothers me when you're limiting us in time to dictate when we can ask questions and what ministers. That's a matter of opposition, and there are things we won't let ourselves talk into. I know you're gonna beat us up with your 108 votes, that you're ready to scratch us again, but what's next? Then you're gonna give us a couple of punches where we can go to the O.R., when we can do something? I mean, you guys are acting... I won't even find that word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u37	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mr Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u38	Well, thank you again for the floor. I'm gonna follow up on what I said because I can see that there's no response. So I'll ask you one more time by responding to Minister Bartoš. I would like to know what economic damage has been caused? There's no impact study, so we're going back to the debate we had here. There is no impact study worked out, so we cannot evaluate whether or not it was created, first of all. Secondly, we have a valid law, and the law says that if the circumstances - which have occurred - occur automatically, the valorization calculator will occur. So, basically, the law is valid, the calculator is supposed to run, so where's the damage identified? And otherwise, I have now listened to the constitutional lawyers Gerloch, Preuss and Mr Pavlíček and they have a similar view as we have, who say that we have a valid law, the law is fulfilled, and if you wanted to do something because those predictions were, you should have held last year - in September, October - and at that time or at that time you should have made an amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u39	Thank you. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, then Mr Babka and then Mr Haas. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u40	For one thing, as a minister here, I have put forward a draft law in a legislative emergency several times, I have always justified it here for the government both from the point of view of the need for legislative emergency and from the point of view of the substantive proposal itself, and I have never heard here that it would be called for, for example, a colleague named Šalomoun to be here. He is not the Minister of Legislative Need, he is a member of the Government and also Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Yesterday and today I heard it repeatedly from my mouth and from his mouth, you have it in the explanatory report, we spent a few hours here, there was a clear explanation of why the legislative emergency, what possible burden for the state budget in the spirit, as defined by the legislation in relation to the legislative emergency. That was also very clear here. And as for what Mrs Berenika Peštová here says, I'm just quoting her - and now let her listen, I've read it about three times already. What exactly does the Pension Insurance Act say? In order to determine the specific parameters of the increase in pension, the provisions of paragraph 1 shall therefore apply. 16 under which an increase in pension provision is made for implementing legislation. There isn't one word in the law that the Czech Statistical Office has set it up. It lays down implementing legislation, a government regulation that the government is yet to issue. Read the law, then come here, then say something. You have a fundamental ignorance as a Member about what you decide. You have it described in the explanatory report, other colleagues explained it here yesterday, and the debate here is that not only the members of the government, but also other fellow Members, Members, both from the opposition and from the coalition, are not responding here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u41	Your de facto has raised a number of others, and Mr. Babka is the first to surrender, so then Mr. Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u42	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I will, in principle, speak with such a short, human speech, which responds to what has been said here in the debate. Sometimes a wedge is thrown into a coalition, especially between the ODS and the Pirates, and I therefore consider it humanly necessary, not politically necessary, but humanly necessary, to stand up for Minister Šalomoun. Firstly, the government's request to declare a state of legislative emergency is a request from the government, not a request from an individual minister. That is the first point I want to highlight. Secondly, the government has combined its request to declare a state of legislative emergency with the House press 392, whose promoter - and the government in this direction represents - is the MPSV, meaning Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who - and you know that I was here yesterday, today I have been here most of the time - is really trying to answer. The fact that we don't agree with each other's answers is different. Thirdly, Minister Šalomoun has spoken four times today, and I really respect him humanly in that, as I do not know Mr. Šalomoun any longer in a year and a quarter, I have recognized him, so he certainly does not always respect materiality in his performances, he never slides down to any insults, whether spoken or perhaps in some way mimicked way. It corresponds factually, really, and I don't think the number of performances is crucial. In all the shows he answered all the questions that fell here several times. I merely considered myself humanly important to Minister Šalomoun, even though he is not here, to stand up for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u43	Thank you and another of the applicants is Mr Robert králíček, then Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mrs Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u44	I'd like to respond to Minister Jurečka. Minister, I'm gonna use your winged-- well, we're not listening here. You said no one asked Mr. Šalomoun yesterday. Mr. Babka and Mrs. Vildumetzová called on him to perform several times. And it's just technical. You've been screaming into that microphone, and I haven't yelled at you once, or I haven't crawled at you here. But you were screaming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u45	Thank you. I think the discussion is correct. At the moment, another registered Mrs. Berenika Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u46	Thank you for the floor. Minister Jurečka, I know that this is a government order, and I also know when the government regulation is being imposed, or, rather, the implementing regulation that is in that law. I know it, and I know it's a legal obligation. It's a legal obligation, the law is valid. And I want to know where the damage is? If it's a legal obligation, then tell me, what's the damage? By paying off what the law tells you? That's a shame? That's what I've been trying to get out of this crew all morning. So tell me, yes, we were preparing our budget for the amendment of the law, unfortunately we didn't make the amendment, we weren't counting on this money, and that's why we're trying to straighten it out. And it's the retroactivity. And I understand that, but I just want to see where the damage came from when it's a legal obligation. That's exactly what I'm saying -- by bending it like that and going into that interreort for two days without what you were supposed to do, you didn't, you got an exception from Mr. Šalomoun -- we won't argue that it wasn't him who gave it to you. He's the one who's there under the Government Legislative Council, so you got the exception you asked for, you got the exception, and you were there for two days, you got the exception to restrict the number of comment points, that's what you did. No one answered me what comments you received in the interdepartmental area to this press, I don't know either, I didn't see the settlement table, so please answer me this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u47	Thank you. And President Schillerová is next, and then Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, please don't yell at us here. I don't see any of my colleagues yelling at you either. Of course, it is commendable that, as a petitioner, you fight for the whole framework of this legislation, including the legislative emergency at issue, I am not talking about other issues, but I do not want to touch you, I understand that you are in a bubble and you feel that you know all this. Believe it not, that the legal framework, the debate of the real legal nature only started yesterday in very late hours with colleagues, especially members of the constitutional-legal committee. That is why my colleagues are calling for Minister Šalomoun's participation - in the end he should have a great chance to shine here and prove that it makes sense to have a special minister for legislation. Maybe our government didn't understand that. However, you fight for this law like a lion, you represent the government here. I firmly believe that if the law and you are determined - today you have demonstrated it, today, yes, today you have demonstrated it - you are determined to enforce it as much as you can, so I believe that if you fail to succeed in the Constitutional Court, where he will no doubt realise that you will put your own prime minister's head on the chopping block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u49	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher, then Minister Jurečka, then Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, we're spinning in circles here. Yes, we have always repeatedly and it has its logic, you - or in a square here, in your case in a square, we are spinning here, in a rectangle - because we are the first vote, and the first was a state of legislative emergency, the duration of a legislative emergency, and the Minister for Legislation was not here. He was here on break, and when he was here -- no, he wasn't, so I was sitting here, so I know if he was sitting here or not -- he was making excuses for not being asked. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Don't be mad at me, this has to be the minister who's involved, which is a minister who hasn't even fit in this row, how many of you are as ministers, always sitting one floor up, so he's supposed to defend himself. He should not be challenged by us at all, that is the essence - and he is to defend it. And so is this point, because it's basically going on. [[23.40 hours]] He was here on break, and when he was here... no, he wasn't, so I was sitting here, so I know if he was sitting here or not... [[A voice from the diaper.]] he was making excuses for not being asked. Don't be mad at me, this has to be the minister who's involved, which is a minister who hasn't even fit in this row, how many of you are as ministers, always sitting one floor up, so he's supposed to defend himself. He should not be challenged by us at all, that is the essence - and he is to defend it. And so is this point, because it's basically going on. Only at the following point is the grandiose role of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm glad Marian Jurečka responds as minister, but I really miss the view of legislation. You came here, and I remember when you were gaining confidence - and I asked why this government has three ministers more than the previous one, and one of them is the Minister for Legislation. And you said he'd oversee the legislation, that the laws were fine. I remember it like I do today. I even mentioned that the Minister wouldn't even fit in that line. Now there's a number of cases where it's on the edge, and the Minister isn't here. And when he's here, he says no one's asking him. It's just, it's like... [[A voice from the diaper.]] And justice? Tell us who to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u51	Thank you. And the next one who's logged in is Vice Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u52	I'm sorry that I had a voice higher than normal, and therefore threatened your stay here in this hall within OSH. I take it to heart, I'd be happy to have other colleagues and colleagues take it to heart, But I will just go back to what has been called for here - I would very much like to say this in a proper debate outside the factual ones, but somehow we cannot get to it - and that is that if we maintain the current valuation formula, in the next ten years it will be entitled to the state budget around CZK 600 billion. Mandatorial expenditures, which will be once and for all - I was here yesterday also comparing how this is developing against the average wage, I will not repeat it, this said here really including proofing the facts on graphs - and our adjustment means that we will increase pensions on average by CZK 760 and the state budget will not be burdened to such an extent, and thus we will remain hypothetically in the state budget for about CZK 316 billion over the ten years. This is the factual impact that - as has been repeatedly told by me and other colleagues here yesterday, that this is what, in a broader sense, can be considered to be significant economic damage in the very impact on the state budget, in the fact that we do not have the funding to collect the premiums, we must take from another part of the budget. In this situation, we take them from the part that we have to borrow, and they will have to make money for it someday, pay back children and grandchildren of current pensioners in their work. That is the principle that we have clearly described here, and the reason why we are doing this and why we need to take that step by March 22nd. [[We have time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u53	Thank you and please Mr Radek Vondráček. In the meantime, I will read the apologies: President Schillerová from 20.30 to 1 hour for work reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u54	I can understand some frustration from the fact that the debate that was here at the same time, the same content of last night, is repeating itself, but do realize that the coalition is responsible for this because it called this meeting with one item of the agenda, a little more step aside, according to the Rules of Procedure, so that it is not possible to change the agenda of the meeting. Otherwise, maybe we could include points that would be more talkative and that would involve more pensions, and we can't get to them because that's all you want to discuss at any cost. And when you propose one press and a situation of legislative emergency is resolved and the procedure is reduced, it's clear that it's basically the same issue, it's connected with one press. So now I've learned, and it's in the tapestry that Mr. Jurečka said that the damage is 600 billion in the next ten years, and that's why we're dealing with this in a state of legislative emergency, yes, within a few nights, because otherwise we're going to lose 600 billion. I am not an expert on pensions, but I really cannot believe it, because we are discussing several evenings here that we are ready to discuss a change in the valorisation framework, that we, as the Chamber of Deputies and legislators, are prepared to change the laws of this country - and we, the opposition, even lend a helping hand, because those pensions are a problem that will catch up with us, and it is the House that changes the rule of law of the Czech Republic. The whole problem is that you want to do it in a short trial, you want to do it in a few days, and that's the thing - how to put it politely, I can't think right now... [[Voice off the microphone.]] ... the core of the poodle, Mr... Well, that's weak, I'm sorry, that's weak, the poodle core is weak, so then I'm gonna sign up with another factual remark, because I didn't actually get to what I was gonna say. We want to see the damage compensation, and we want to know where the intensity came from, that it's at the level of a war or a threat to the state. And that's what the Constitutional Court tells us that it must be this intensity. [[We have time.]] So where's the state of war? Are we in a state of war with seniors or with whom?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u55	Mr Haas and then Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u56	ANO colleagues had a coalition role in the previous two electoral periods, and I assume that the bills proposed by their government were not merely proposals from individuals, but were proposals from the whole coalition. So I would like to ask if you could respect the fact that we, the ordinary ordinary Members, are trying to answer some of your questions. So I will try to answer my colleague Peštová's previous questions, through Mr President and my colleague Radek Vondráček, again through Mr President. What is the impending - and I will underline - threat of economic damage that may arise from the state? Page 11 of the explanatory memorandum to the law. Again - we can agree with that, we can disagree with that, precisely calculated figures. Impact in 2023 on the pension system balance 34,4 billion, 2024 58,8 billion. Why am I stressing this here? We can agree to disagree with this, but these numbers are undoubtedly reviewable in the framework of the constitutional review, and either it turns out that they were invented by the government, they were arbitrary, or they will show up in the review - and I believe that the opposition's lawyers would confirm to me - that what is one of the Constitutional Courts is that the establishment of grounds by the government for a request for a legislative emergency must be legally reviewed. [[unintelligible]] So that's a reference to the explanatory statement and the reviewability of those decisions. As regards the threat of economic injury on the part of the State and the fact that it must be taken not in private terms, but in a broader political context, I refer to paragraph 17 of the Constitutional Court's judgment, Plenary finding 12/2010, and to paragraph 96 of the Plenary finding, which you also use to argue, 55/10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u57	Thank you. Mr. Ondřej Babka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I was impressed by my colleague Patrik Nacher's factual comment because he reminded me of what he was remembering here, and that was when the government asked for trust and brought in its programming statement. Of course, I've had it on my desk ever since, so sometimes I do it when I'm dealing with something like that. And in the government's programming statement, I expect that if you redesigned it today, so you will soon give us a new copy, you will come here again to ask the House for confidence in your government, and that, therefore, in the programming declaration, you will also rewrite the item Legislation, which states that you will submit quality legislation by increasing the quality of legislation, you will carefully consider any new regulation on the basis of an analysis of the expected impact that the legislative proposals needed to implement the programming declaration will be submitted by standard legislative means and that experts within the Government's Legislative Council will comment on them before submitting them. [[23.50 hours]] So I expect that when you print a new programming statement that you will rewrite that part of the Legislation, because otherwise I would expect that just here at this point, in this case, the legislation will be so high-quality, and even if it isn't so high-quality that the Minister for Legislation can defend it here, if necessary. And I am saying this because the Minister here has spoken several times on factual remarks and has expressed himself here to the government's laxity, if that government could have actually acted differently, that he was looking for similar judicates, which he might have likened, but there has never been any clear position on this. [[Time, sorry.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u59	Mrs Eva Fialová is another one that is applied for, then Mr Patrik Nacher and then Minister Jurečka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u60	Thank you for the floor, I will respond to Minister Jurečka, who is now in the debate, but it will probably not help, and to Mr Haas. We haven't been listening to each other in the long run about the way we're discussing it. I'm going to question your hypothesis now. We are talking about the 19 billion that are now in this budget in July. No one here is questioning that we are willing to talk about the valorization that we want to discuss in the ordinary regime, and therefore, now that you pay in July, you will change to September, where there is another possibility to change the whole law, the valorization, so it will not be 600 billion in the prospect of ten years, so we are not talking about the economic loss of 600 billion in the prospect of ten years, when it changes during this year of valorization. The point is, you're taking it from seniors now in July, where a legitimate claim arose, and let's talk about the others. It's just the hypothesis is wrong here! It won't be 600 billion if you change it in a year! That's all we've been talking about!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u61	Mr Nacher and then Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u62	Thank you. I'm gonna do it fast right now, 'cause there's nothing I can do in those two minutes. Okay, first of all. You're twisting legislation like a paragraph, at least we all know why it's such a twisted paragraph, and the Minister for Legislation isn't always here. So I'd like to ask what the Minister of Justice has to say about what's going on here if the Minister of Justice is listening to me. He's not listening! So then somebody's here, and they still don't listen. But I don't want to lose - I've got half a minute in a row. Finally, the reaction to Minister Jurečka. I'm so glad we moved on, but now your explanation, I don't understand. You said the damage cumulatively, that if the mechanism doesn't change and it's set up higher or at the moment, it's going to be 600 billion in ten years. But we're questioning this very point of view, because we've been saying from the beginning that we're not defending political debate, and I'm saying this about the fourth time that's legitimate here, about changing the valorisation mechanism. And if we theoretically make a deal and the valorization mechanism changes in September, it changes completely, now I'm going to theorize, so your script doesn't happen, that's not true. So the 58 billion that Karel Haas was talking about aren't gonna happen. It won't, because just like you're changing it even retroactively now, you can change it here in this case, what we're proposing, in the future. To the future! So we're questioning the retroactivity, and still no one answered. You keep saying what's going to happen in ten years. That's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u63	Yes, so I'm asking you to talk it over the counter, so now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u64	Thank you very much. I will ask very much, through Mr President, the honourable colleague Patrik Nacher and Mrs Honorable colleague Fialová and all others. Now I'm going to try to explain that what you're saying is that it's not going to happen, because the moment we admit it to those people in June, it's going to be the foundation of their pensions once and for all. Future valorisation, even if it's in agreement, if we agree, if we adjust the future valorizations, their parameters, they'll only slow the pace of the future valorization, but once and for all after June, it will become a permanent mandatorial expense every month. And if you wanted to cut it down and say that we could save somewhere from what will be granted in June for that budget, then we would have to do it in a way that we would reduce the pensions in fact. We're really gonna lower it! And that's a completely different debate. You guys are talking about some legitimate expectation today - it's already acquired rights, and it really can't come into that anymore. It will simply happen in June, whether we raise our proposal or the current, originally valid one, once and for all, for all these pensioners for the rest of their lives, the permanent amount of their pensions, which we will only affect in the future by valorizing with some other formula for the future, whether in proper or extraordinary valuations. That's what I'm trying to explain. It really is no longer about taking the crown back if we do not want to go the way of Greece, when in Greece they have reduced the calculated pension bases by half. It's not possible!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u65	Thank you. Mr. Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u66	Thank you. We're getting warmed up, we're having a debate. I'm gonna respond to my colleague Haas, but I'm gonna run away to what I'm listening to. I don't have the school for it, but it's like you're here saying that the pensions are gonna freeze off one day and they're not gonna change, and that would be ideal. These pensions are supposed to grow because the costs are rising and they will grow. Valorisation is a system that is precisely designed to avoid a reduction in the value of pensions in absolute terms. They always grow. You can't say 600 billion is a shame! It's just gonna be expensive, there's always gonna be some inflation, and those pensions are gonna grow. We're all gonna be old and sick someday, that's one certainty you have. We'll be old, we'll be sick, maybe we'll be helpless. And the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms remembers that, and we have the right to some basic security. There are countries that have a much larger percentage in terms of the amount of pension compared to their previous income in life. We're about 40 percent, if I'm not mistaken. It simply has to make the pensioner's living out of it, and if inflation continues to grow, so must the pensions. Let the basis simply be higher and the basis will be higher, but everything is also more expensive, and then the valorisation framework will change. I'm not an expert, but this is completely logical common sense! You can't call this damage, and you can't want to deal with it in a short run now in a few days, although you must know it long before, even the inflation was well ahead of schedule. The fundamental principle of political debate in the House and some minority rights to participate in parliamentary procedures are completely violated here. We're talking about a short trial, that's what we're talking about. That you're pushing it... The only reason we're discussing this is to make it, there's no other reason. This law is part of a proper debate and three readings. [[Time.]] That's the essence of my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u67	děkovat you and Roman Kubíček, another one of the applicants. Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-002-902.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here I have found the points where we can do this, and I have been looking to see if there has been an earthquake in the last few days - it has not yet been. There hasn't been a flood yet. We're not far from war, but we'd have to mark ourselves in that state of war. And now for the mechanism. I'm an economist, and don't teach me how it works. So, of course, on the one hand you have to give - gave and on the other hand you have some revenue. Valorisation, although affecting pension costs and mandatorial costs, on the other hand causes unpredictable and unpredictable revenues of the state, their increase. So you guys have to settle this together, and we're going to talk about how much percent of this is an increase in pensions compared to the unexpected income. And that's somewhere else.
