ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to unsubscribe you first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 66th meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 46 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 9 June 2023. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Tom Philipp and Members of Petr Vrána. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I don't see another suggestion. I'll call my colleagues back. We'll wait until he gets out of the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number one, 102 Members registered, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members Tom Philipp and Petr Vrána. I'll read some more apologies. He apologizes Koten Radek from 14.30 - working reasons and voborský Milada from 14.30 for working reasons. And otherwise, I'm saying that the apologies are the way they were read at the 66th meeting. And now we will proceed to the 68th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. I would remind you that, pursuant to Section 54 (7) of the Rules of Procedure Act, the House will decide only on the programme set out in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I now have priority rights here to propose a programme. Mr. Chairman Cogan is pulling out. And now Minister Vít Rakušan is signed in with priority rights and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will prepare himself. The design of the show? [[Call off the microphone.]] I'm sorry, I just... I guess I can clear up the order, please. First the Minister, then President Babiš and then we will vote on the programme. Isn't that right? That was the deal, if that's the way I see it. [[Call off the microphone.]] So I'm just gonna ask you if we can be more specific. We'll let the Minister speak, thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u2	Have a good day. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, don't worry, I'm not going to abuse preferential rights. I fully respect who is the caller of the meeting, and of course I respect that I will go into the debate at that moment when any relevant questions are raised, and they will certainly fall in the debate. I am only going to say for us that we are in favour of approving the agenda of the meeting, we support its approval, we consider it reasonable for us to open up a debate on this subject for several reasons. We believe that this agreement is an undisputed success in the long-term negotiations of the Czech Republic, and we want to make clear arguments here that will support this. Furthermore, we think that there is a need to respond to various media statements that appear and show many times that very few really understand the issue and few have an idea of what the Czech Republic has actually approved. Migration policy is certainly a topic for which we are to discuss here, we are to speak, and I therefore say for the government's majority that the support of the agenda for this meeting is something of a matter of course. We've recorded a series of extraordinary meetings here that had no general sense. In this case, I believe that it makes sense, precisely so that we can demonstrate and explain here an agreement that is a clear success of the Czech Republic, a clear success of European policy and a clear basis for effectively facing Europe's migration policy. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. And now, President Andrej Babiš is signed in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u4	So hello, Madam President, fellow Members, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Well, we know the Minister, so I assume he's gonna tell me I don't understand. More or less, I have been focusing on this issue since 2015 and de facto until 2021, so for several years, and as one of the few ministers or premieres of the European Council, I always go to the scene of the crime. That's why I visited Frontex in Warsaw, which is why I visited Operation Sophia, this is a smuggling operation, which is why I was at a conference in Palermo on Libya, which is why I visited Malta, Italy. In short, I have x speeches about it - in the United Nations, in Davos, everywhere. And we fought against it. And again, that lunatic Timmermans is behind it. Because we don't want anyone for us to determine who lives in our country. It won't be those smugglers who charge up to EUR 6 billion a year because they smuggle everything - cigarettes, weapons, and people who pay for it. So the decision that the Minister made and we rejected in 2020 because after we stopped the quotas in June 2018, Timmermans didn't give up. Maybe you forgot we were being sued. Then it went down. And they kept going on and on about the project that we rejected. And I don't understand what happened when the Minister agreed to it. [[14.40 hours]] Here, in an interview for Law, the Minister says: The House has repeatedly adopted several resolutions from 2015 until now, when it has committed the government not to accept the introduction of permanent quotas and so on. The Minister claims that Petr Fiala's government continued its mandate. Well, I didn't. And the first question about the minister is if he could show us the mandate. I have a mandate in my hand here, it is the framework position of 20 October 2020, which was presented by Jan Hamáček, Minister of the Interior for the Government. And the position clearly states that the proposal is considered by the Czech Republic to be very problematic and contradictory with the long-term position of the Czech Republic and that we will therefore endeavour to eliminate the obligation of participation and so on during the discussion. So it is not true, as the Minister claims, that he would simply continue in a position. I'm wondering if the Minister could show us the position approved by the government. I don't know how this government works. We know it doesn't work, it doesn't work, it doesn't work. For us there was a so-called European agenda, that was before the government, and there were all the positions of ministers who represented the Czech Republic in Brussels. That was voted on. So I would like to know if it was voted whether the Minister really had the mandate that he claims, and I do not understand how it is possible if the vote was voted and if the mandate had it, it was completely contrary to the Government's programming statement. You are saying that you will increase support for migration camps outside the European Union. That's exactly what we said - let's act. Of course, Turkey, which stopped the migration, but cashed in EUR 3 billion for it, Egypt, Libya, Algeria, Tunis, Morocco, were all our proposals. Let's act there so they don't come to us at all. Anyone who comes to Europe should be invited. So it's against the government's declaration program, it's against the SPOLO program. It has in its agenda: the European Union must defend its external borders more effectively. At European level, the process of rejecting asylum seekers needs to be accelerated. Fight the smugglers. Well, that's all we're saying. At the same time, we insist that each country of the European Union be free to choose its own migration policy and so on. So it's totally inconsistent with what you have in the program. Next thing. I would be interested if you had the mandate, and if Mr Benešík, who, as far as I know, is still the chair of the Committee on European Affairs, I went to the meeting of the committee before each European Council, where I informed what I would discuss there. We behaved. We didn't ignore you. Not at all. So I'm asking if Mr. Rakušan was on that committee on European affairs and if the committee knew about it and if Mr. Benešík actually organized it? So that's the second question. The third question, this is the text - 150 pages. I didn't find any exception. And basically what the Minister says doesn't make sense, because I understand that the pirát, TOP 09 and STAN wanted to break the V4. That's how they did it. That V4 on 29th. 6. 2018 at 4:00 a.m. killed those quotas. I did! We didn't allow it! They didn't. And the situation in Europe has changed. In 2015, when Viktor Orbán built the fence, 170 kilometers, everyone screamed, what is it? Sebastian Kurz welcomed migrants. Angela - Wir schaffen das. And what is the situation today? Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos won the election because he promised voters that he would build a fence 200 kilometers on the border with Turkey against migrants. [[Kyriakos Mitsotakis]] The same day as you approved this scandal, this scandal agreement, the Syřan stabbed five people in France, four of them children. A syřan who had asylum from Sweden. And Macron said he would tighten migration policy. Sweden, who was the leader in receiving migrants, where there are parts of some cities where the police are afraid to go to no go zone because they will kill them there. Crime. Denmark. Everyone's changed. Sebastian Kurz won another election after he welcomed 2015 with the fact that he was against migrants. So in this situation, this crazy Europe, and I don't know who's all that... But the point is, the Minister voted for it. In this situation. The Minister on TV said only migrants from Eastern countries come to our house. Well, of course it's... I ask, why, Minister, did you introduce checks on the Czech-Slovak border? Why? And who walked across the border? Well, migrants from Syria. How did they get there? Well, they came the southern way through the Balkans, because even the Hungarian fence isn't complete, there's 20 kilometers that aren't finished. And then when the Slovák started screaming that what it was, and Prime Minister Heger was screaming, the Prime Minister woke up and met with the Slovak Prime Minister at kramářův's villa and discovered Amerikua We must defend illegal migration on the external border. I was on the outside line. I was in North Macedonia on the border. We had 50 of our cops there. Absurd situation. From the Schengen area, from Greece, which received billions of euros to combat illegal migration, illegal migrants came to no Schengen area. I was on that fence with Hungary, there were 50 of our cops who arrested 7,000 illegal migrants and how many smugglers. And on the other hand, she was expecting cars with German plates and Austrian plates to take the euro from the migrants. So in this situation, when Europe is actually set in a completely different way, this insane shock is coming. So I don't understand at all. The minister contradicts himself. I also remember that the Němec, Mr Kretschmer, wanted to introduce checks with the Czech Republic. Why? Because the Syřan simply came through Slovakia to Germany. And instead of the Prime Minister joining the Serbian President's initiative, the Austrian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Prime Minister, who agreed at the same time in Budapest, and then, I think, in Belgrade, they will together defend the external Schengen border, so it was only a statement. And of course... So that's the contradiction that the minister says it's actually great. I don't know what's great about that. I don't know. I don't think there's anything great about it. For the first time in history, it's actually... Or officially, the countries of the European Union say that 30,000 illegal migrants will be accepted each year. How will they count them? I don't know. Now they almost stole a boat. They're acting like the pirát who want to destroy our lives. I'm talking about our pirát, they're acting the same way. And at this point, we call them smugglers, well, 30,000 minimum, and what if it's a million? And the Minister says it doesn't concern us, we have an exception. I don't know where the exception is. Even if we did, the exception, even if we did, it's fundamentally unacceptable. We live in the Schengen area, and if anyone thinks that if hundreds of thousands of migrants come again, that it doesn't concern us, they're completely out of control. And then, of course, the document is completely insane, there's the calculations and so on. So... I don't understand. I don't understand why... And I understand that Poland was opposed, Slovakia was delayed, Hungary is, of course, opposed. And why doesn't it coordinate anymore? And I said those questions. I have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister how much the Ukrainian migrants cost us, the refugees? The Prime Minister reacted irritablely on Prima's television that it was actually scandalous. But I am only asking so that we can objectively assess the budgetary impact this has on the budget, which is not being drawn up and which is not working. Covid. When this government keeps saying, well, that's terrible, the Ukraine, how it landed on our budget. Then why don't you count it? [[14.50 hours]] In 2020, GDP went down 5.5 percent, that's 82 billion, that's the Ministry of Finance's figures, and we spent 370 billion, that's $455 billion together, we released. That's traceable. And I'm just asking how much this government has issued to help Ukrainian refugees, which we have supported. We discussed it, we didn't have... We're just asking how much it is. I read that 30 billion or 40. Yeah, well, even the budget, we could talk about how much Mrs. Černochová put on the guns to judge. But now I'm gonna stick with the migrant money. So the minister said that - of course they're attacking Babiš, stop the rumors, the lies that we didn't get a crown for Ukraine. I don't know, it's the first time I've heard of your conversation that you've received 1.3 billion crowns. Okay, that's amazing. I think you should have had 40 billion in the Presidency. Forty! Poland received EUR 200 per refugee, that's EUR 320 million, that's what? 8.7 billion. No - 7.7 billion. So I'm wondering. I haven't heard of it. I have consistently criticised Prime Minister Fiala's failure under the Presidency. Your entire presidency ended with the applause of that madman, Timmermans, who thanked you. You agreed to stop production of cars with Euro 7 internal combustion engines, impacts on people who have real estate, emissions, cars, everything wrong. Well, at least you could have solved the money. If I had started fantasizing now, and I didn't even want to believe it yesterday when I counted it, I would have said: The European Union, we, the Czech Republic, have 516 000 Ukrainian refugees. We don't want them here anymore - I repeat for journalists who will twist it again - and we will send them to you! Hey. Do you know how much money it is if they refused to give us the money times 500,000? 238 billion! 238 billion it is. Of course it is absurd, but I find it scandalous that, after the southern states, Greece, Italy, Spain received money for illegal migrants in the long run, and the Minister says that he received CZK 1.3 billion, well that is small, and that he will ask. So I'm asking, how much did we get, and why didn't we get at least the $40 billion that you didn't advertise? I don't understand why you went without coordination. The Minister said the Polák bailed, that he was left alone and made an exception. I don't know how it works. After all, the Polák are your best friends, they put the Prime Minister on the train to Kiev. teď Morawiecki said ha ha ha, no Turów, and he said hard that he would benefit until I don't know when, so he cheated on him again. It doesn't matter. I'm just saying, don't say it's convenient. What's the advantage? When someone says that they will receive at least 30,000 migrants each year, that is a clear invitation. I don't understand the word "obligatory." So they were mandatory quotas, we stopped them, and, of course, Timmermans and other green freaks in the European Parliament, and when Ursula von den Leyen became president of the European Commission, she had to kiss the ring to those green fanatics, otherwise she wouldn't have become one. That's their trialogue. So I don't understand, if it's at least 30,000, it's supposed to happen again, so it's gonna be permanent, and how are we gonna affect that? It's all nonsense. And of course, not only the biggest opponents, Poland - your role model... well, too bad, it's not your role model, because our people go there to buy everything, but your ally. So why didn't you guys move on together? Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that Warsaw would not pay for the mistakes of the migration policy of others, and refused to accommodate any incoming predominantly Muslims, although it gave refuge to 1.6 million Ukrajinec fleeing the Russian war. What solidarity is this of the European Union? Yes, we were second, number two - 516,000. No, third, the Němec had a million. They gave us nothing. But if they gave you something, why don't you say so? But if it's 1.3 billion, it really sucks. So the Polák was against, the Maďar clearly, Italy and Greece expressed concerns about whether the new system would work due to the refusal of some states to accommodate people. Both of these countries, which are often the first countries of arrival, are worried about being overloaded, while countries that are further away from the external borders of the block are usually reluctant to receive arrivals. And complex solidarity takes a long time to get going. Yes, we as V have approved that each country will give - and I think the Czech Republic has spent EUR 8 million and each country has spent EUR 8 million to buy ships for the Libyan Coast Guard. It's the mob, the smugglers! It's the Mafia! I saw it in Warsaw, Frontex, footage. Again with the nonsense that we need... No, we need Frontex to watch it from the top. The external borders are to be guarded by us Member States. That is, of course, another subject. So we have actually returned in some form by 2015, because solidarity cannot be mandatory. Solidarity is what? It's a gift, it's voluntary. So, mandatory quotas and mandatory solidarity? It's a contradiction, it's totally crazy! It's abnormal. It's abnormal. So it's wrong, and of course it won't work. What are they gonna count, the 30,000? How are they gonna count it? Where? Is that gonna be some kind of counter at the border? What nonsense is this? How's this gonna work? And that is what Italy and Greece are talking about. So after we rejected the quotas and understood that this illegal migration was wrong, Europe is going back to 2015, yes. It's not like Angela Merkel screamed wir schaffen das and come all, but it's just another way. It's refined. The minister says Babiš, what is he doing? Rumors, say he's scared. I'm scared. My wife was in Nice this afternoon when that fanatic killed 83 people on the boardwalk des Anglais. And the assassinations. Who knows who's coming here? Who knows? Have you forgotten all about that? Sweden isn't enough? Magdalena, former Prime Minister - I always made fun of her: so, Magdalena, does it work how many migrants do you have? The police are scared there today. How many people have left Sweden. They themselves declare it was wrong. And it is interesting that this happened during the Swedish Presidency. That's completely - I don't know what the connection is. So that's totally unacceptable. We want to know the mandate, we want to know when the government discussed it, we want to see the minutes. We want to know if the Minister had a mandate from the Committee on the European Union. It's against the government's programming statement. We want to know how much money you got. But even if you got the exception, you actually did a very bad job, very bad, because you just can't count on it. And in principle, it's wrong. I have repeatedly called on Europe at the European Council, and we have also shared the competences. I said I'd help the Španěl with Morocco, who then sent migrants through Ceuta. Do you remember how many were there? Algeria, Libya and so on. Yes, and Erdogan had the trigger - he let go, he didn't. He had 3 million of those refugees. I told you repeatedly, let's solve Syria and have people come home to you! Syria was a beautiful country. She's devastated. Yes, there's a dictator. But they should have dealt with it. They should have dealt with it. Yes? [[15.00 hours]] So if anyone thinks Europe is inflatable and there's room for everyone here, then let them think so, but not us in the Czech Republic! We don't want it. We have accepted 516 000 Ukrainian refugees and it is simply not possible! It's not possible. So it's obvious what this is all about. The European Commission and, of course, some European Members want to decide about us. And those who were telling the truth out loud like Orbán... or Ursula threatened Meloni that if you Ital chose Meloni, you wouldn't get the money. Money. And Babiš - conflict of interest. Totally made-up thing. So that's Europe! Kiss the ring and wait for the order! Unbelievable! And this is what the Fialův government did. So Green Deal will destroy us, yes, and now this blow. So as the Minister will certainly explain, he'll say anything, it's wrong. They were supposed to say no, and if this actually works in practice, it's an absolute disaster for us. Here they ask the Minister how long it will take. He doesn't know. He doesn't know. Yes, temporary protection. That means that if temporary protection ends, that's another question, then actually, if they give us some quota, that solidarity quota, then we're going to pay it? I don't understand why. I don't understand why! So just the argument, it can't be refuted. There is no denying that Poland, which has received the most refugees, was against it. You should have held Poland's position. And I don't understand how this happened. It's wrong. And thank you for the topic for European elections! I thought we were just going to talk about Green Deal, that you destroyed Europe and you were destroying Europe with Green Deal. But you want to destroy her with illegal migrants! So thank you for the topic and I'm going to run the whole European election and the whole campaign!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I now have an application for a priority-right programme - President Tomio Okamura. That's what she was like... Yes, he's here. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the programme of today's opposition to the House's extraordinary meeting is that the Fialův Government, specifically the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, agreed last week in the European Union a commitment to the compulsory solidarity of the Czech Republic with countries with high numbers of illegal migrants. The European Union will order us to accept illegal African, Islamic and other immigrants, or to pay half a million crowns for each unaccepted. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD. It is treason, or rather, treason and betrayal of the Fialův government five-calice on our citizens and on our country. And it will irreversibly damage our country safe, civilised, socially and economically. The Fialův Government wants to turn the Czech Republic into an immigrant country. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement voted on behalf of the Fialův Government at the meeting of the Interior Ministers of the EU Member States on 8 June for the European Union immigrant distribution system. Unlike the Polish and Hungarian Minister, the proposal was supported, and the Fialův Government has betrayed all our allies from the so-called Visegrad Four. Poland and Hungary voted against. Four other countries - Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Malta - abstained in the vote. The Fialův Government and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan did so without any prior discussion of this matter in the House or with the opposition and with their vote they seriously damaged the national interests of the Czech Republic. It can be called without exaggeration and national treason. In principle, it is compulsory for illegal immigrants to be redistributed between EU Member States, mainly Muslims who seek asylum in a particular Member State, and if another Member State refuses to accept them, it will pay half a million CZK, 22 000 euros for each immigrant, within the quotation marks of compulsory solidarity. We in the SPD believe that solidarity cannot be mandatory, but only and exclusively voluntary. Otherwise, it is a forced dictation and a loss of sovereignty. In our opinion, the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement should resign from office for this act, as should the entire government, which should resign. The name of today's extraordinary meeting of the House is, in agreement with the government coalition: Information of the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan on approved compulsory solidarity. In fact, just the title is absurd. Are we sovereign countries? If so, then no foreign power can impose any mandatory solidarity on us. The only one who decides to stay strangers in our high ground must be us. That would be normal. Unfortunately, the current reality is that we have a collaborating Purple government that does not defend the interests of the Czech Republic, but the interests of Brussels, Berlin, Washington and Kiev. The Czech citizen and the Czech Republic are in last place for the Fialův coalition. It's a sad statement. Are we a democracy? If so, in democracy, citizens have all the power in their hands and whether, when and whom we accept into our country must be decided by citizens. Citizens, not unelected Euro Commissioner in Brussels or their puppets in Prague. The fact that Brusel imposes fines on any migrant whom we do not accept in our own country is offensive and humiliating, and it speaks of a relationship that the EU government has with vassal countries like us. You won't listen, so punishment will come! And it also speaks of the approach of the treasonable Fialův government five-coal ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN and TOP 09 to our country and to our citizens. The fact that foreigners are trying to control us and take over our country, aliens who have never lived here with us and can't even speak our language, is a repeated phenomenon in our history for millennia. Like collaborators who, for cheap money or any other crippled advantage, unscrupulously betray our country and their fellow citizens. The German Empires have always usurped the right to conquer our country, and our ancestors have defended our freedom, our language, our culture and our sovereignty for over a thousand years with weapons in their hands. This was the task of all the rulers and all the governments, and those who embezzled from this, those who sold our country, they are just a great disgrace to our history. Fialův's government is from the beginning a obedient footman and executioner of the dumbest and scariest plans that sick heads bear in Brussels. During Thursday's vote last week at the meeting of the EU Interior Ministers, the Czech representative, the Minister of Interior, Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, voted in favour. He did not have the courage to abstain in the name of the Fialův Government, nor to abstain, just as the Slovák, Malta, Lithuania or Bulgaria did, and he had no honour or courage whatsoever to vote against like Maďar and Polák. And yet the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, is brazenly feeding us stupid lies because the Fialův government has already taken 300,000 immigrants from Ukraine, so he says the Czech Republic will not have to pay anything. Minister, stop making people look like idiots! For example, the Polák have accepted even more Ukrainian migrants than your government, while voting against it! Moreover, this reform of the EU's migration policy will also apply for the future, and in its comments, Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement confirmed directly my words that he wants to make the Czech Republic an Fialův country in line with the dictation of Brussels. In this context, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki stated that no financial penalties imposed on his country by Brussels would apply. He also said, quote: "As long as the Government of Rights and Justice is in power,'which is the Polish ruling party, "we will not allow anyone to impose on us any migration quotas, refugee quotas from Africa, the Middle East, arab, Muslims and God knows who else! " [[PiS]] End of quote by Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecký. [[15.10 hours]] Polish Minister for European Affairs Szymon Szynkowski said that Warsaw disagrees with imposing absurd ideas. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has rightly influenced the European Commission that he wants to make Hungary a country of immigrants violently. [[Accused]] He also directly said that Brusel is abusing powers. These are the statements of the Polish and Hungarian Prime Minister. Let the Home Secretary Vít Rakušan stop lying to us. Let the Fialův government stop lying to us and destroy our country. The recipe for migration is simple and exactly the opposite. Brussels and European countries must end supporting migration. If a migrant doesn't get a dime after joining Europe, if the states and the immigration non-profit organizations aren't here to support it - even the state-paid immigration non-profit organizations - then the main motivation for attacking Europe is the masses of Afričan, arab and Ukrajinec. It is also necessary to defend borders and to punish any illegal crossing of the border with immediate expulsion. An immediate expulsion should mean a real immediate transfer of illegals across the border so that, as last in France, such a frustrated migrant does not begin to murder in the desire to remain at least in a luxurious European prison. The SPD calls for the restoration of the protection of our national borders and, in the long term, we propose the adoption of a referendum law, including a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, which, however, rejects both the Fialův Government Five-Calice and the ANO movement. The SPD movement is also the only party in Parliament that promotes such a referendum so that our citizens can decide their future in their country. Brusel fights soda gas. I am interested in an honest analysis of how many people in Europe have been killed by carbon dioxide in the last ten years compared to how many people have been murdered, raped or assaulted and robbed by migrants. Migration mainly from culturally hostile countries is undoubtedly many times more calamity than CO2. Czech pensioners or singles and families with children often have worse conditions than the generous Fialův government provides migrants. If we want to take care of poor, helpless and endangered people, Mr. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues from the five-wheeler, if you want to help, you have ten, maybe hundreds of thousands of your own citizens in our country, who are impoverishing and needing your help. You don't have to invite rich speculators from Ukraine, you have your own blood here in your own country that needs help and that still cries for help in vain. Help the needy, but first your own, so that our citizens who built this country have a decent standard of living. No one has ever given you the right to give our country to foreigners. None of you, from the parties to the government coalition, was elected with the program to sell the Czech Republic and its citizens. None of you have been elected to rob Czech pensioners, Czech companies, Czech families, to raise taxes, reduce pensions, rob health care and, vice versa, to give money to migrants. You and the voters kind of forgot to tell us that before the election. The Minister of Interior, Rakušan of the STAN movement yesterday at the press conference, defended his position that "the agreement does not mean mandatory relocation quotas and at present the Czech Republic is exempted from paying any contribution'. According to him, states with more than 2 percent of refugees from Ukraine in their territory will be released. This concerns the Czech Republic, Poland and the Baltics. According to Rakušan, refugees in the Czech Republic will remain in temporary protection for two to three years and some will want to stay afterwards. The Czech Republic could thus be the recipient of money for them, said the Minister of the Interior. Well, here I will perhaps just remind the lie of that lying former ambassador of Ukraine in the Czech Republic, Perebyjnis, who publicly said in the media that all Ukrainian migrants will return to Ukraine. I told you it was a lie last year. I was right here being blamed. I was right. Of course I was right, that's right. I don't know what the Home Secretary was really implying. The system, if it is simply in the Union - and we have, truth, the opportunity to vote for it - to keep migrants, or to accept others, or to pay fines. This is the choice offered by the Interior Minister Austrian and the Fialův Government Five-calice. By the way, the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, praised Ukraine's migration and praised the fact that it did not appear in any way in criminality. Yes, if we read last year that a ukrajinec had murdered, we could seem to be calm. According to the media, Ukrajinec killed Ukrajinec. This spring, for example, a bunch of Ukrajinec attacked and beat up two husbands, Albánec and Russia in my neighborhood. Reason? They spoke Russian on the street last night. Once again, we could seem to be at peace when the Čech were not involved. The last murder or killing in Brno already concerns a Czech citizen. The ukrajinec killed Rom people, followed by a violent retaliation against the Ukrajinec. Worst of all, there's a rumor that the police are supposed to have orders of misdemeanor and minor criminal activity of Ukrajinec not to solve, or at least not to mediate. Yet the Minister claims that mass migration from Ukraine had no influence on crime. By the way, this is where I'd like to say that the SPD movement is preparing a bill amendment, because, as we've learned, police are not allowed to state its nationality under the current law in the case of arrest of a suspect. So we're planning a bill amendment so that in the event of arresting the suspect, the police can state the identity of the prisoner. If it is a Czech citizen - no one is ashamed of being a Czech citizen - the Czech citizen has been detained. What's the big deal? We are in the Czech Republic, what is the problem? I think it is a legitimate requirement to know when he was not a Czech citizen. Who are you protecting, what's your problem? Or are they ashamed that a Ukrainian citizen or an Arab or someone else has been arrested? I don't see anything pejorative about it. My whole life, people have been telling me I'm half Japonec. I don't have a problem with that. I'm half Japonec - what's the problem? - and half Moravák. I don't know why anyone says there's something pejorative or offensive about saying what nationality or nationality is. I'm proud to be half Japonec. I am half the man from one of the most advanced countries in the world, more advanced than the Czech Republic, unfortunately. I would simply like to do so there, of course, to be similar in the Czech Republic, economically, by the way politically and conservatively patriotic approach. But that's what these governments like Fialův's five-calice government are defending, throwing us into misery and chaos. Because, of course, citizens are now legitimately asking what it is - and it has been going on since Sobotkův's government raised the floodgates in the migration crisis in 2015 - what nationality or jurisdiction is. But even if it's a national, let it be mentioned. Why not? Let them know who's who and who's doing this. I think citizens have a right to know that information. So we're preparing this amendment to the SPD law. We will, of course, hand it over in the near future, and I hope that the government coalition will not block this to end the speculation whether it has been detained by a Ukrajinec or someone else. You just need to know. And these ridiculous, stupid, rumors that it's gonna make you hate me like this. Please, if someone is committing a crime against completely innocent people, who are you protecting here? That's completely nonsense. You need to know who it is, put it in the statistics and the statistics to keep a public eye on it. Now let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, dry facts. According to official police statistics, 181 991 crimes were registered in the Czech Republic in 2022. Compared to 2021, there was an increase of 28 758 acts, a percentage of 18,8%. There's been a rise in violent crime out of total crime. We also record an increase in this area, namely plus 10,2 percent, namely an increase in 13,180 acts. Increase of violent crime in the Czech Republic under the reign of Petr Fiala and the Minister of Interior of Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement. [[15.20 hours]] So there's a huge increase in crime in your government, there's a huge increase in crime by 18,8%, 20 percent almost, and there's a 10% increase in violent crimes by 13,180 under the Fialův Government and under the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Imagine that there are 13,000 more violent crimes in a ten-million-dollar republic. So divide it here into individual districts and individual places. It's just that the Fialův government can't handle the situation at all, even the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. Instead of going this way, crime has gone for the better, it's going steeply for the worse. Because you are dedicated to Ukraine, Ukrajinec, Washington and everything, but you don't care about the Czech Republic and the security of our citizens. You guys totally bailed. You don't care. I wasn't surprised that President Petr Pavel spoke of the acceptance of the Czech-American treaty on the presence of American soldiers in the Czech Republic as a priority yesterday at the Gremium and is on the mountain. I thought that-- well, that wasn't exactly what I thought, but because it's futile, but I thought I'd expect the Fialův government to finally address expensive food, expensive energy, unavailable housing. No! Mr. President, like the Fialův government, cares about American soldiers being here. Well, he's your candidate, isn't he? I mean, it's, of course, hand in hand, isn't it? I think the priorities are elsewhere. Perhaps it is also the fact that there is also a rise in severe violent crime under the Fialův Government. And the culprit, of course, is Petr Fiala's government. This is what we're talking about. Violent crimes with the highest increase in the period from January to December 2022 are: Intentional bodily harm - an increase of 12.7 percent to 4 171 acts. Blackmail - 1 242 cases, 29.1 percent increase last year. Dangerous threats - 1 801 cases last year, an increase of 10.8%. Robbery - 1 413 acts, increase by 15,7 %. And the abuse of a person in a common dwelling - 430 acts, plus 6,7 percent. Minister, you know, Rakušan from the STAN movement, there's not a single parameter... all the parameters I'm reading here, so there's an increase. Since the Minister of the Interior is Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement and the Fialův government is here, so basically all violent acts, all violent crime is growing steeply! And I haven't said murder yet because I'm the last one to keep it. Because that's where the biggest increase is for Minister Vít Rakušan. A total of 150 murders were committed last year, an increase of 49,9%! Vít Rakušan from the STAN movement does not run the Ministry, instead the Ministry is using the Ministry to politically combat the opposition. As long as the SPD is always putting in some kind of report to slander us and smear us without proof. So instead of dealing with crime, you're getting dirty at the Ministry of Opposition on purpose. We're reading one criminal case that concerns your movement, and now there's another case, right, that was in Prague 5, right?, as the media said, that the company gave you a sponsor's gift and you gave her a contract for it, Prague 5, that was at the DA's office. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mainstream, that's what he wrote. The name of the representative, Prague 5, I believe, is the council, STAN, sponsor's donation went to the STAN movement and the company got a contract for it. Well, I don't know if it's worth it, but apparently the media connected it. Now I don't know who wrote it, the Young Front tonight, I think it was, iDNES, the Young Front tonight, investigative journalists. That means, like, I know that everyone can have their problems within the party, I get it, I'm saying that again, honestly I get it. But you can't forget the work you're supposed to do for the citizens! So, in your line of work, and why am I reading these stats here? Because you have agreed here to reform the EU's migration policy, which will only make the situation worse, and you are already making the situation worse by accepting hundreds of thousands of other migrants completely unruly. And provenly, all the crimes, the violent ones, are growing behind your actions. I wonder why? It would be good for the media to inform the public about the results of your activities in 2022. Because the statistics are scary. All violent crimes, crimes as such, under the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan, record a sharp steep increase. Well, that's not a good result. And it's hard data, official police statistics. So I hope that, like Prime Minister Fiala, who here contradicts Eurostat's statistics from your beloved European Union, it is a statistical office when it is not appropriate, so suddenly you conflict, yet Eurostat is right. So I hope you don't contradict any personal attacks here by official police statistics. It would be really good here to say why there's such a steep increase in your ministry. Why isn't there a drop? Why can't you handle it then? By the way, and to continue with the statistics, the victims of the murders are in the vast majority of persons related to the perpetrator, especially relatives or partners, and the number of foreign nationals as victims of the murders has increased. So another objective number. So what's the situation? Under the Fialův government, we have fewer places in schools for our citizens, there are no drugs, so our students can't get into high school with good benefit. The government bailed. There's no medicine for our citizens, there's no pension money for the Fialův government. But last year, we have almost 43 percent more murders, 10 percent more violent crime. And overall, crime rose by almost 19 percent in the Czech Republic, i.e. by almost a fifth compared to the previous year. This is the result of the Fialův Government and the result of the work of Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement. And most importantly, you are interested, Minister, in adopting the EU's migration policy, instead of dealing with and being somewhere in Rwanda, or where you were in Central Africa, and yet you have criminality here and the victims are Czech citizens. Even foreigners, but also Czech citizens, most of them Čech, the victims. Crushing majority. So if I go on -- and these are serious numbers, and I think it's time for the minister to comment. And the Purple government. Let's move on. We see the benefits of economic migration live here and are such that falling real pensions or missing drugs are de facto still a slight tax unless we become victims of some violent crime. When you tell and lie again, Minister You vědět, Rakušan, that I haunt when you lie that what I'm saying here is extreme or populism, hard police statistics that prove that your government can't control the state, please read the statistics carefully and look at crime statistics all over Europe. There's a clear and indisputable straight line here. The more migrants, the more crime. That's right. And you have a choice here: to protect our citizens, or to hand them over to the growing crime of foreigners. Your choice, your responsibility. As has been said many times, you lied in the morning, you lied at noon, you lied in the evening, and you lie to this day. By the way, those are the words of the renowned economist Ilona Švihlíková, who said Prima on TV. But even if she didn't say it, I like it, the words, because it fully captures the current situation of the Fialův government. You've come to the government and power completely proven by fraud because you've made a cruel mistake with the voters. You said something completely different before the election than you say now. Respectfully, than you're doing now. You have no right to any of what you're doing here. You are the worst government in the Czech Republic and Prime Minister Fiala is even the worst prime minister in the world from all democratic countries, which has recently been published by the renowned American agency Morning Consult on the basis of a detailed survey among national citizens. And I am not surprised at the views of citizens who say that you are the worst government that has harmed this country since the occupation of German Nazis. We can't solve migrants' problems by taking them home. No. Only the problems will be brought to Europe and the Czech Republic. And the Czech Republic is not inflatable. Moreover, your government has indebted our Republic to the ears in a short time, so the state has no money and you are borrowing everything on debt! Money from the European Union is also a debt. [[15.30 hours]] Powers, especially the US and NATO, need to stop supporting wars, both in Syria and in Ukraine. Let's help, but not by sending tanks and guns. When Western countries stop supporting local corrupt governments and actually start helping, helping to build their economy on an equal footing, then believe that there will be no need for quotas, because Afričan will also be better off in their own country. It's enough that rich Western countries don't steal from the poor and the weaker, and at the same time our government elites don't let them rob our country. And like I said, the basic motive is -- let's help. But first, your own helpless and needy, not handing out our money to strangers. Finally, I repeat: the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement should, in our opinion, resign from office for this meeting, as should the entire government, which should resign, even given that according to all recent surveys, only around 30% of citizens trust your government. And that's really patheticly little. I would like to conclude by saying that, following the opening of the debate, the chairman of our parliamentary club will propose a resolution on behalf of the SPD, which, of course, will be voted on here in the House, if the government coalition allows this meeting, and I have heard that you will allow the approval of the agenda for this meeting. So the SPD is proposing a resolution to be voted on: I. The Chamber of Deputies notes that illegal migration is a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term. II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to join the positions of Poland and Hungary and reject the principles of direction in the institutions of the European Union towards a proposal for a regulation laying down common procedures for international protection. Finally, I would add: If the House rejects this resolution, at the time the SPD is in the government, we will abolish these positions on these documents and support illegal migration by the government of Petr Fiala and join the positions of Poland and Hungary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. And I have a warning here. The Prime Minister has joined the debate, but now I don't know whether he was thinking about the program or later. But I think we're gonna do it the way we agreed to do it, that we're gonna go on and on and on. So now no one is logged in. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I've logged the logout request, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards. I'm gonna go on and, uh, I'm gonna read my apologies before the co-workers show up from the lobby. Bělor Roman apologizes from 17.15 - working reasons, Richterová Olga from 15.45 to 16.30 for work reasons and further apologizes David Šimek from 14:00 for work reasons. For the arrivals, I will repeat that we will vote on the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 107 Members and Members signed up, for 105, against none. The motion was accepted. So we approved the agenda. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of this meeting, which is
