ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our participation, I've just checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 50th meeting on 14 December 2022. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail the following day. We will now proceed to the designation of two meeting verifiers. I'm asking you all to keep your voice down. I propose that we appoint Mr Hayat Okamura and Mr Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm not seeing any other proposal for a verifier. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number one, 133 Members and Members were signed in for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members of the House of Deputies, Mr Hayat Okamura and Mr Petr Vrána. I declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the meeting: Babiš Andrej for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav from 14.30 no reason, Brož Lubomír from the whole day of the meeting for health reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav from the whole day of the meeting for family reasons, Decroix Eva from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav for the whole day of the hearing for family reasons, Hájek Jiří from the whole day for working reasons, Šimon Šimon until 14.30 no reason, kolář Ondřej from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Kovářová Věra from 17 o'clock until the end of the day without giving any reason, Metnar Lubomír from the whole day for health reasons, Naiclerová Hana from the whole day for work reasons, Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla until 18.30 for work reasons, Pošarová Marie from 15 o'clock for family reasons, Potůčková Lucie from the whole day for working reasons, Quittová Petra from the whole day for health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel all day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day of the meeting also for work reasons and Síkela Josef from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons. We will now proceed to the 50th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. Firstly, we propose to include new points in the proposal for a programme: the House Press 238, the Government Bill amending Act No. 240/2013 Sb., on investment companies and investment funds, as amended, second reading; House printing 288, Government bill amending Act No. 118/2000 Sb., on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, second reading; House printing 346, government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, the Act on Electronic Communications, as amended, in the second reading, into the Act block - second reading, with the possibility of discussing them from the second week of this meeting, and a proposal to confirm the Chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and that in the News block, proposals and other points. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week. Today, on Tuesday, 10 January, start negotiations on the first reading points of the Act block: item 7, House press 227, right to environmental information; point 11, House press 286, land transport; point 16, House press 307, local charges; point 26, House press 352, draft law on the protection of notifiers; point 27, House press 353, draft law on the protection of notifiers - related; point 92, the House press 321, health protection against the harmful effects of addictive substances, and this order will be valid for the whole week. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 January, then open negotiations with points firmly placed on Tuesday, unless they are discussed, then possibly continue with the draft agenda. At 13.45, firmly include voting points, which are point 107, a proposal for changes in the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies; paragraph 109, a proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Radio for a vacant post until 8 July 2027; point 110, a proposal for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Technical Agency. On Thursday, 12 January, immediately after the discussion of paragraph 144, the written interpelation, i.e. at 11 o'clock at the latest, of item 95, which is the House's Press 264, amendments to Annex I to the International Convention against Doping in Sport, first reading, pursuant to Section 90 para. 2. Then, if necessary, continue the points firmly placed on Tuesday if they are not discussed. On Friday 13 January, first discuss the points of the block's third reading laws, in order: paragraph 98, House printing 75, ozone-injuring substances; paragraph 102, House printing 106, information society services; paragraph 103, House printing 107, product market surveillance. Then, if necessary, discuss the points firmly placed on Tuesday if they are not discussed. Information at the end. at previous meetings The Chambers of Deputies discussed the following points: paragraph 2, House press 106, amendment of the Act on certain services of the information society, second reading; Point 3, House Press 107, Government Bill on Product Market Supervision, Second Reading; point 5, House Press 285, Government Bill on Certain Measures Against the Spread of Terrorist Content, Second Reading; point 6, House Press 312, Amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and Political Movements, Second Reading; point 8, House Press 238, Amendment to the Act on Investment Companies, First Reading; point 12, House Press 288, Amendment to the Staff Protection Act, First Reading; point 13, House Print 289, Amendment to the Law on Teaching Workers, First Reading; point 18, House Print 328, Government Bill on a Single Environmental Opinion, First Reading; paragraph 19, House Print 329, Government Bill on a Single Environmental Opinion Related, First Reading; point 20, House Print 330, Amendment to the Construction Act, First Reading; paragraph 23, House Print 346, Amendment to the Act on Electronic Communications, First Reading, pursuant to Section 90 par. 2; paragraph 108, the election of candidates for the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements. Therefore, please do not apply them. There is no need to vote on this and it will not be part of the approved agenda. [[14.10 hours]] I also have a technical statement for you. A new apology application was launched from the Chamber of Deputies meeting. In order to avoid duplication of apologies, which unfortunately happens, please insert them either through this application or send them as before to the e-mail box, e-mail address of the President-Apology@pspsp.cz, but not both at the same time. That's all on my side. Now, Madam Members, I would like you to comment on the proposal for a programme. I already have a lot of applications, but I ask you to keep your voice down so that we can hear the suggestions of our colleagues and colleagues. President Jan Jakob is the first to be entered with priority rights, followed by President Tomio Okamura on the agenda. I shall announce that Mr Kučera Michal votes with a replacement card 36. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down, so that we know what proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting will be proposed by colleagues and colleagues. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the five coalition clubs, I would like to make the following proposals to adjust the agenda for this meeting. Today, as the first point, I propose the original point number 5, the House press 263. It is a government bill on Czech Television and on Czech Radio in second reading. As a second point, I propose the original point 1, the House press 48, which is the draft law of Parliament, the Civil Procedure Code, also at second reading. On the block of first reading, in contrast to how the proposal from the Gremium fell, I propose the original point 67 as the first point. It is Parliamentary Press 165, Senate Bill on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic. As the last of the fixed points, i.e. if my previous proposal is approved, as the 8th item of the first reading block, I propose the original point 9, the House Press 252, which is the Government's draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Czech Republic. On Thursday, 12 January, after 11 o'clock or after the completion of written consultations, I propose the second point of the original point 96, House Press 65, which is the Government's proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies to agree to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion. Last but not least, on Friday as the 4th point in the third reading block, I propose the original point 105, House press 285, which is a government bill on some measures against the spread of terrorist content online. Finally, in accordance with the way we talked about the Gremium, I would like to make a procedural proposal that we should act today and vote after 19 o'clock if the first two points of today's negotiations, i.e. prints 263 and 48. I also make this proposal on behalf of five coalition clubs. So we would have acted after 19 o'clock if these two points at second reading had not been discussed by then, but we would have acted by 21 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Since the procedural proposal has been made, we will vote on it. I repeat, are we voting on today's meeting - the Member would like to comment on the counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u4	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. I would just like to make sure that this proposal is voteable, because President Jakob has first read the inclusion of the press here, and therefore we cannot vote in a procedural manner that we will discuss the first and second points before the 21st hour when it is not yet included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u5	Yes. In this case, if we do not yet have the programme agreed, we should vote on the proposal only when we are sure, because the proposal, as the President has said, was conditional on specific points. If President Jakob wanted to rephrase the proposal so that it would be a universal negotiation, that would really make sense. The MP is right about the objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u6	Okay. In order to be clear and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall make a procedural motion for a meeting and a vote after 19 o'clock. I am sure that if the two points were already discussed at that time, we will agree on the situation at the level of the presidents of all clubs, so I am adjusting the proposal in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u7	Yes, if it's a general proposal, it's okay. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I will repeat that we will be voting on the proposal that we would conduct today's negotiations and also formally vote after 19 o'clock. I am opening the vote on this proposal and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number two, 177 in attendance, for 96, against 72. The motion was accepted. We are continuing to put forward proposals to amend the agenda. President Tomio Okamura is now with priority right, followed by President Schillerová. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose extraordinary points on the agenda for this meeting. As a first extraordinary point, I would like to propose a point entitled Government does not help pensioners, citizens with disabilities and families with children. Now I would like to justify this point. Nearly a million Czech seniors already have a problem with insufficient income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood. It is very difficult for them to obtain a social benefit as temporary aid from the state. The SPD movement promotes an increase in pensions. According to the Invisible project study, up to 889 000 Czech citizens are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who are unable to cover their livelihoods in the long term, but at the same time fall through a system of state social assistance mainly due to its complexity, difficult accessibility and ininformation from the authorities. Nearly 50,000 seniors are in execution, and we in the SPD simply do not want to accept and we will not accept that the seniors live in undignified conditions and debts after a lifetime of honest work or undergo humiliating procedures for social welfare claims. According to the SPD, in the case of seniors in the first place, the need for the adoption of a minimum wage law equal to the current minimum wage for all those who have fulfilled the statutory conditions of age and periods of pension insurance, as well as for setting up a fair remuneration for pensions that would not discriminate against low-income seniors. But the members of the Purple Five-calice government have repeatedly blocked our proposals by refusing to discuss them. Petr Fiala's government is largely the cause of this crisis and, at the same time, is not capable, and this concerns mainly the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of the KDU-ČSL, presenting his own realistic and functional proposals for its solution and is also unable to provide effective social assistance from the state to socially vulnerable citizens. [[14.20 hours]] On the contrary, the Fialův Government and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, are shooting from the side proposals that would make the social and existential situation of our citizens even worse. For the last time, they had to consider increasing income, property, and excise taxes, increasing the age limit for retirement, reducing parental leave and parental allowance, or reducing unemployment aid. We fundamentally reject all this in the SPD and, at the same time, we have already submitted many proposals for positive changes to the laws in the House, especially in the social field, which would help all decent and working citizens significantly. On our part, on the one hand, it is a group of proposals that would significantly increase the incomes of working citizens. This includes raising tax discounts, tax advantages for working parents of careless children or tax bonuses for low-income workers, and then they are proposals for immediate assistance to the most vulnerable groups of citizens. Increasing the care allowance for disabled people dependent on helping others - these contributions have not increased for seven years and are already so low that they do not allow them to purchase adequate social services that they need due to their medical condition. Increase the mobility allowance for disabled citizens. Another proposal by the SPD, which is now again the mobility contribution, is completely inadequate and does not allow disabled citizens to pay rising transport costs, which is essential for them in terms of quality of life. The SPD has also passed other laws, such as increasing parental allowance for parents who care for children under four years, which has not increased for more than three years, while inflation has increased by almost 30% over that period. And we've also made proposals to help our pensioners. This is, for example, an increase in the very low basic pension component, the introduction of a minimum pension at the level of current minimum wage for all persons entitled to a statutory pension, as well as the setting of a fair pension system, which is still very damaging to low-income pensioners. We, under the SPD, will again seek to include these proposals in the House's agenda so that they can be discussed and put into practice as quickly as possible and help citizens. Here I would like to stress that the SPD has repeatedly proposed to include these points on the agenda of the meeting and the very antisocial Purple coalition has always refused and blocked us from discussing these proposals without proposing something positive to the citizens themselves. So if I recapitulate, I would like to see this special point proposed by me called the Government not helping elderly people with disabilities and families with children as the first point of this House meeting. As another extraordinary point that I would like to propose on the agenda of this House meeting on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose a point called the Purple Government wants to raise prices for water, sewerage, medicines, beer, books and so on. We have all read and learned here in the House that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS together with Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL - he is also chairman of the entire KDU-ČSL, Marian Jurečka - propose an increase in taxes to citizens of the Czech Republic. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka directly in an interview for News said that he wanted to increase personal income taxes and that he wanted to increase real estate tax. Minister Stanjura, Vice-President of the ODS, here in the Fialův Government, is talking most recently about wanting to raise VAT to water and sewers, to medicines, to beer, books and so on. That means, of course, it's from my point of view for a simple reason. The Fialův Government is preparing a new tax mix so that you can raise more money from the citizens, because the Fialův Government is indebting the Republic to the ears. That is why you want to work out of all citizens across the board, of all citizens of the Czech Republic as much money as possible, even though millions of Czech citizens are getting into poverty and have no money because of your incompetent government. So I think we need to discuss this point here in the House because you haven't informed us about it in the House, but you've already informed the media. And I would really like to know when you want to do it, how much percent do you want to increase the VAT from the current 10 percent, which is today on aqueous, sewerage, medicines, beer, beer served in restaurants, books and so on. Today, VAT is 10 percent. We have learned, officially from the media, by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, that you want to increase the VAT rate from 10 percent above, they say to about 13 percent. So you want to increase citizens' lives across the board, you want to make them more expensive with drugs, and I'll get to that, and aqueous, wavy, that is, every citizen has to pay for it, everyone - every company, every facility in the Czech Republic, let social facilities, hospitals, schools, have to pay for it aqueous, wavy. Beer in restaurants, Czech national drink, you want to make the citizens more expensive, and even books, so that if the citizens would rather stay at home to increase their beer, they could probably not even count. That means, I think it's an extremely serious point. And as for the drugs, I'm gonna get to it because it's gonna be my next draft point. So here, in the Czech Republic, because of the incompetent Prime Minister Petr Fial of ODS and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, the Vice Prime Minister, that means the second highest, one of the highest people in the government at all, Vlastimil Válek of TOP 09 lacks basic medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic. For example, penicillin is missing, which is important for anginas. Paralene, paracetamol, or temperature reduction, is missing. Ibuprofen is missing, Nurofen syrup for children for inflammation of the upper and lower airways, and you, instead of dealing with a lack of medicine and trying to sort it out, want to make the drugs even more expensive for the citizens! It's unbelievable what you guys are up to right now! And indeed - that is why I would like to propose this extremely important special point so that you present it here in the House, what are you actually planning for the citizens to hear? Now I think this is the right moment, because we have just before the presidential election, and three candidates are preferred by the Fialův Government Coalition: Mrs Nerudová, Mr Pavel and Mr Fischer. Then there are opposition candidates. That means the choice of these three candidates is equal to the choice of the Fialův government, and then there are opposition candidates, and we need to talk about it, so I think we really need to discuss this point. Of course, Fialův's government coalition is about to reject that point, because you don't want to talk about any of these points I suggest. People will always feel it on their wallets and that they don't have money. [[14.30 hours]] But it is not so pink about your management at all, which is why I propose it here, because the Fialův government is already gambling in an extremely dangerous way with the future of our country and you are leading it into disaster, as the average debt converted into CZK 275 000 per citizen of the Czech Republic has risen during your annual reign. The management of the Czech state under the government of the ODS coalition, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates ended last year with a deficit of CZK 360.4 billion. The total government debt has thus increased to CZK 2.895 trillion. So, as I said, for each Čech, there is already an average debt of CZK 275 000. The government originally planned a budget deficit of CZK 280 billion for last year. In the autumn, however, it increased it by the amendment to the Act, even though, compared to 2021, government revenues increased last year, mainly due to higher VAT collection, because you did not teach inflation, so logically it reflected in higher VAT collection, so you chose more than CZK 137 billion from the assumption. And instead of investing the 137 billion in stabilizing the standard of living of Czech citizens, you threw them out the window because the standard of living of Czech citizens has proven to be worse. This year, Petr Fiala's government plans to manage the deficit -295,000 billion crowns, and in the four-year horizon of your reign, if the government can do it for four years, which I would like to put an end to, the debt is to rise to CZK 1.2 trillion during your reign, which would, of course, cause the situation that it may no longer be on dignified health care, decent social services and dignified pensions. Reality, however, can be much worse, because according to economic experts estimates, the government will not collect on an extraordinary tax, the so-called windfall tax, imposed on energy, refineries and banks, by far as it planned. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS plans to take another loan of up to CZK 150 billion with the European Commission this year. It is a total gamble from the government of the five koalice with the future of the economy and the social stability of the Czech Republic with all the disastrous consequences imaginable. And that's what the SPD is refusing. Of course, I will briefly stop at the planned next loan, which the government wants to owe beyond all that I have said, the Czech Republic, and even for 30 years. Petr Fiala's government has said that it is seriously considering accepting an additional loan of CZK 100 to 150 billion from the European Commission. And I really don't want to leave the government - and we're doing it, we're only 20 members of the SPD, we're in a crushing minority here - but I'm just saying, let's not let the government indebt our state like Greece. This loan should cover money to finance energy projects and fulfil environmental commitments. Well, yeah, but we wouldn't need that loan if you actually cut off the necessary expenses, and the money would be in the budget otherwise. But instead, you're setting up a new office for a billion crowns, over 200 employees. You have agreed to an unlimited number of political representatives for your fellow party members, each for hundreds of thousands a month plus secretariats, cars with a driver and so on, so of course there is no money. Moreover, according to the Ministry of Finance officials, who even admit that there is a significant monetary risk for the planned loan, which is always associated with loans in foreign currency and resulting effects on the financial stability of the Czech public budgets. So, in this overall context, the SPD simply does not agree with another planned high loan, especially because its preparation takes place outside the standard process and rules of the state budget and without parliamentary scrutiny. We consider it unacceptable that, shortly after the approval of the State Budget Act for 2023, which you have voted here, which is the additional deficit of CZK 295 billion, so that the government will effectively increase this deficit by another 50 percent. This is an unbelievable gamble of the Fialův Government, which lied before the elections when it promised citizens a reduction in state debt. The Fialův Government is simply leading us on a path similar to Greece, where our state will be totally indebted and totally dependent on the European Union and globalist financial institutions. And there's one more thing I'd like to do. You, on the one hand, started some theatre in the media, and I was also part of this discussion that you are planning to reduce the deficit by 70 billion. Well, you didn't say how? That it will be, for example, an increase in taxes, taxes to citizens, I have already mentioned here that you want to make the citizens more expensive, to increase VAT, i.e. to increase medicines, water, sewers, beer in restaurants, books and the like, but at the same time that you want to take a loan of 150 billion in hand with it. So not that you're reducing the deficit, but you're actually increasing it. You're just going to put it in some other items, but the money is just one, and we need to see everything in total. So once again, as the second extraordinary item in this House meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government wants to raise the prices for watermelons, medicines, beer, books and so on. And once again, I would like that as a second point in today's House of Deputies meeting. As another point, another extraordinary point in today's House of Deputies meeting, item 3, I propose a point called the Fialův Government is refusing to address expensive food. And now I'd like to justify it. Extreme growth in food prices will continue due to the Fialův government. On the contrary, the SPD's movement promotes measures against Purple's expensiveness. He's settled the term Fialův's expensive. Basically, in connection with the government, I hear two terms: "Ukrainian government" and "Fial's precious." Many citizens still call me "Ukrainian Prime Fial" when I Petr around the Czech Republic. That's a third nickname, I'd say, a nickname, but that's what I hear from citizens. So let's go to the groceries. Food prices, which recorded rocket growth last year, will continue to increase this year according to expert predictions. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, food cost an average of 27.1 percent in November 2022 more than a year ago at the same time. However, some basic food commodities cost more than twice as much in annual comparison. It's about sugar, for example. Most basic foods, flour, milk, potatoes, fats or oils have increased by 50 to 100 percent year on year. In the first months of this year, food prices are likely to rise quite rapidly according to the experts' forecasts published in an article on the iDNES server, for example, because consumer prices usually copy producers' prices and processors' prices with a slight delay, and these increased by 30 percent year on year in November, mainly as a result of enormous growth in energy prices. These have increased as a result of the EU Green Deal project and the sanctioned confrontation with Russia, which is clearly supported by the current Fialův Government. The consequences of the EU's Green Deal, the so-called Green Deal or the Green Agreement, these translations are two, will deepen in the context of the launch of the so-called new EU agricultural policy, and this will further increase food prices. The SPD's movement has long called for immediate introduction of measures that would reduce the prices of basic food for Czech citizens, because they are no longer affordable for socially endangered groups and are forcing more and more citizens who have the opportunity to buy cheaper food abroad, especially in Poland, but also in Germany. Consider, for example, the prices of chicken breasts and many other foods that are even cheaper in Germany in the long term than in the Czech Republic. And the Němec also have much higher salaries. So here we see this direct international comparison, how badly the Fialův government runs the Czech Republic. We in the SPD are mainly promoting a rapid reduction of VAT on food until their temporary exemption from this tax, such as the model of neighbouring Poland. And they can also be selected basic foods - let's talk about it - or price regulation of some basic foods. According to the President of the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, Jan Doležal is behind the enormous increase in food prices and the disproportionate increase in foreign trade chains, which is essentially again a matter of European Union policy. [[14.40 hours]] Fialův's five-calice government has not dealt with this critical situation in the long run, does not want to deal with it, even though we have the highest VAT on food - 15 percent - from neighbouring countries. And you still want to increase VAT on some foods, for example, to beer in restaurants. But let's talk about drugs, let's talk about other things. But I think that beer is pretty important to stress, because beer is a national drink. And it must be pointed out repeatedly that Fialův's five-calice government wants to make the citizens' beer more expensive. This needs to be repeatedly emphasized and repeatedly said publicly. I think this is a very important point of your proposal, which we have read, that Minister of Finance Stanjura wants to increase it: medicines, water, wicker beer and beer in the Czech Republic. It needs to be straightened out. I confess, I like beer, and like a lot of regular people, I'm not ashamed of it, I'm happy to have a beer. It's okay. And yet, I would very much hate for the citizens to get expensive beer. And it needs to be said that the Fialův Government wants to make beer more expensive to citizens, it is very important, and so is the other commodities I have talked about. The Fialův Five - Coalition Government has simply not long dealt with this situation regarding expensive food. Here I would remind you that we have repeatedly proposed an extraordinary point here in the SPD last year to deal with expensive food, because the Fialův government doesn't deal with it, you haven't even done anything about it. Minister of Agriculture Mr Nekula - I think 99.9 percent of the citizens, I don't know, I don't have the research - he doesn't know the name of the minister at all. He's the minister for KDU-ČSL, he doesn't deal with anything. The People's Party doesn't solve anything. He's in charge of dealing with expensive food. Prime Minister Fiala, it doesn't matter. The chairman of the People's Party, Marian Jurečka, doesn't care either. And I don't know Mr. Nekul's People's Minister - my first name, because I haven't seen him speak here once, once, once, I don't know, I don't remember. I just remember once inviting him to talk here, and he even told him in private over there to talk about the expensive food. He bowed his eyes and left silently. Doesn't he have anything to say on this subject? Doesn't he know what's going on? And by the way, it's been a few months back, and then I broke the stick because I knew it was in vain. So I think that the fact that there are such expensive foods in the Czech Republic, so it is really one of many reasons and for serious reasons that the Fialův Government should end, because everyone needs food, everyone needs it. And it's a really big problem that you refuse to deal with it. So item number three, an extraordinary point on the part of the SPD today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, let me repeat, is a point called the Fialův Government is refusing to deal with expensive food. So I'm saying this to the President here, so that if you're going to comment on this for the vote. Of course, I know you're going to reject that point because you don't want to deal with expensive food. You do not want to deal with the fact that Czech citizens, millions, have gotten into trouble. You obviously don't want to deal with the price increase, too, because the government is proposing this, so you want to make it more expensive, that's really a problem. Another extraordinary point in this House meeting, which I would like to include, and if we could include it, is a point called the Fialův Government wants to introduce a new totalitarian law to introduce censorship, criminally prosecute the government for uncomfortable opinions and information and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. Now I'd like to justify it. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, he is also Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of the STAN movement, the Office of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior drew up a plan for the so-called fight against misinformation. This plan includes, among other things, the possibility of prosecuting spreaders to the government of uncomfortable political opinions and information, cutting off some opinion opposition websites from advertising and financial support in the order of up to CZK 150 million per year from the state budget, i.e. from the money of all taxpayers, including voters of opposition parties and movements. It promotes this support in the order of up to CZK 150 million annually from the state budget to the pro-government media and political non-profit organizations, which are in the opinion of the Fialův Government. In the first half of this year, there should be a law within this government project allowing the Fialův Government to block selected websites and prosecute criminally so-called spread of misinformation without clearly defining what misinformation is and what misinformation is not. In other words, the current Fialův government intends to build a network of its own propaganda media for all citizens' money and prosecute opposition political views, including the imprisonment of their carriers. That would be the end of freedom and democracy. This is an unprecedented attack on freedom of speech, speech and thinking by the government of Petr Fiala of the ODS, which has been unprecedented since 1989. This is an exaggeration, an introduction of totalitarian practices contrary to the democratic character of our state, contrary to the Czech Constitution and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of it and in which, among other things, it is part of it. 17 states that censorship is inadmissible. The SPD movement protests against this upcoming government totalitarianism and will defend freedom and democracy against the current government with all its might and with all its legal democratic means. It is therefore important that the President of the Republic become SPD candidate Jaroslav Bašta, who was the only one who said that he would call off Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the current government if elected. In what way the government imagines what misinformation is and what is not, we have seen it here last year. When someone says from citizens, for example, even from citizens who are demonstrating against expensiveness, because desperate citizens are already worried about their daily livelihoods, that they will not make it, Prime Minister Fiala will indicate them that they are rustic. It has nothing to do with it. [[Nothing]] Anyone who says they don't agree with the European Union's policy is a pro-Russian and Putinův's agent. That has nothing to do with this. Whoever wants peace and doesn't want war in Ukraine is pro-Russian or Putinův's agent. It's scary, it's scary the way Petr Fiala's government behaves. These are completely unrelated matters, but these views are perscussioned by the leaders of the government of the five koalice without any proof. There's no such evidence. But they just label it like the Goebbels did, like the Nazis did, like they did in totalitarian regime, normalization, like the communists - our Jaroslav Bašta could tell about it when they took him to prison at age 21 at the time of normalization as a student of Charles University and sentenced him to two and a half years. That means these incredible practices that Fialův's five-caliber government adopted, that's really incredible. And by the way, I have noticed that some reasonable Members, i.e. only on one side of the government's five-wheeler, have already begun to make public calls against this. Of course, it remained unanswered. So this is a really scary proposal, and I would like to ask that by me proposed another extraordinary item number 4 called the Fialův Government wants to introduce a new totalitarian law to introduce censorship, criminally prosecute for the government uncomfortable opinions and information and from the state budget finance pro-government propaganda, so that it is included as item 4 on the agenda for today's House of Deputies meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u9	Mr President, once again, I will ask for the title, a little slower, because it is really very long. The Fialův Government wants a new totalitarian law to introduce censorship, criminally prosecute uncomfortable views and information behind the government, and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. And as the fifth extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called - I will say this more slowly: the lack of basic medicines on the domestic market is deepening. The lack of basic medicines on the domestic market is increasing. And there's another sentence: the Fialův government doesn't deal with it and promotes further deterioration in health care. Fialův's government doesn't deal with this and promotes further deterioration in health care. And now I would like to give this fifth point, an extraordinary point on the agenda of today's House of Deputies, a brief explanation. The lack of basic medicines on the domestic market is continuing to deepen, and the Fialův government is clearly not working effectively. The most missing are antibiotics and medicines and medicines for children affected by fevers and respiratory diseases. Specifically, penicillin is missing for the treatment of angina, such as paracetamol or paralene, in parentheses I have marked here, this is to reduce temperatures, missing ibuprofen, Nurofen syrup for children for inflammation of the upper and lower airways and so on. Drug dropouts drive patients and parents of sick children into a critical situation. The number of patients is increasing and, according to medical experts and practitioners, this crisis can last for several months, because the government of Petr Fiala has simply underestimated the situation, did not solve it, did not monitor it, that is why. And making excuses for some shortage in the global market, that's enough to make fun of such serious problems. After all, the run-up to that deficiency was from last year, and you should have known it a long time ago, like all the experts knew, but you just bailed on it in the government. The situation is also complicated by the fact that data on the availability of certain drugs in individual pharmacies are not centrally available. Thus, doctors and patients do not have up-to-date information on whether the prescribed drug is currently available. And I think that we need to discuss this here so that citizens can get information about when the situation will improve, how it will be with these particular drugs, because you are sticking your head in the sand of the government, the citizens do not have this information, and a large number of citizens are desperately asking me these questions to ask the SPD. We've been asking about this since last year, but you're refusing to put this item on the agenda, and you're not dealing with it yourself. That is why I ask you again and again for the SPD on behalf of the citizens, whether you finally say something, how will it be and how will you resolve it? How did you miss your train? I've already said that, but anyway, when you're in government and you want to be there - we are, too, but you're stuck there, you've agreed - so of course I'm asking you to answer, because of course it's very clear that the government of Petr Fiala from ODS and the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09 is fully responsible for this, which does not solve the current pharmaceutical crisis, and instead even prepares completely crazy plans to narrow down the scope of health care, which has so far been fully covered by health insurance. After all, here I will remind the Vice-Chairman of the General Health Insurance Board, the government-appointed Vice-Chairman of the General Health Insurance Agency Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09, who said that he wanted dental care to stop being covered by public insurance, from the current public insurance system, or that people pay for it themselves. And those are crazy plans. Stomatological care for a number of citizens is already unavailable. So instead of working to improve the availability of healthcare, the government is working openly to make it worse. And we in the SPD insist that it is necessary and necessary to take measures as quickly as possible to ensure a smooth supply of medicines for Czech patients so that they do not depend solely on the commercial interests of a poorly functioning global market, pharmaceutical companies and other private entities. It would also be ideal to restore home production of basic medicines that are necessarily needed, because I also consider basic medicines as a strategic commodity such as water, energy, basic food. In my opinion, our state must simply be independent in the basic strategic areas where health and pharmaceutical policy undoubtedly belongs. So let me just say again, I have proposed here five special points for today's House of Deputies meeting, so as the fifth point in the ranking, I propose a point called Lack of Basic Drugs on the Home Market is getting deeper, the Fialův Government is not handling it and is promoting further deterioration in health care. Finally, I would just add that it is really incredible that while the Czech Republic lacks basic medicines due to its inactivity, millions of people have existential problems, you are planning to raise water, sewerage, medicines, beers, VAT on books, you are going to indebt the Czech Republic for hundreds of billions more, you are planning even a new totalitarian law in order to introduce censorship, criminally prosecute the government inconvenient opinions, and also finance it from public money, expensive food, that it is already unbearable for many citizens, so instead you have just proposed here as the main point of today's House of Deputies meeting, and we are here after three weeks, so you propose that you want to politically dominate Czech television. That's really unbelievable. This is incredible what the priorities of Petr Fiala's government are. So thank you for your attention. And I know you're going to reject all of my proposed points because you don't give a damn, your priority is to politically control Czech TV, and that's what we're supposed to be talking about all day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u11	Now I'm going to read some more apologies. In the meantime, Vice-President Jan Bartošek apologized from 17:00 to 21:00 for working reasons, Berki Jan from 17:00 to the end of the day for work reasons, Kettner Zdeněk from 16:00 to 17:00 for work reasons, Lochman Ondřej from 18:00 to 21:00 for work reasons and Wenzl Milan from 16:00 for no reason. President Schillerová is now registered, followed by Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time we've seen each other, so let me wish you a lot of health and a little bit of happiness, but that's about the only thing you're gonna hear positive from me right now. Allow me to request the inclusion of the item at the meeting as item number 1 of today's meeting day if I am not satisfied, as item 1 of tomorrow's meeting day, and if I am not satisfied even then, as item after the third reading on the meeting day on Friday. The item is called Budget Chaos of Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura and let me justify it. Confusion over confusion, that's how you could describe the actions of this government five-caliber. Last year, the government presented and submitted an amendment to the State Budget Act, which was approved here by the five-wheelers and when, as the first government in the history of the Czech Republic, it presented a budget whose expenditure exceeded an unprecedented limit of CZK 2 trillion. At the end of the year, state budget management ended up in a deficit of CZK 360.4 billion, even though revenues of more than CZK 137 billion fell into the government's lap. And the excuses for conflict in Ukraine are also odd, because, after all, as Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura demonstrated at the 2022 cash register conference, he presented that only 0,9 percent of the total expenditure was linked to the war in Ukraine. So Petr Fiala's government indebted the Czech state to an incredible CZK 429 billion in 12 months. This figure also surpassed 2020 when the whole Czech economy was almost closed and when the economic downturn was historically highest in modern history, minus 5.5 percent of GDP. The government did not even keep the promise of planned investments, which were lower by CZK 21.6 billion than planned, and this could have been modified by the amendment and also reduced in November before it gave the amendment for final approval. But it was only shortly to the end of 2022. [[15.00 hours]] Now I'm going to go into the budget for 2023. The government five-calice presented the state budget for 2023 with the Baťa deficit, which could easily fit below CZK 300 billion, but at what price! I have already talked about the fact that there are more than 30 billion missing, which are moved into an imbalance in the balance sheet of national special-purpose funds, primarily SFDI. The National Budget Board is also opposed to these accounting tricks, but it seems to be no problem for Minister Stanjura, so the deficit is not 295, but at this point, when I add it up, it is 325. But that's not the end of it. Another CZK 50 billion contained in the Modernisation Fund is not supported by the corresponding national legislation, nor is there any need for notification by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. I've been repeating this for several times. This step has not been explained by the Minister of Finance until now, until now. And we're already at a huge 375 billion, but I'm not quitting, but I'm moving on, unfortunately. According to the National Budget Board, around 20 billion are missing in the budget for more, at this point in time, quite certain mandatory pension valorisation, exceptional as a result of inflation. At the press conference, Minister Stanjura responded to this, or at the beginning of January, that he had no sophisticated explanation that when the situation occurred, it would be resolved that it was one percent of the total expenditure and that he could easily cope with the 20 billion. Well, he won't, I say as former finance secretary. So in the end, it looks like a real deficit of 395 billion, which is roughly 100 billion more than the government is presenting. So it's obvious that the government is lying to the public and trying to hide behind creative accounting, marketing and PR. Moreover - and here comes the biggest hit - this particular approach to budgetary policy is also reflected in the calculations of Stanjura and Síkela ministers. [[He's turning around.]] Everyone's gone, I understand. We all remember the chaos that arose during the tax period on unexpected profits and subsequently taxes on price ceilings, the two taxes where this duo, the duo Stanjura-Síkela, could not agree in its calculations. Similarly, we have the same for compensation for these price ceilings resulting from the amendment to the Energy Act. I'll tell you a few numbers. When the energy law was being discussed here, it was calculated that it would cost about 130 billion. Minister Stanjura for Hospodářské noviny stated that the compensation costs should be between 100 and 130 billion, so he put 100 in the budget. If it's 100 to 130, he put 100 there, it's logical that he's got 100 there, because the 30, I'm sure he'll manage the budget somehow. I'm sure he can handle tens of billions. But that's not the end of it. Last week, the government approved the government's compensatory regulation, which is expected to cover the total cost of compensation of 200 billion. So we have the third number-- 100, 130, 200. And I'm gonna make that even better for you. The Energy Regulatory Authority, certainly the most competent authority, has published a sum of CZK 42 billion higher. Moreover, the MIT, as it said, has calculations of the Energy Regulatory Authority at its disposal, so 100, 130, 200, 242. So I'm asking, what is the deficit going to be? When will this amateur, totally incompetent end up here, and I dare say the reprehensible, reprehensible budget chaos of the incompetent finance minister? This isn't normal. We're not talking about $2.5 billion in digital tax, which I've been listening to here for five years, that it was income and the law was only approved by the government after the first reading. 2.5 billion, which the budget will actually manage, even in a covid crisis. But with dozens, hundreds of billions the Treasury Secretary is cursing with, and you, as a five-wheeler, are raising your hand, raising your hand for these budgets, reprehensible budgets, so they really can't handle it. I request that this point be included in the days that I have stated, and I ask that the Minister of Finance come to discuss this point and give an explanation. He must compose, like other members of the government, his entire government's accounts to this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u13	The next is Vice-President Havlíček and follows with the priority right of Vice-President Dostálová. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to greet you all in the new year and wish you well. I do not know if my short performance will be so good for you, but it will concern the inclusion of the point I called Failure of the Czech Presidency in the climate-economic field, and please include it as the first point in today's negotiations, with the fact that I will now explain the reasons for this. And I understand that we may not like much, what we are saying, but I believe that there are a number of reasonable people among Members of the Five-Calice that I am talking to in the gallows and who must understand what I am about to say here. I am very disappointed with the finals of our Presidency, which I am not saying that the whole Presidency was wrong, but as far as the climate-energy-economic area is concerned, there I am convinced that you have acted against the political mandate with which you have been elected, and that despite what the overwhelming part of the public wants - we are not talking about industry at all - they have dressed the Czech Republic literally and into green socks with everything that belongs to it. Despite your promises, please nicely, despite the commitments you have made from my point of view a gigantic betrayal, and I will try to prove to you what you have said and what is ultimately the result of your Presidency. Let's start with the automotive industry and recapitulate your promises. Prime Minister Fiala, you said before the Presidency, and it was even just before the takeover of the government at the time of our parliamentary competition: "The ban on cars with internal combustion engines is out of the question, the European Commission's proposal to ban the production and sale of cars with internal combustion engines after 2035 is unacceptable to the government." In the Government's programming statement, you made it clear that "we will take into account possible social and economic impacts, specific conditions in the Czech Republic and so on when negotiating specific measures on the European Union. A car must not be a luxury that only a narrow group of people can afford." You were referring - basically correct - to the prices of some environmental electric cars. And "when discussing regulatory proposals, we will always thoroughly assess the impacts on industry and the whole economy in the Czech Republic and take into account the specifics of individual sectors" So how did you do it? Cars for internal combustion engines were approved in the key turning point of 2035. I would understand that you would say that there was nothing left and that you were outvoted. And you, please, were in that group of countries that raised their hand. That means you went exactly against your statement, exactly what you promised. [[15.10 hours]] Paradoxically, it also affects hybrids. Although there were a number of warning signs, for example, the head of the world's number-one car manufacturer, Mr Tojoda, Mr Tojoda, said that it was indiscreet and that he did not understand why it was introduced, for example, to hybrids that would logically fall into it. I'm just saying that Toyota and her boss are a great supporter of whether electromobility or especially pure hydrogen-based mobility. All of this will have an impact on the industry in Eastern Europe, which is dependent on car manufacturing, and, of course, at a time when it will change, there will be a different re-allocating or re-allocating of some production, and it can endanger production in Eastern countries. Likewise, it will obviously have consequences for car prices, and this will affect the prices of existing cars, because it has to be made from something on electric cars, that is logical, and car manufacturers are clearly communicating it. That means, at this point, the prices of all types of vehicles will start to rise. Paradoxically, it will have a negative impact on the environment at least in the short term, because it will only involve new cars. So what's that gonna mean? That people buy cars for internal combustion engines by 2035 instead of buying cars in 2036, 2037, 2038 and a few years later new cars, so this is where older cars or old cars will ride. So that's the result, so the impact is clear. All I'm saying is that it won't affect consumers in terms of their prices, but also the industry. Can't we see we're employing almost half a million people there, both directly and indirectly, to be exact? Can't we see that's 10 percent of our gross domestic product? Can't we see that's 23 percent of our domestic exports? Haven't we been able to consult the representatives of our carmakers? Because if you heard them, what happened a few weeks after Skoda Mladá Boleslav heard from them wouldn't have happened. Why? Because under your Presidency, the European Commission has come up with a final proposal for the so-called Euro 7 emission standard, and I would say to the conservatives of Volkswagen, and especially Škoda Auto, because as a result it will already happen in 2025 - if there is no change, but it is not there yet, and under your Presidency there has not been this change - higher emissions requirements, especially small cars. What will be the result? That their price will rise by tens of thousands of crowns. Specifically, it could be, let's listen well, up to 120,000 crowns, so the basic fabs would be close to half a million crowns. According to Škoda officials, it would not make any sense in this case to continue producing these cars since 2025. So that's the local environment support? That's the support for the economy? And we're not even talking about how it touches the citizens' wallets, those who use cars. Next: emission-free buildings. I do not know who gave this government a mandate through the Presidency to actively create an environment, because from 2027 we will have no emission-free public buildings and flats, houses from 2030. What's that gonna mean? According to all the calculations that are on the table at the moment, a conservative estimate: increase in price by 10 per cent of each apartment, every house, every public building. All of this will be in a situation where we have inflation, where we have an increase in the prices of building materials, and in a situation where, unfortunately, a number of families are unable to invest in their housing, including through high interest rates. There's not a month to get hit again. And let's look at one last thing, and that's what you did, despite all the promises you made again. One of the promises you made was to try to do something about emission allowances, ideally increase their quantity, or try to find a compromise within the meaning of the emission allowance pricing mechanism. To understand each other, I understand that this is not an easy thing at all, and I might even understand that you will not succeed in the end, because I understand that there are enormous lobbyist pressures. But under your presidency, you have succeeded in a real masterpiece. You did exactly the opposite of what you said. You've extended emission allowances to families, which means they'll touch everyone who heats fossil fuels, from 2027 to 2028 at the latest, and everyone who drives cars on internal combustion engines. What's the impact? For a litre of petrol between 3 and 6 crowns per litre depending on the price of the emission allowance in the finals, and as far as heating is concerned, a conservative estimate of CZK 5,000 is still expected with an average gas household, so it will be another CZK 13,000 to CZK 21,000 for the household. I take it if we have one or two cars with average consumption, and it depends, of course, on what the final price of the emission allowance is. And the second thing, again, despite your promise, and therefore the mandate, I say to the political mandate, you have agreed not to increase the number of emission allowances, but it will decrease. This means that, logically, the price of the emission allowance will rise again from 2024 onwards, which will mean that this will be reflected in the increased costs of companies, and logically this will turn again into a price increase, because cost inflation is one of the root reasons for having extremely rising prices here. I know that you can argue with that, and you're right that the money you collect will be put into a common bag, into a common fund, and that money will be redistributed into specific groups - socially weaker and so on. And that's really what we like, what we want? Let us remember how the support for the socially weak was redistributed as part of the housing allowance and so on. Let's remember those ten, fourteen forms. Let us remember how everyone had to ask. The question is, who will it be in the finals, when it will be and so on, because in any case it will touch everyone again, whether on the price of living or on the price of fuel. And let me finish by quoting when I started by quoting you as representatives of the five-calice, so that I might quote my honored colleague, whose arguments I appreciate, and he is Vice-President Skopeček. I'm not saying that we always have the same opinion about everything, but I have to say that in the environmental field, it's very rational. It considers the trend and speed at which European political elites push a green policy, or a carbon neutral economy, to be terribly dangerous in terms of both economic and social, and so on. What we are facing at rising energy prices is largely the result of this long years of pushed climate policy. Finally, it must be acknowledged that rising prices are the desired aim of the outcome of these policies. And now what's important. If it were the result of our Presidency - that is what Vice-President Skopeček says - at least a shift to more rational positions within the framework of energy and climate policy, it would be a great result. I would also add the necessary change to the emission allowance trading system, which also makes energy more expensive. This, please, says your colleague, a constructive person whose opinions I think we can't question here - I don't know if he's here right now, he's not here - but I would ask him if he could comment on this, as he sees it, so it's not just from the mouth of the opposition, as he perceives these conclusions that have succeeded in your government within our Presidency. That is why I want to place this point, and I therefore ask you very politely, but strongly, that the competent ministers say so, so as to justify it here, so that they clearly state with what political mandate they have made this decision, because, with all due respect, this country does not belong to you. You are here in the short term in the sense of the servants of this country like all of us, and you should do what mandate you were elected to do. And I'm saying that you didn't have a mandate for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u15	With another proposal to amend the agenda, Vice-President Dostálová comes and Mr Špičák follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u16	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. I would like to propose as the first item in today's meeting a point entitled Revision of the programming declaration. What's a programming statement? The programming declaration is such a contract with citizens, on the basis of which they have been given the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. And now you say, without blinking an eye, and you basically admit that you don't keep or break the program statement, or the citizen contract. [[15.20 hours]] You know that the shadow government works very regularly. We're actually discussing every item in your programming statement. We've done this kind of revision, and I have to say, it's very pathetic. Almost all points are in the "unfulfilled" category. It's really absurd, because by not fulfilling the government's programming statement, basically, you're going to say that you're going to change it. But what does it mean to change the government's programming statement? It means that you will officially admit that what you promised with your electoral promises and so on, that you just won't do it and that today is a different time, that you're going to do something new. How do you ask for citizens' trust again? Will you come alone before the Chamber of Deputies to ask for the House's trust when you change the government's programming statement? You're blaming it all on the fact that you couldn't fill those points because there's a war in Ukraine. A moment ago, we heard from the former Minister of Finance, the president of Alena Schillerová's club, that the spending on the war in Ukraine is about 0.9 percent of the budget. Our government has always followed the government's programming statement, and I remind you that we had a covido period, and we still didn't dare say that we were going to review the government's programming statement, and that was the government's programming statement that we fulfilled to more than 85 percent. You're talking about revision. So I have to say that I partly understand that, when I read all the media outputs and I hear, of course, the coalition leaders in the various debates, so it is probably crucial for you to cut off the fight against the grey economy, which you have already resigned to, of course, the budgetary responsibility, because a moment ago we heard the circus going on within the budget, at the same time you resigned from debt reduction, and the last information is that you resigned from European funds. At the same time, our government has negotiated record amounts, talking about up to CZK 960 billion as such. Now imagine that we are talking about debt reduction, how important it is to get as much money into the state budget as possible, and the Ministry of Finance or the government has forgotten - I remind you again - to send a request to the European Commission to 54 billion - 54 billion! These are really no small ones, and in the context of the state's management it would indeed be a very significant amount if it were to return to the budget as such. 54 billion, that is money that can serve our citizens, our energy crisis companies, or inflation. And to be fair, I'm going to compare our government. When we finished, what was the drawdown of our government's European resources on 31 December 2021. In the so-called aggregate requests for payment made by the managing authorities for all beneficiaries, CZK 444.6 billion was certified, which means sent to the European Commission for reimbursement, to pay us back the money, CZK 445,7 billion. So here you can see that the difference between what was billed and paid by the European Commission was zero. Alena Schillerová, Minister of Finance, stomped on the various ministers and ministers to get the money from the European Union as soon as possible into the budget, and this, in turn, owes her great thanks, because this government, the current government, 54 billion here, 54 billion there. It doesn't matter! What I think is very important is to remind us that we have a National Recovery Plan here. The National Recovery Plan - our government has negotiated 179 billion. This money is intended to serve the Czech Republic to recover from the coronavirus crisis. The National Recovery Plan was approved in October 2021, this is important to recall. This means that the drawing-up of this national plan goes fully to the new government. And what's the current situation? Challenges are announced late. For example, if I look at the Ministry of Regional Development, they approved the Brownfield programme for 2.8 billion before Christmas Day, there are not even announced calls yet, that is, the challenges will only be announced in 2023, then the projects will be evaluated, so the municipalities will have to have only two and a half years to implement it, because here it is necessary to recall that the National Recovery Plan has a very short drawdown period and must be fully cleared and closed by the end of 2026. So, of course, I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for the municipalities, because for them, this is a very interesting programme, even though there is a 50% co-financing, and at a time of such increased costs for the municipalities and this may be a problem, but I believe that the municipalities will be able to deal with it somehow and that they will actually be able to do so, including the tender procedures and all of this, sometime by the middle of 2025. Not to mention that the European Commission has actually had quite essential conditions for the National Recovery Plan to be programmes that will not cause any significant environmental damage and renovation should be energy efficient. And what do we read in the government's programming statement? When you got in, you wrote on this Brownfield program that you wanted it for housing purposes. Well, it didn't, it won't. This programme is not approved either, because, of course, housing policy and all subsidy programmes must be specifically notified, so none of this has happened, and really again in this box in the programme statement of this government, the government of Petr Fiala is "unfulfilled." So I'm asking, how many more of these revisions are there going to be? And maybe it would be worth it, really putting that responsibility on the table here, putting this point as the first point in today's negotiations and the revision with the House, which actually gave you confidence on the basis of the government's unfulfilled programming statement, so at least discuss it with her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u17	Mr Špičák is now signed in and followed by Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for a point as the first item in today's programme called Overstandards in health care. So the aim of my actions and the desirable objective of the subsequent discussion is to remove this pseudo-problem from the political agenda, whether the Houses or executives, because this problem is small or potentially harmful, and merely distracts attention from the problems of urgency, which are many, for example, currently medications. So for the uninformed, I'm talking this time about a thing where I've been specifically involved for many years, and I've been involved myself, and my team has been involved in creating a number of recommended procedures, whether national, so international. So for the uninformed, standards are called international terminology recommended procedures, or guidelines, and are continuously created by every national and international professional society in a precise form. It's not something we cook out of water, but it's a thing that really exists here. It is simply a validated summary of current scientific data. There's no need to create anything, because it's really on the table here, and absolutely universally these procedures must be made publicly available to all the population. So I would have to pass it on to the international terminology as a sort of superguideline. There's really no such thing. I can imagine greater comfort in care, such as, of course, eating, accommodation, private care, but all of this already exists and a richer part of our population, as well as the population anywhere in the world, all of this, this comfort already consumes. [[15.30 hours]] So comfort, why not. However, there is no reason to introduce another standard for this, i.e. assurance, because everyone can pay for it according to their individual needs. So the incompetence of the debate that I'm simply following in this area is fascinating, completely misleading to me, and promises in the finals only to contribute to the ditches in society that already exist without really addressing anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u19	Therefore, Mrs Pastuchová is now signed in and Mrs Adámková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I'm applying to propose a new item of the meeting called The Current Situation at Labour Offices. I'm really sorry that Minister Jurečka isn't here, but maybe he's listening to me in the galleys somewhere. And I will explain why I want to place this point at the first meeting in January. I would like to return to this subject, because we discussed it several times last year, last December, and we discussed the miserable situation at the employment offices. I understand that it has now been a holiday, a turning point in the year when the situation is being evaluated, and I would expect at least some of the partial issues to be resolved since January. Unfortunately, that is not the case. About a month ago, when the situation of non-payment of benefits was really critical and affected many families, we learned that the number of benefits paid rose to 1.75 million year on year. We learned that the employment authorities lack about 400 workers. The Minister praised how wages and rewards increased for his work. So how has this been reflected in the Labor Offices since January? Are there any places to fill? Not according to my information. On the contrary, there is now a large wave of illness, including the employees of the Labour Office, of course, and this situation at the employment offices is ruthless. There are few of them, and they're still missing the agenda. So in advance, I wanted to ask Minister Jurečka whether there was a chance again that benefits would not be handled and paid in time, or how the state was prepared for this situation and how he prepared citizens for it. Still in the media or from coalition MPs, ministers I hear how they help everyone - umbrella versus expensive. I've said here several times behind this counter that this umbrella doesn't have impregnation and rain, because what's going on at the office of work, and as I hear from the clients themselves, it's really terrible. In December, we discussed that, according to information received from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there were 14,750 undecided applications. Depending on the length of the processing, there were about 4,800 unfinished over 30 days, 4,500 even over 60 days. People in need didn't get the money, they didn't get the information, they didn't get the money, they didn't get the information. I'd like to ask the Minister if these figures have changed in a month or so. Finally, I would appreciate the fact that Minister Jurečka took our advice to heart that at least some of the Labour Office's agenda should be transferred to the Ministry of Environment, which he has so far also had in mind. I'm talking about material. New green savings that social workers and reporters of the Labor Office would have at their disposal to advise, for example, on how people can exchange windows, warm their homes, and so on. Or at least this is how I understand the new work of the new Deputy Minister Hladík at the Ministry of the Environment, given that he himself stated that his priority in the office would be to help Czech families with energy savings and installation of renewable resources. And Minister Jurečka now, after the approval of the coalition members of the Civil Service Act, raised an unlimited number of deputy officers, joined the team and commissioned Mr Hladík to lead the ministry, so I believe he will have more time to devote himself to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Madame. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, yet - does the Member wish to supplement?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u22	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice-President, I haven't said when to enlist. [[Yes.]] So I would have three dates here. Today as the third point of this meeting, as the second date of Wednesday as the second point of the meeting and the last Friday after discussing third readings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u23	Friday after discussing all the other readings? Third reading. Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr Marek Novák, will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include a completely non-conflict, non-political point regarding health - as in my case - which, of course, is intersecting several departments, of course, the health department, but also the education department, and of course, because we must have experts everywhere, as well as the Ministry of Finance. This is a thing that - you would say: It certainly does not endanger life, and you would be right. This is the availability of medical and medical examinations in the field such as speech, clinical psychology, child psychology and so on. You might argue that, at the moment, when we are dealing with more important things, this is not important. Yes, it is, please. These are especially our children in schools where we lack the availability of this care. Waiting time - even for things where diagnosis is already very serious, such as serious dysphasia, for your idea: these are children who are not affected by the intellect, but develop to another, very lapidally speaking, at a different pace of the body and at a different pace of spirituality, that means that these children need very intensive care of speech, sometimes psychology, and sometimes lately diagnosed; The case of a nine - year - old child started to wear bad grades from school, so it is demotivated, and it turns out that this is really a dysphasia - and the ordering time is please ten months. In the meantime, the kid's gonna be in another class or he's gonna fail if it's the old-fashioned way. This means that there is so much damage done, that then of course the repair is very difficult. It's really, as you can see, completely political. Kids, kids don't care if we're here or anyone else. They're wondering if Princess Sofie will be at six or seven o'clock and nothing else. It affects several ministers. This time, they cannot say that only our Minister, but indeed the Minister of Education, will say that the Minister of Finance, because that is where the experts must be paid. We don't have that many, and we certainly have to do everything we can to get them to these kids, after consulting, possibly improving this issue, because ten months of ordering time is just unnecessary after that. The child loses motivation, the parents don't know what to do, the teachers haven't been able to wait that long with some kind of protection, let's say in terms of evaluation. It's just that the situation is very bad. I believe that much of this is blamed for the lack of communication and policy or for politicizing this situation, which really does not have anything to do with politics at the moment, because it is the health of our children. This child, whom we do not provide in time, gets bad grades, does not like to go to school, and from this it is reflected. His idea that he should continue to study or choose a discipline that is in some way challenging is odd because he will seek the easiest way to go through it, unfortunately he will remain unsolved. So I would like to place this as the first point. Today, we just need to include in order to discuss it so that all the experts can continue to comment on it, because it is at least burdening these three departments, the two most - health and education, and unfortunately the help is not yet there, and the terrain itself does not solve it, as we can see or cannot solve it. We'll see when we talk about it. Thank you very much and I hope that we all care that our children have the best care in all directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Madame. I'm just gonna make sure that the name of that point is the availability of medical and medical care, as you mentioned in the application. [[Member Adámková: Yes.]] That's right. Are you suggesting we put him somewhere?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u26	I already said I'd like to make the first point today. If this is not possible, Friday after the third reading as point 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u27	Yes, Friday after the third reading, item 2. Thank you, Madame. Mr Marek Novák is now signed in and Mr Kamil Farhan will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am now very concerned about the current situation at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely the section on family policy and social services. Today we have the second week of January and we still have no decision as to when the subsidy procedure for social services will be drawn up. The information is really so alarming that it is appropriate to talk about the unprecedented failure of the Service Authority and the collapse of the Ministry's major agendas. Systemization has been carried out, which has put almost all subsidies to the family policy and social services section at risk. The system also created an extremely corrupt environment. Systemization is so transparent and purposeful that it remains reasonable that something like this could have gone through the government at all. Currently, the systemization has really caused the collapse of funding for over-regional social services, the collapse of funding for children's groups, the collapse of funding for the exercise of the social protection agenda for children, the performance of social work and so on and so on. In December last year, the Social Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which was brought to the attention of trade unions on all risks and unfair conduct, adopted a resolution proposed by my colleague, Jana Hanzlíková, in which this committee calls for the systemisation to be suspended by 30. 6. 2023. This committee also ordered the Ministry to submit analyses, studies and analyses on the basis of which this systemization was designed and which clearly resulted from the alleged contribution made to the committee, namely increasing efficiency, optimization of the process, etc. I am asking, and I will ask, what is the reason why you ignored the Social Committee resolution at the Ministry? I'm sorry I don't have the Minister here, and I'll be happy to put this point in place so the Minister will inform us on that point. Problem is, there's no analysis. There are no analyses to make it clear that the systemization is meaningful and has a purpose. Unfortunately, the current Headmistress even knowingly misled the committee that an independent audit had been carried out which recommended this systemization. No, it wasn't. To bring it all closer. Different grant titles implemented under various legislations, which previously were in several departments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, were transferred to the only new department - in my opinion completely unnecessary - department 26. The family policy section was the only section at the Ministry literally massacred by personnel. Teams of workers who controlled their agenda on a professional level were torn apart. Instead, it was literally blinded by a department where no one knows what, how, when and why to do it. The original department 22, which implemented social services subsidies, was destroyed for good. All he had left was a number and a few people. In all of this, a new two runs around the Republic in the form of the head of the social services concept department and the head of directors, and he is vocalizing what will be cancelled. For example, such a programme of over-regional social services that a revolutionary system change is being prepared to finance social services, a revolutionary amendment to the Social Services Act, a revolutionary social work law and a revolutionary long-term care law. In fact, how do social services that care about the social needs respond to this? They are listed in absolute uncertainty, and today they are not even sure whether they will even tighten their funding, because the state is currently totally shutting them down. In fact, it would be appropriate - and I believe that the Minister will answer us at that point, if he does not answer, I may answer myself - but this year the payment of operating subsidies to over-regional and national social services will be completely fatally delayed. If the subsidy is paid in May for 2023, I repeat, in May, it will be a miracle. It will be delayed due to the inactivity of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Not to mention the cardinal shame that the Ministry has completely failed to implement its own grant title - and I stress that this is the first time since 2007, for the first time since 2007 - do we even know what organizations are at risk? Does the Minister of Labour even know? Does he even know how many employees, how many social service users are disrupting their lives today, and the state is throwing them into existential insecurity, plus at this difficult time? More questions for the Minister. Do you actually know how many organizations you have in the programme of over-regional and national services, how many people work there, and especially how many users of these services are needed? How much is in the national budget for 2023 intended for this programme? What is the proportion of non-profit organisations in the programme of over-regional and national services? Do you actually know how many children's groups there are, and how many single parents and families are going to have existential problems because children's groups aren't going to get funding in time, they're going to disappear, and these people are not going to have children where they're going to put them? They won't. I don't think I'm gonna get answers to these questions right now, but I actually know how to answer them myself, and I'm happy to answer them to you. There are 110 organisations in the programme of over-regional social services, which employ 10,000 people. These 10,000 people care for 50,000 of the needy social service users. Fifty thousand people who have now been completely abandoned by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. What about you? You leave them on the pavement today. For 2023 CZK 1.7 billion is reserved in the state budget to finance over-regional and national social services. This programme has so-called its own line in the state budget, which means that it does not withdraw funds from the regions and their social services network, which apparently some politicians still haven't taken the district format. Non-profit organisations account for 90 per cent of this programme, 5 per cent of the contribution organisations of local authorities. The remaining five percent are represented by commercial legal forms. You are currently fighting these five percent in the Ministry, but another 95 percent is affected by this. Children's groups are currently 1,500, with 20,000 children in them, so about the same number of families will soon find themselves in a crisis situation due to the lack of management of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and the possibility of such perversions that are happening now. I am not at all talking about what would happen in the absence of a subsidy to carry out the social-law protection agenda, because there are already specific lives of vulnerable children. [[15.50 hours]] I have a feeling that the Minister has not yet realized the extent of his responsibility as a member of the government and of the minister responsible for the entrusted department, that he does not realize how important the department is and what his bad decisions may be or what the social impact of his inaction may be. I therefore ask for the inclusion of the Information of the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs in the paralysis of the Ministry caused by the Social Committee not recommended by the systemization. I'm asking for the first point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kamal Farhan is now signed in and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the point relating to sanitary services. I wanted to say that there is absolutely no doctor in this field. There are currently seven doctors at the head of regional health care stations, the remaining seven are non-medical. Due to incompetence of management and low pay assessment, the remaining doctors are gradually leaving and in the future the system will be completely inadequately staffed. The promised financial advantage has vanished and the strengthening of the stations has become redundancies. I do not understand how, in this situation, the government, as one of its measures, can insist that it reduces the capacity of public health authorities, that is, sanitary stations. For your information, she's crossed out 134 places at the health station this year. I don't even understand the Ministry of Health's communication towards health stations. For years, to be correct, this institution has been on the verge of political concern, which has come back to us in the pandemic. Hygienes weren't able to cope with the plague. The fight against pandemics is not over yet, and the government has once again decided to let go of blood hygiene. It's a very thoughtless decision that can take revenge. The absurdity of this decision is provided by the fact that dozens of employees will be released by the government following the fact that it has recruited dozens of unnecessary officials, such as the Office of the Government and for three newly virtually established ministries. [[Does it affect you?]] This destruction of sanitary services is not enough for the Ministry of Health, and within this winding-up process it set off for another run. The Ministry has written to all health services that five of them will end up in a slight surplus and that they will take this money away and redistribute it. Again, there is the incompetence of the Ministry in the fact that it has been said at the sanitary stations' meetings, and I quote: "Unused funds will be able to be used in the following period if they are able to save them." In this we see that the entries, which is in the minutes of the meeting of these stations at the Ministry, do not apply. As Petr Fiala's government has decided to systematically liquidate the sanitation service, I propose the inclusion of a new point, which is called the Distribution of the Hygiene Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u31	Would you like to place him somewhere, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u32	I would like to include him in the programme, of course, preferably as the last point after the points already included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Juchelka is now signed in and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be quite brief, however, on the subject that Mr Marek Novák had here before me. I will just read at the beginning of the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of 7 December: "After the justification of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs Zdislava Odstrčilová, State Secretary Ingrid Štegmannová and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy I. disagrees with the submitted MPSV systemisation, stating that no rational justification has been given for assessing the current performance of the agenda and the need to move them, including economic evaluation and impact on the state budget; II. asks the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to postpone the MPSV systemization until 1. 7. 2023, and the precise wording justified in writing and sent to the Committee on Social Policy, by 1. 2. the following points: 1. precise justification for the systemisation to occur, [[2.]] assessment of the current performance of the agenda, [[3.]] the economic impact on the State budget; and 4. what will be the expected impact on civil servants and the overall operation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs." Of course, none of these points have been met. The first of the quite obvious reasons, and that is that the systemisation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already begun, starting from the beginning of January, and the second, because the deadline is not for another two weeks, but I can say that all Members voted for this resolution on the Committee on Social Policy, which means that not only the opposition, but also those who are from the government coalition, and asked the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to move the systemization. Why is it so important? This is because a number of people are not convinced of the proper process of grant management for a nationwide and supranational organisation, and they also suspect that there are really important and essential things to be caught in the forthcoming change of methodology - simply and simply that this whole methodology is sewn with a hot needle. The methodology is very important because benefits payments are linked to it, i.e. payments of subsidies for all nationwide and national organisations, and they do not have to survive without the subsidies being approved in due course. They are such organizations as - I don't know - the safety line, Bee, various hospices, those that are simply and simply under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, where they are redistributed within the framework of subsidies of CZK 1.7 billion. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already been told that the methodology will be only at the end of this month, so that it will extend by a few weeks of approval, since it must hang in the appropriate places for 30 days so that individual social services can be oriented and applied for the subsidies, then it will take some time to approve and process these subsidies. This means that all these transnational and nationwide social services will be given their first money perhaps at the end of April or mid-May, and that is indeed a big problem in terms of funding, because the systemization was not prepared enough, the entire so-called Section II was demolished, there are people who are not competent not only to assess the subsidies, but also to have the right erudists to pay the subsidies simply. It threatens not to process and implement any grant title of Section II, family policy and social services in 2023, or if it is really delayed. There is also a very serious threat to the process of announcing, evaluating and allocating state subsidies for the area of social and legal protection of children, which will fall under this section of family policy and social services. I believe that the artificially created entire department 26, which is supposed to do all the grant proceedings for the whole section and it will not have either director or one manager, will simply be made up of people who in many cases absolutely cannot handle the subsidy agenda, because those experts are already slowly leaving or being scattered somewhere else, and they do not have the relevant branch of state service number one, that is, finance. [[16.00 hours]] And I have a whole bunch of different questions about it, just like my colleague does. For example, did you ask for an opinion or consultation of the Advisory Council on the Civil Service Service and Deputy Minister for Civil Service to express such a major change in order, for example, to withdraw the proposal, as requested by the Committee on Social Policy, to systemize the MPSV? Are the various analyses submitted and the documentation on which the MPSV has decided so relevant? According to our information, of course they're not. And I have a feeling that just and simply more and more of the MPSV leadership, and we see it on individual agendas, we're already saying it from the Labor Office and so on, simply and simply not with the MPSV agenda itself, and it really tramples one agenda after another. Labor offices are upset, as my colleague Pastuchová said. At this point, the payment of benefits for social services in A's and B's organizations is at risk, that is, for those nationwide and nationally active, that is 1.7 billion. And we could go on like this, and I feel like, and I think that just and simply, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs deserves to have somebody finally paid attention to it and someone finally started running it. So I'm suggesting another point, and that's after the fixed points as point 2, and that's the risk of funding social services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Mašek, I will read the apologies. Jiří slavík apologizes from 16.15 to 21.00 for work reasons and Minister Jan Lipavský from 15.30 for work reasons. Mr Mašek will now appear and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a discussion of the critical lack of practitioners for adults, practitioners for children and dentists and the associated collapse of emergency services in the Czech Republic. It's a very serious subject. We have experienced this in all regions, in all districts, in all municipalities, at the end of last year, and the situation is basically still going on. The emergency room has been overloaded roughly twice over the last flight. Of course, it was the confluence of the three diseases that occurred here. It's the flu, it's a dying covid, and it's MS virosis in small children. And at this time, the symptoms that all these three diseases have the same, that is, high temperatures, headaches and so on, were not given medications, so that mothers had nothing to give them, could not give them antipyretics, could not give them painkillers, and advice from experts, leading experts, so as not to burden the ER, were the very ones: first, flood the children properly at home, try to give them antipyretics and use wraps to knock down temperatures and only then come to emergency ambulances. But it's not that simple. When you put yourself in the situation of a mother who doesn't get the antipyretics, she does wraps at home, and experts advise them to come back at the moment when it doesn't lead to better results, when the child is apathetic, it's soulful and doesn't accept fluids, so then when they come to the ER, and they wait five hours in that ER, the family experience is just trivial. The children's wards, the hospital's wards, were also filled. We were lucky, unlike Germany, that MS virosis in our children was not so strong, but they were almost exhausted there. And it's the connection between the lack of pediatricians, the lack of adult doctors to participate in the emergency ERs, the work in emergency ambulances - and it's not about money anymore - that's what makes the care go away. Specifically in the Liberec Region, I suspect in Semily, in Tanvald, in Hrádek nad Nisou since 1 January there are no emergency rooms. It's no substitute. Those people are told to go to another county town. And, of course, the recipes are for that. During our reign, we have promoted the construction of 81 urgent revenues, which are already being worked on today, which are being built, which are being financed from Europe. And that's where the plan was to deal with this, including the emergency room. It seems to me that the current government has, in its own way, resigned, and if not and there is a plan, Minister Válek has spoken about the fact that he has dealt with the Governor of Kuba and that they are looking for a common solution. They seek this solution because, in fact, the obligation to establish an emergency by law and to finance it is imposed on the regions. Those regions even have enough money because of their budgetary tax determination. But today it's not about whether you give doctors 500 crowns, 700 or 1,000 or more per hour, but it's about the capacity and will of doctors in this system to serve, because on an overloaded ER, where you may have double your patients over the past years, you can make it easier to make a mistake, underestimate something, and it can take revenge in your professional life. So I would like to ask and include this point, which concerns the collapse of emergency rooms and their solutions, as the second point of today's negotiations, and I would like to call on Minister Válek to calm Czech citizens, to say what the solution is, along with Mr Kuba, as it has anonced, as well as with the working group, which he likes to determine on health problems. So, as the second item in today's meeting, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u37	Thank you, too. Mr Nacher will now appear and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u38	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming here and standing before you with a request for the inclusion of a point that I called in the application Government Information on measures to combat the spread of misinformation. We are at the club today, and we have also presented it at a press conference, we have defined some six basic blocks of topics that we would like the government to discuss with us, with the opposition and through the Chamber of Deputies with the public, whether it be budget and taxes, lack of medicine, about which colleagues, social issues, energy crises, drawing money from the European Union, and precisely the fight against misinformation, which, under certain circumstances, may fall into censorship, as I have repeatedly called it in my interventions, which I had for the Prime Minister of this government. That's six basic blocks of topics that deal with the public that touch them. If you look not only at social networks, but also at the emails that we use as legislators, it really bothers them, it affects them. One day it affects their wallet, one day if they get drugs for their children, another time, how long they wait for some welfare, and another time, if someone accidentally doesn't erase their contribution or get a sticker or something else happens. And I think that at least in some moments, the government should listen to the opposition and place some of the points that my colleagues and I are trying to place here, because they are really topics that are up to date and that you, too, have to perceive that people are coming to you on the e-mail, that people are asking you that when someone meets you, they're trying to get to know you about these things that we're trying to include here today. And so I assume as my colleague Radek Vondráček, so we want to talk about the topic that I have been opening here consistently since the beginning of last year. [[16.10 hours]] It would be fair for the government to come before the Chamber of Deputies to say how it has its actions to combat misinformation. Where would she like to direct the money to non-profit organizations in this matter? How will he choose them? Who's gonna pick them? Why $50 million, why not more, why not less? Why will the media be provided with resources, who will choose the media? Based on what? How much money is going to be sent to them? How will this be evaluated, how will the efficiency or sustainability be evaluated? What's the deputy's role? What's the role of the KRIT, the Home Office Authority? Where information is penetrating on the outside, how to combat misinformation, how certain narratives work, how to explain in the media, when there may be some information about migration, how to explain it and so on? Those are pretty dangerous, dangerous things for me. The law on the fight against misinformation is under way. I think that these are important things where there should be a consensus between the coalition and the opposition, or the opposition that wants to cooperate with the government, communicate and see where the government is heading, where the target point is. Because don't be mad at me, if it goes on like this, it really threatens to fall into the censoring of individual opinions. Now we're talking about this being a reaction to the war in Ukraine. That's for now, but we all know that if there's a system set up here, there's a regime, then there'll be other topics going on. I'm sure I think he's asking for it, like covid. I read the interview here today, it's a coincidence, Mr Prymula says: "Covid seems to have originated in Chinese-American research," says Mr Prymula, who, I assume, had been perceived as an expert and had confidence, actually I would say, the Chamber of Deputies across. Yeah, but those are some of the things that sounded here a year ago, two years ago, and they were considered misinformation. In other words, who will determine it in real time? I read somewhere that there's a new term, that it's the truth that's evolved. But who's going to determine the truth that has evolved, which at one point is disinformation, and in a year it will prove true, because in the meantime, a lot of things will happen? Someone can be deleted, someone can be covered, someone can even be kicked out of work because of some opinion somewhere, someone can lose the election because of it, someone can win them because of it. In other words, for me, this issue is very important. You know I've been intersecting the Prime Minister on this one, that was the oral, then the written intersitation. I'm glad that he here on the microphone said that the fight against misinformation cannot be led by censorship, whatever form it is. I would like us to continue this debate here and dispel any concern that censorship might threaten here, even if that's not what it's called. So that's why we should talk about this here. It's also in the interest of the government, because if we don't talk about it, it means something is bubbling under the surface, no one knows much about it, and at that point, of course, real misinformation about what the government doesn't really want to do can arise. It's in your own interest to show what you're preparing here, defend it, debate it, debate it with the opposition and point it somewhere. In case you don't want to talk about it, then you can't be surprised that there's a lot of information leaking into the media. I suppose where the information goes to the media, they probably won't get the funds because they can publish things the government doesn't like. But then you can't blame the leaks, and you can't blame the conclusions that will happen from the leaks. In other words, I'm going to ask you this for this reason because I think and still believe that no one wants to censor here that we all care about freedom of speech, even though maybe someone can say their opinions in an inappropriate way, or his opinions may be considered stupid. But just freedom of speech in this is divisible, and we already have laws for spoken lies or threatening information today. It's already possible to use here today, and the point is to do it, to use the current paragraphs, whether it's slander, or spread the alarm message, or other options we have. So I'm kind of wondering what the added value of the possible new legislation is, for example. So I'm going to ask you to support this point. Once again - Government information on measures to combat the spread of misinformation. Today as the first point, alternatively as the first point after the third reading on Friday this week. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vondráček will now appear, Mr Hendrych will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. We don't have it rehearsed, it worked out so well with my colleague Nacher that we're coming out of each other right now. Maybe I'd still respond to Dr. Prymula's quote. I recently read this sentence on Twitter: "Do you have any new fake news, please? The old lady's already confirmed herself." So we live in a really complicated world. Ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, not pleased that I am speaking at 16.16 that several other Members have actually mentioned this issue before me. Nevertheless, I have not been able to do this for the first time, and I have also already intersected the Minister of the Interior on this matter. I am by no means the only Member who is concerned about this, and I am by no means the only representative of Czech society who is concerned about the actions of the government coalition in this area. Perhaps only thanks to really more immediate and fundamental topics this is not the media number one, but for me, especially in some long term, it is the most important topic of all. [[theme]] Indeed, the crisis information team that has been built at the Ministry of the Interior is at the heart of concern at the moment, and the legislative proposals that may have escaped or not escaped are official, not official, in which there is talk of investment in millions, where perhaps the right media 100 million, the right nonprofits 50 million are to be supported. For another 50 million, it's supposed to buy some public media space. This may be more discussed by colleague Mračková Vildumetzová. I would perhaps just draw a few specific points in my speech, a few concrete materials that have already fallen out of the so-called KRIT and which I think you should know about. I would really like us to be able to place that new point. I, Madam Vice-President, called it the Return of Government Propaganda and Censorship to the Czech Republic in my written submission, and I have proposed that it be firmly placed as the first point tomorrow. I do not want this to be included today, I would like government representatives to have the opportunity to prepare themselves on this subject, and most of all, I would like us to really start discussing this topic and to define and clearly profile each side of the five-calice, how it is built, because from some representatives, such as the ODS, one hears that they do not support it. I don't know if the STAN movement supports it. I think we should finally put some information on the table about who, how, which side is taking it and what the citizen has or might think about it. Our questions are quite simple and brief. Who and when did he decide to set up this department at the Ministry of the Interior? What's his personnel composition, the krit? How many people currently work there? Are the workers there full-time, or are they outsiders? Does the Civil Service Act apply to them or not? How were these workers chosen? Who approves their performances? How are public funds effectively spent in relation to their activities? What are all the areas they're tracking? Home policy, foreign policy? What exactly are their individual recommendations that I can show you here, which I've been studying today? How will the individual recommendations be used? [[16.20 hours]] The first embarrassment aroused material called the Radicalisation of civil and public servants, where the department writes that they should examine the moods between officials. I have intersected Minister Rakušan on this subject. I don't think his answer is worthy of the Minister, that he didn't actually answer at all, and it didn't contain any factual information. So it says here that the opinions of civil servants who are radicalizing will be examined. And I'd like to know how the investigation went? Has there been one yet? And was it some kind of poll with their knowledge, or is it some kind of surveillance? Is it in some form of secrecy, or is there some kind of correspondence or public appearance being investigated? It's been a while since this material's been released, so I'd like to know the answers to these questions. Indeed, it is extremely unfortunate that no one is concerned with the wordings. Does no one really understand and no one realize that these are extremely unfortunate wordings that seem to fall out of the standardization dictionary or from the work of the Public Awareness Office, which Minister Emanuel Moravec considered a protectorate? We also had some order from the Secretary of the Interior of 1975 on the fight against the internal enemy, and in this fight with the internal enemy, state security was deployed. We haven't reached this stage yet, but please, I don't know if it's just any young people, 30s, who don't remember the time and the language that was used at the time. Didn't anyone really read George Orwell, a 1984 novel where, as someone emailed me, it was meant to be a warning, not a guide, this novel? Of course, the completely inappropriate installation on the Ministry of Interior building by the Minister became a symbol. I really didn't think I would live to see something like this after 30 years of independent Czech Republic. The minister first fogged, and then it became clear that it was the work of this KRIT, which was the source of this idea, and for which we eventually paid CZK 150,000 out of public funds. Therefore, we are interested in how this fight against misinformation will take place and how will it be paid? Because here I found today's interview with Mr. Petr Hanousek, who is perhaps the head of the crisis information team, which states that "KRIT is part of a whole that is managed by the Office of the Government, where separate departments are created, and we are part of it," explains Petr Hanousek. So please, how many of these teams are there, where the ministries are, how many people are there? Is there a financial plan and is there a structure of all this? And now we are gradually learning this as opposition? We want to discuss these matters within the Chamber of Deputies. We consider this important, and I am therefore asking you once again to include this point. I'd like to conclude my performance, just for your information, because I don't think most of you know it, to draw attention to a few of these fats from individual materials produced by the crisis information team, or KRIT. We have a new word. It's called a narrative. Everything's hiding under the term "narrative" today. I've found -- there's a material planned coup in Germany. And when you open the material, you get to the chapter Long-term Pro-Kremel Narratives, and within these long-term pro-Kremel narratives, it says: "The information or quasi-media scene carries the fight against hybrid threats, misinformation, hate crimes, and, in selected cases, terrorism is very displeasing. Narativ, which is disseminated when commenting on similar state activities, is usually a struggle for freedom of speech and in general a fight against an unfair system. State activities are referred to as suppressing the constitutional freedoms of citizens and are compared with the pre-November era, or Nazism and fascism." I'm really offended if anyone here is going to label me when I'm fighting for freedom of speech, that I'm listed in the chapter of Procremel activity, and that I'm referred to here as a disinformation or quasimedia scene. I think freedom of speech is the foundation of freedom at all. Even with many citizens, freedom of speech and freedom as such is that they cannot distinguish it. And indeed, without freedom of speech, you can never achieve freedom as such. I have here, I have to track it down, I think a very interesting sentence for you, which really made me wonder if it's a joke, or if it's for the government's demise. I'll read it to you, it's from a material that relates to illegal migration, called Nemo. And it says: "The media have not yet paid attention to the subject, which gives space to actively mold and shape it. It cannot be expected that they would push him massively in quotation marks because of the flooding of more substantial questions, but it cannot be excluded that he will be abused by newspapers and television owned or close to the ANO movement and also by the disinformation scene." I'm asking, did the Home Secretary get a whole union to guard the ANO movement? Do you have any idea what scandalous material that is? And it's black and white and it's on the Home Office's website. So Minister Rakušan has got a union on us and he's gonna check which media is the right one? And they probably won't get the money, the 100 million, and the other one, they're gonna get the 100 million, and the total imbalance in the media space is supposed to help government propaganda. And KRIT is nothing more than to teach us what to think. KRIT, for example, writes in the material for illegal migration: "It is not easy to plant Putin in a pre-prepared narrative that Putin is responsible for war, world and domestic problems. " In other words, that's what he's trying to put everything into the narrative. And of course, Vladimir Putin really isn't responsible for all our problems. It's not Vladimir Putin's fault for Green Deal. Vladimir Putin is not really responsible for delaying all measures against expensive energy. However, there is a manual of what government politicians are supposed to say and what people are supposed to think. And if it's government employees, they're gonna start a dialogue with them so that they don't happen to be radicalized and they don't think something they shouldn't think. Doesn't that really remind you of the past? I'd like to draw some attention to the standardisation rhetoric, because she's really in on it. For example, it says here that as part of the proposal for a new legislation: "We do not do the Censorship, we merely restrict access and reach." [[Laughter and applause from the YES benches.]] The restriction will not consist of deletion of content or, for example, the deletion of the domain, but only in limiting or making access to it difficult. However, quantitative limitation of reach can also be effective from the point of view of preventing public manipulation by misinformation or war propaganda. At the same time, this will not constitute an absolute denial of the right to generate, distribute and so forth information. Only limited is the scope to which the claim itself is not. In other words, this explains that the communists did not actually perform censorship in the 1970s. They were just denying us access to certain information and restricting their authors' reach. So it's definitely not censorship. I think that the bill itself is the most important part of the mosaic, and I do not understand why it is not the subject of a wider debate on why Parliament is being surrounded. And I don't really know, and I'd like to hear it in the debate that I hope you'll admit, from the mouth of the Home Secretary, whether it was some sort of controlled leak, or whether it really was the KRIT that wasn't even able to keep it in some kind of discreet mode or how it was actually... [[A note from the diaper.]] KRIT, yes, okay. [[16.30 hours]] So I'd really like to hear from each side of the five-calice, make sure they define themselves to this material, tell us what this KRIT is supposed to serve, what it's actually part of when separate departments are supposed to be created on all ministries, at least on the force. And I really point out here that we are getting into an unprecedented situation that this Republic has not experienced since 1989. It bothers me, I will continue to discuss this subject, I will not let it go, but it is up to you, the representatives of the government coalition, whether you can stand before us here and answer our questions, or paradoxically contribute to the disinformation scene, as you say, because by keeping your mouth shut, you are denying us the points, you are only helping and contributing to these individual rumors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Hendrych is now signed in and Mrs Hanzlíková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to include item 3, item under the title Information on the results of the work group's work on the possible reduction of the number of sentenced persons in the execution of the sentence in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, I don't know the exact name, because I only registered the work of this working group or commission in the media, and I don't think the exact name was mentioned there. However, I have convinced myself that such a working group has been set up and that it exists, and I have information that it is indeed the case. In general, I am calling this issue into question, and I am glad that the government coalition intends to address this problem because it is a problem in the Czech Republic that is relatively long-term and deep. So I'm a little surprised that, apart from the recommendation, the supposed recommendation of the National Economic Council of the Government, the so-called NERV, who recommended the government coalition to try to reduce the cost of the state budget, he recommended that the number of convicts in the Czech Republic could be reduced. I thought it would be more based on a government statement in this area, where there are about six points that have been dealt with in this area since last year, but that is not relevant. I think it's important because we're in bad shape. We have twice as many prisoners as usual in Europe, and I believe that only Lithuania is in the European Union per capita, and he is counting the number of prisoners per 100 000 inhabitants to compare smaller countries with larger ones, so only Lithuania is worse off in the European Union, and then, of course, other countries belonging to the so-called Great Europe, such as the former countries of the Soviet Union and Turkey. But all civilised countries are better off than the Czech Republic. We have a 70-75% recurrence of crime. We have permanent prisons on the edge of their capacities, which can change in the foreseeable future - if there is an economic recession, usually the trend is that unfortunately, the number of convicts in prison is increasing, but I don't want to scare it, I don't want to anticipate it. What's my point? My point is that two subcommittees dealing with this issue are set up on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - the Sub-Committee on Prisons set up under the Committee on Security, and the subcommittee on socially excluded localities and the inclusion of people after the execution of the sentence set up under the Committee on Social Policy, that is to say under the Committee on Social Policy, I apologise. Neither of these committees has been informed about this activity and, in essence, this commission or working group does not yet consider these parliamentary bodies as partners. So I would like to place this point precisely in order to discuss these things that the opposition is not aware of at all, here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and to explain some of the things that have been said in the very media, and that is that, in fact, the only topic or the only element of the committee's deliberations is that, in order to reduce the number of people in the execution of the sentence, the criminal policy should be changed so that the prisoners are less. But I do not think, because I deal with this issue quite intensively and in the long term, that it is only one factor of why the Czech Republic is so badly affected by the number of persons sentenced to population, as I described a moment ago. So once again, I appeal to read the point - Information on the results of the work group's work on the possible reduction of the number of sentenced persons in prison in the Czech Republic - as the third point of today's negotiations. And I'm gonna hope he gets support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Hanzlíková will now appear, Mr Tureček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a new point, which is called the Risk of late payment of family-policy subsidies, seniors and social-legal protection of children. Basically, I follow up on this point with my two colleagues, but the situation on MPSV regarding systemization is so serious that they consider this point to be very important, and I aim above all at other subsidy titles, not directly to the subsidy for social services. For what reason? In recent days, I have been approached by a relatively large number of organisations that provide services either in the field of children's groups or in the field of family policy or in the field of socio-legal protection of children. I have to say that these organizations have had an extremely difficult year to deal with the increase in energy prices and other commodities, but also other inputs, and they are now very deeply concerned about the information from the MPSV on payment deadlines for individual subsidy titles, but also about the actual events at the MPSV in the section of family policy and social services. The information I possess is really so serious that I could talk about the breakdown of some of the fundamental agendas of the Ministry, all in connection with systemization from 1. 1. 2023. As Mr Juchelka has already mentioned here, we have actually pointed out the risks to the Deputy Minister's Social Committee since January, as well as to the Secretary-General of State. It was a meeting of the Social Committee 7. 12. and after a really long discussion, we adopted a resolution in which the committee did not agree with this systemization and asked the Minister to suspend it by six months, so that it would be time to really look at it and, if so, analyse the reasons that led to the systemization at all. Unfortunately, despite all the warnings and despite the wording of resolution 81, this systemization has been implemented, and we can now see for a few days in the new year that all the warnings have actually been valid because there is a significant threat to the payment of all subsidies. In particular, colleagues here have talked about over-regional social services, but it also concerns smaller subsidies, which may seem small in the amount of funding, but are very important because they are smaller organisations for which financial security is even more complex than for organisations that are included in the social services network. [[16.40 hours]] And, as I say, precisely on the basis of assumptions and warnings, the collapse of funding for over-regional social services, where we now know that funds will be paid perhaps sometime in May, but also that there is a risk of a collapse of funding for children's groups, of financing for the exercise of the agenda for social protection of children or social work, but also of smaller subsidies relating to activities for the benefit of the elderly and disabled. What is quite clear is that there has certainly been no increase in efficiency from the reasoning of the systemization, on the contrary - the logical link between the expert component and the payment of subsidies to the core section agenda has been destroyed and all decisions on subsidies in excess of 30 billion are accumulated under the leadership of one department director. And what is also negative, and I think the Minister will feel it in the future, is that really well-played teams of workers who managed their agenda on a professional level, and I think that it will still be negatively known mainly in methodical activities. I have to say that there was already one attempt to merge the subsidy during my work on the MPSV, and I must say that at that time the economic deputy who proposed it actually carried out all the analyses and, before the date on which this change was to be carried out, all the processes were set up, which is currently not on the MPSV at all, and that is why the departments are now set up, which do not have specific process activities set up at all and so on. And I stress that this is an agenda that pays off, as I have already said, more than 30 billion, and I stress that in recent years, essentially since 2007, when the Social Services Act came into force, early payment of subsidies has always been an absolute priority of the MPSV. It is important to know what organizations are threatened by this - those who are really dedicated to the most vulnerable target groups, children, families, seniors - and how many users this leads to existential uncertainty. It's been said here, so just for a little while. These are 20,000 children who are cared for in children's groups or 50,000 clients who are engaged in over-regional social services. For me, it is absolutely incomprehensible that the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy and the warnings of all Members present there did not lead the MPSV to reconsider the decision to implement this, I would say, until devastating systemization. Therefore, I would like to include this new point and please include it as the third point of today, or possibly as the third point of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u45	Thank you, Madame. Mr Tureček is now in office, Mr Babka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u46	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to address you with a request and a request for a new item at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and this is the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current disease situation in livestock. In Central Europe, the current disease situation is the worst in pig farming and poultry farming. Here I would like to mention a known case regarding poultry farming in Tachovsk. I'm just here to recapitulate that everyone is shielding themselves with food self-sufficiency, and here I would like to stress that in the Czech Republic approximately 2,460,000 eggs are produced each year and 2 850,000,000 eggs are consumed. This means that at the moment the Czech Republic is achieving a relatively decent percentage of self-sufficiency, we are somewhere at 86 percent self-sufficiency, and in this respect, the Czech Republic is only one step in active agricultural policy to be 100% self-sufficient in poultry farming and egg production. So unfortunately, the government is not doing the exact opposite in this regard, on the contrary, moving this self-sufficiency downward, and in the event of inactivity, the Czech Republic is threatening to reduce this percentage from 86 percent to some 50 percent, so it does the opposite, as in other areas, and in this regard. I would like to point out that the breeding in Tachov region is producing 15 percent of the total egg production, so it is only simple to reduce it from 86 to 71 percent. I would like to point out that I would like to be familiar with this information within the Chamber of Deputies as well as with the fact that the government intends to address these compensations, because according to information from the media available, only the costs of one poultry farming in Tachov region will require the costs of CZK 175 to 220 million. At this point in the relevant chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, only CZK 50 million is available to deal with the disease situation and to eliminate dangerous diseases, so it is clear that the government has no funds at this time. And I would also like to know in this information how he intends to deal with this deficit. Let me just remind you, when we were discussing national subsidies, we strongly requested an increase in the funds of the Cancer Fund. We have not been heard, nor has there been a resolution passed by the Committee on Agriculture by the votes of members of the government coalition. Although the members of the government coalition voted on the Committee on Agriculture for this resolution, they abstained from the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, so they practically voted against the increase in the funds of the Cancer Fund. And I'm just pointing out that at this point in the Cancer Fund, such an estimate, if I take it that at this point only 14 outbreaks are recorded in poultry farming in the Czech Republic, and the situation is still going to deteriorate, so practically there is a deficit of approximately CZK 300 to 400 million, so I would like the government to deal with information, present and propose solutions to cope with this disease situation in the Czech Republic. So I propose to include a point in that I would like it to be the first point in tomorrow's Chamber of Deputies meeting, which means Wednesday, and this is the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current disease situation in livestock. In case I'm not heard, I'd suggest it as the first point on Friday after the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Babka will now appear and prepare Mr Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u48	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to put here in this position a counterproposal on the proposal of my colleague Jakob, who was the first one on the agenda of this meeting, and that is... This concerns the press number 263, the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, and my proposal - counterproposal - is to exclude this press from the agenda of this meeting. [[16.50 hours]] This amendment is presented as a government coalition that merely changes the election of the members of the Council and involves both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. I have already mentioned here at the first reading of this amendment that I think it is not motivated by anything other than the efforts of the current government coalition to promote its man as the future CEO of Czech Television. What is striking in the eye is the process of receiving and timing, which five-wheelers are trying to enforce this amendment to the Czech Television Act and to the Czech Radio. bohužel, the submitted amendment to Czech Television and Czech Radio is such a purely political act. Its only and obvious aim is to dominate democratically elected control bodies of both public media in order to immediately deploy candidates preferred or associated with the government coalition. From my point of view, this is an unprecedented power step, and I am saying this precisely because of the development of the amendment and how its enforcement is to force even in the light of earlier developments, for a five-calice unsuccessful or less or more successful elections to media councils. The aim of this law is only the fastest possible political control of public media and the desire to control two of the strongest media houses in the Czech Republic. The law does not address the most important question, namely the financing of Czech Radio and Czech Television, or, for example, the definition of a radio or television receiver or the definition of a taxpayer and so on. As I called it at first reading, I call this law "the Act on the election of the Director General in the spring of 2023" precisely because the election of the Director-General falls exclusively within the competence of the Council of Czech Television and its composition is the only and decisive factor in which the aforementioned appointment of the new Director-General can be achieved or prevented. That is precisely why, according to President Jakob's proposal, we will be here at second reading as the first item in this meeting to discuss the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. The government majority is not sure of a sufficient number of votes in the current Czech Television Council, even after the June election last year, when it elected six new members there, so it decided to change the composition of the board systemically. Just to remind you, the mandate of the current CEO of Czech Television, Petr Dvořák, will end in September 2023, which is this September, and the election of his successor should take place sometime now in the spring or summer of this year. I'm going to mention here, and I mentioned here at the first reading why the new novel is so striking, why we're in such a hurry to accept it, it's just the number of councillors that are newly introducing it. At present, two thirds of the councillors, ten out of fifteen, must raise their hand for the new CEO. The new law or the new amendment that is tabled here is due to go to second reading today, the total number of councillors increases to eighteen, but the two-thirds vote for the election of the new CEO will be abolished and only the majority will be introduced, i.e. only ten of the eighteen councillors will be needed to choose the new CEO. And let me remind you that in the original novel, which you didn't finally send here, you wanted to elect all 15 new councillors from the bottom. And in the law that you did not finally send here, you tightened the terms from two thirds to even eleven of the fifteen, so that the purpose of this law is clearly seen here. Colleagues, colleagues from government parties, if you claim that the enforcement of this law is not motivated by your efforts to control Czech TV, let us postpone its discussion for the time when the new CEO of Czech Television will be elected, i.e. new management will take place. And I would also like to point out that you didn't get the original effectiveness plan from 1 anyway. 1. 2023. That is why I propose, because we do not know how you want to deal with this matter, so I suggest that this amendment be removed from the agenda, so that the shadow of doubt that is now over it disappears. So once again, Madam President, I am giving the counter-proposal to President Jakob to exclude the press 263, the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio from the agenda of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Brabec will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, honourable members of the government, allow me to wish you well, because it is my first performance this year, because however different our views are on various things here are, and sometimes incredibly different, so I think that this desire for solid body boxes and, in the context of the rest of the mental balance, certainly applies to all of us. I'm going to mention a point here again, and I'm going to introduce it to him, it's a point of the situation at the Ministry of the Environment, which I don't think you'll be surprised that I'm going to do. And I don't think it's gonna surprise you after we've all been able to read the sequel to the story from the Ministry of the Environment, because I'm gonna follow up on that nice word of narrative. If you look in the dictionary of foreign words, the narrative that my honourable colleague Radek Vondráček spoke of here also means, among other things, that there are different ways to put things. And that's exactly the version that's happening at the Ministry of the Environment right now. I was here at one of the last meetings last year, and I began to wonder what, as I discovered, also struck President Zeman, and he didn't like it, we have the same opinion that before Mr. Petr Hladík became Deputy Minister or Minister, now the new Deputy Minister, and we will see what will happen in the future, so let's say his ad in quotation marks or a letter or a letter that went to KDU-ČSL, and the brothers and sisters were invited and invited to report to positions that will be opened at the Ministry of the Environment. For me, it was such a first warning, I wonder what's going to happen, because there's already new advisors like little dogs in there today. That wasn't for me. And, of course, the Deputys are increasing. And now, of course, the story goes on, because you know, and you've certainly read President Zeman's reasoning, why he chose not to name Petr Hladík as Minister of the Environment. I must say that I disagree with one thing with President Zeman, and that is that I do not think that the Minister's nominee must necessarily have any technical articles, because it is probably not something that the Minister should make a good or a bad minister, or should not make a fundamental decision about it. But what I'm sure I agree about is that, at least according to the information that's available in the media, and there's a whole number of them, so that the Taxis case, the case of buying apartments in Brno, continues. And there, although Mr. Deputy Hladík said or originally said he wasn't a suspect, that he was only a witness, it turned out that he wasn't, and he admitted it in his last interview. In addition, a new matter that you may have also read about a relationship with an entrepreneur and some possible conflict of interest with an entrepreneur who was selling land to the city of Brno, and where Mr. existing therefore or the new Deputy Minister, Mr. Hladík, bought a house from him. [[17,00 hours]] These are things that, of course, may not be illegal. And again, I'm gonna be the last or I'm the last one who wouldn't honor the presumption of innocence and who would say it's given, because it's really a matter of how the police are gonna deal with it, but it's the things that, when President Jurečka here talked about that he has no doubt, he talked about that there are things that are not only illegal, but are also fair or unfair. Well, I don't know if this is all fair, but in any case, we have a situation at the Ministry of the Environment, which, in my opinion, is definitely not good for the Ministry, when there is a deputy there today, who has - and boasts - the competence of the Minister, which is basically the competence of the Minister, cannot only come here to the House, that is, in the House plenary, but, of course, he can go to committees, he will go to the government, and there are still doubts that I say again, I do not have a system of "one lady has spoken" but I think we can all read them. So I wonder what the proposing party is saying in this case, ideally President KDU-ČSL and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and still Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka, officially saying, that is, if he really has no doubts, because from the information available to the rest of us, it seems that the doubts may take. And I take it he doesn't have any doubts if he made the proposal. I think today there is a notion from the perspective of KDU-ČSL that they have actually matured on President Zeman, because they have now made a deputy with the powers of the Minister, and they will wait for a new president or president to believe that you will be treated differently. We'll see, of course, that's the thing that's going to happen in a few months, or a few weeks, but really, then in a few months, we'll see how they behave. But what I really don't like is the double standard... Patrik Nacher isn't here. He is now more of a double kilometer, because if we have heard or seen great pressure on my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová about her position as Vice-President of the House for her husband's knowledge of a businessman who was involved in a case, I would point out that her husband knew each other, so here we have a situation where the newly appointed deputy and future minister are likely to be, because this does not change from the point of view of the nominees, i.e. one of the key government parties, she has no doubt that even the Deputy Minister himself admits that he is being investigated and was in two interrogations within the Police of the Czech Republic in this case. And I'm not even talking about the other case that can also lead to some reasoning. So I would like to know why, in this case, when we have heard repeatedly here that the new government coalition will deal with these things completely transparently and without any problems, why is it acting in my opinion in this case, and I think not only in my opinion but also in other opinions quite differently than it promised. Finally, it is also an interesting first effect, why I understand why the government coalition insisted on the new service law, because the approved amendment to the Service Act enabled the Minister to appoint a new deputy, because if this amendment were not, of course the Deputys were already political there, the seats were occupied, so that one of the political vice-president would have to stop so that the new nominee could possibly take his place. That's how the place was created. And I'm saying again, we're not talking about the fact that we've heard a lot about savings here, but in the finals, we're going to see that there may be a little bit less of these deputys, but the other sub-offices just fell into the position of senior directors of the sections, so obviously there's going to be a lot more in the finals of those high positions than there were. But that's just another subject. I am particularly interested in the personnel situation here and whether President Jurečka will really give the candidate for it, and he is convinced that he will put his hand in the fire for it. It is, of course, the political responsibility of the KDU-ČSL, and it is the political responsibility of Prime Minister Fiala, who brought this nomination to the President, and the President rejected it. And I believe that the information that she would reject her might have been known and probably known to a circle of people earlier. So for me, this is a classic example of a double standard completely denying all the talk about how key people will be chosen transparently. And of course, after Stan's affairs, it's like the water seems to have shut down, and it really seems like the standards are moving to a completely different place. So I would repeat, that point would be called the Situation at the Ministry of the Environment, and I would like it to be included, although I believe that even if I put it on yesterday afternoon, it will have the same effect, but I will suggest that it be the second point after the already fixed points today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please another duly logged in or registered, and this is Mrs. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. And please prepare Mr. Milan Brázdil. Thank you and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u52	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to place a point on the agenda today, for tomorrow as the first item on Wednesday, called the Crisis Information Team. Radek Vondráček and Patrik Nacher have said a lot about some of these things, but I have to say that we have had a crisis information team here for almost six months and we have learned a little bit more about this information on the Security Committee, where there were only two members of the opposition, because we were told two dates, and when we said that we were all going to be present for that one term, the other was determined where only two opposition Members were present. The truth is that Mr. Petr Hanousek came to the KRIT Security Committee and introduced KRIT and the crisis information team to us in general, but I think whoever is responsible is the Home Secretary who should be confessing to the fact that we have a crisis information team like this at the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to remind you that at the Ministry of the Interior, we have a center of hybrid threats that can deal with a number of things. When I asked Mr. Petr Hanousek how he was chosen to lead the crisis information team, if he was under the service law, if a transparent tender was made for this, along with other colleagues who are with him today on this team, the answer was that he did not pass any selection procedure, he was not under the service law. This means that we practically don't know what qualification he is and what kind of person he is, how to get to the head of the KRIT. [[17.10 hours]] But what we've learned is that KRIT has four pillars. Many have already been said here - preventing social polarization, preventing the emergence and spread of misinformation, and this is also accompanied by a law on misinformation, which is constantly being discussed. There is talk that a working group will be formed or that a working group is already working at the Ministry of the Interior, but none of the opposition has ever been invited to any working group. We learned some of the names that worked on the proposal, and the proposal is already on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. And do you know how he got there? Well, he got there by asking for it from a citizen under Law 106. Otherwise, we wouldn't know what version of the Disinformation Act, even in the working version, is. I must say that I was in complete amazement and shock when I learned that the crisis information team would get CZK 50 million to buy media space, online, public space, billboards, Facebook, Instagram and so on. Based on this information, I asked if all the members of the Security Committee can receive detailed information on how the criteria for selecting the media space, when we received a table where we see spots, videos, both on Facebook, on Instagram and so on, will be invested in 50 million crowns. Whoever decides what the content will be, it will be a crisis information team. What was very interesting is that when we recently decided here that data boxes and their mandatory establishment by the Ministry of the Interior would be abolished for individuals, and when I asked Mr Hanousek if this was also suggested to the Minister of the Interior, it was said that yes, that even from their side the communication was to go this way and to take that step. So you can see that we have a crisis information team here that we need to have detailed information about. Since I see here - now I can't see - the Minister of Health, although I have written, Mr Vice-President, that I will only propose one point, so at this point I would like to propose a second point, even if it doesn't belong to me, and I have experts, paramedics, and paramedics in my MP's club. But at this point, I would like to speak to you as a little son's mother and with what is happening in the health sector, and if anyone in the government coalition is aware of the seriousness of the situation at all. When we were supposed to approve here in August, or last year that we were going to take the health insurance of 14 billion, I went to Radiožurnal, where I was grilled for why we didn't agree that the coalition wanted to take 14 billion from the health insurance. It was August. I argued that this was a very bad step. And already in August, and you can look it up, I informed and pointed out that there is no Nurofen for children in pharmacies. No one responded. I just want to tell you all that if you have kids, if you have grandkids and you get into a situation - I'd like to tell you that a few weeks ago I was looking for Laryngitis cones. If the child doesn't take this suppository in sufficient time at night, he's really in danger of life. It's awful if you go around a few dozen pharmacies that tell you that these cones don't have for children. I believe that the Minister of Health, who is here today, is with us, so now, at this point, because he's responsible, he's the Minister of Health, no one else is in charge, that now that he's communicating, he's looking for drugs not only for children, but also for adults. When I turn on the news and the news tells me that if the baby has a fever, and I don't have Nurofen, or any other medications that I have to do cold tiles, I think it's a very sad story if that's what the public media tells us to do. I think this situation is really critical and it is a huge failure of the Minister of Health. When I was looking for the cones, we had a pharmacy near the Chamber of Deputies, and I came to the pharmacy, and there was a kid sitting there, and he could have been three or four years old. My mom told me that because she doesn't have a car, that she's been going around with a kid for several pharmacies, and she's looking for antibiotics for him. The kid didn't rule slowly, he sat there in the fevers, coughing. She was so happy they had the antibiotics in this pharmacy. And what struck me was that she paid 500 crowns for them at the time. I can tell you that I've been talking to her, I've been asking her, and that's the kind of human stories people experience every day. The kid needs the cure, he needs it now. And if the Minister of Health tells you to call a hundred pharmacies - everyone doesn't have a car, someone has to drive by public transport. This is really a problem, and we've been pointing it out, pointing it out in August, pointing it out all last year. And now we know that the drugs will ever be. It's such a failure of the Minister of Health! Do you all realize that? The Minister of Health can't provide medicine for our children and our citizens, and it's a very sad story. And I will allow myself to place a point of lack of medicine and a huge failure of the Minister of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u53	Thank you. I'm writing this down real quick. And I just wanted to ask, when is the point to be included? The first one's on Wednesday, 11. 1. as the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u54	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I'm sorry. I think that point is so serious that it should be the first point of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u55	Yes, thank you, so lack of medicine and a huge failure of the Minister of Health as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you. And I ask for the contribution of the last one - which I therefore appeal to my colleagues, my colleague, that we may be voting in a moment, I will call everyone else in a moment - and this is Mr Milan Brázdil. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to wish you good health in the new year, and I know what I'm talking about. Even the subject that I am about to raise, and that is, please, Mr President, to note, that point is called Medical Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. I just want to place him, I don't want to go anywhere tight, I don't want to go anywhere in the end, I just want to put him on the agenda of the meeting, and then I'd leave it entirely to the minister or the government or the grémia to agree, if that's what the will is to discuss him. What's going on? As a paramedic, I'm just fighting for Medical Rescue. You know, and you probably watched when you were older, the movie Hanzlík... sorry, sanitka. Hanzlík drives an ambulance and so on. That was the ambulance in the diapers. Then it was transformed into districts, then it was territorial centers, some of them were already subject, it was controlled by the Ministry, and then it was an ambulance, and that's today's, regional. Fourteen times different, fourteen originals, we're not system control. And I know very well that the Minister is inclined to complete some transformation. We even talked about it, we're prepared, not just me, but the paramedics in general, who are here, Jana Pastuchová, maybe even a colleague of Mašek, who has a slightly different opinion. [[17.20 hours]] However, I suggest that we do - because there is not much left by the end of this parliamentary term. We have three years ahead of us, and if we really want to do this... The subject is probably a little hot - and you probably know it - that the abuse of the rescue service, because it is lacking in the field by doctors, the ER is canceled and so on and so on, it is simply replaced by an ambulance and in another region there is a different moral. They have it elsewhere, they are otherwise paid, otherwise equipped, otherwise dressed, otherwise guided, there's a doctor, there's an engineer, there's a... It's just 14 different times here, and the Minister realizes it. We, members of the board of directors of the VZP, know this, how incredibly increased the production data of the rescue service, perhaps most of all. So I come up with this topic. I don't want to put this anywhere tight, just on the agenda of this meeting. So I guess it could go through, so I guess it's nothing to do with anything. And if it's classified anywhere, I'd leave it to grémia or the minister or the government. Thank you for your attention and once again for your good health to all, the government, to you, colleagues and colleagues, take care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u57	Thank you. The point is called Medical Rescue. Excuse me, I put him as the last item in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u58	Medical Rescue Service of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u59	Czech Republic, yes, I have the Czech Republic here. Since all the applications were exhausted... [[Mrs Pastuch is reporting for the floor.]] I see there's still an interest in getting off. Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will sign up with one more item proposed to the program and fill in my colleague, through you, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who gave a point Failure of the Minister of Health. I would call this point an immediate solution to the lack of medicine in our pharmacies. I'll take it back from my position. My colleague was talking about children. I know that, too, because my granddaughter was sick too, and we couldn't get any medicine. But unfortunately, my health hasn't been good for the last three months, and I've been looking for antibiotics every month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u61	Yes, I'd like everyone in the room - it's the last post - if we could...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u62	I have a car, so I was a little better off than moms who don't have a car. First antibiotics - because there's probably no connection from the emergency room to pharmacies in the cities, so I got a prescription, I went to one pharmacy, an antibiotic unavailable. I went to the second pharmacy, no antibiotics available. But at the other pharmacy, they've already looked at the list of this chain and sent me to another town where I got the antibiotic. The same thing happened the second month I received other antibiotics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u63	I ask everyone in the room to keep their voice down and let the lady talk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u64	Now, on December 29th, unfortunately, I had an infection in my middle ear, and I needed necessarily antibiotic drops in my ear. It was repeated, and I got these drops in the fourth pharmacy. So I'm saying, I have a car, I wasn't feeling well, but I did run the drugstores. But I really appeal to the fact that some people don't have a car. Urban public transport, when they go to the emergency room in the evening, does not run at intervals like in Prague, especially in villages and small towns. It seems to me that we are still reading in the media that everything will be, but it is not, Minister. Now, you guys start doing something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u65	Thank you, and please, when do you wish to place this point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u66	I'd put it as the second item in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u67	Second item in today's meeting, thank you. I wonder if anyone else is applying with an amendment or an additional proposal for a programme? I don't see anyone. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order that they have been submitted. First, proposals from the Gremium. Since this has already been said, please, all Members, if there is no objection, I propose to vote on proposals from the Gremium at once. Is there no objection to that, please? It's not. There's a checkout request. Please sign in. We will therefore now vote on the proposals from the Gremium and then proceed to the vote on the individual proposals as they have been tabled. Initiating vote. We are voting at this moment - once again - on proposals from the Gremium. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number three, logged in 174, for was 172, no one opposed. Result: accepted. We will therefore now vote on the proposals that have been put forward gradually. The President Jakob was the first to speak with the proposal. It was a motion to point 4, Parliament's Press 263. But since, at the same time, Mr Ondřej Babka came up with a counterproposal, if I am not mistaken, we should first vote against Mr Babka's proposal and then Mr Jakob's proposal. So Mr. Ondřej Babka made a counter-proposal to remove the point, the House Press 263, from the agenda of the meeting. I am opening the vote on Mr Babka's counterproposal. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 177, for it was 83, against 93. Result: rejected. At this point, we can therefore vote on President Jakob's proposal, point 4, House Press 263, on Czech Television and Czech Radio, on inclusion as the first item today. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number five, the entry was 177, for it was 94, against 80. Result: accepted. Next, we will vote on Mr Jakob's item, item 1, House press 48. It is a civil and judicial order, classification today as item 2. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number six, the entry was 177, for it was 175, against it was 1. Result: accepted. There is also Mr Jakob's 67 point, House Press 165, on the residence of foreigners. The proposal is to block the first reading as the first point. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered 177, in favour of 94, versus 82, abstained 1. Result: accepted. [[17.30 hours]] Another point from Mr Jakob, point 9, House press 252, the amendment of the Constitution, is point 9 in the first reading block. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered 177, for it was 94, compared to 17, abstained 66. Accepted. Another is again from Mr Jakob, paragraph 96, House Press 65, the agreement with Kosov on the avoidance of double taxation. The proposal is for Thursday 12. 1. after the completion of written interventions as a second point. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, registered 177, for 158, versus 17. Accepted. It is also Mr Jakob's proposal, paragraph 105, House press 285, against the spread of terrorist content online. The proposal is for inclusion on Friday as point 4 in third readings. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered 177, for 159, against no one. Result: accepted. Another of the points put forward was the item by President Okamura as a new item entitled The government does not help elderly people, people with disabilities and families with children. The proposal is the first point, today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered 177, in favour of 83, against 89. Denied. Furthermore, Mr Okamura's proposal as a new point, the Fialův Government wants to raise the prices for water, sewerage, medicines, beer, books and so on, as a second point today. Initiating vote. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u68	... the classification of the point and then the possible fixed classification. It is - the point is placed and only then it is fixed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u69	Yes. So I'm going to read it again for the sake of clarity. This is a point of the Fialův Government wants to increase the prices for water, sewerage, medicines, beer, books and so on. We're voting to include him as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered 177, for 84, against 93. Result: rejected. The next item is again from President Okamura. This is a new point called the Purple Government refusing to deal with expensive food. The proposal is as a third point today, but first we will vote if we place it as a new point. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered 177, for was 82, against 94. Denied. Another point is from President Okamura as a new point called the Fialův Government wants to introduce a new totalitarian law on censorship, criminally prosecute the government with uncomfortable views and information and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. The proposal is the fourth point today. First, we're going to vote for inclusion as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 177 entered, for was 82, against 70. Result: rejected. The next proposal is again from President Okamura as a new point, the name The lack of basic medicines on the domestic market is deepening, the Fialův Government does not address this and promotes deterioration of health care. The proposal as a fifth point today and we will vote on inclusion as a new point. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered 177, for was 81, versus 92. Result: rejected. The next item is President Schillerová. This is again a new item called Budgetary Chaos of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. The interest is that it should be the first point in time today, or the first point in time tomorrow, the first point in time after the third reading. Tomorrow is the first point or after the third reading on Friday. But first, we're putting it back as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered 177, for 83, versus 94. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Havlíček's item as a new item entitled Failure of the Czech Presidency in the climate-economic field. The proposal as a first item today, we will vote a new item. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 177 entered, for was 81, against 93. Result: rejected. The next item is the new item from Mrs Dostálová, entitled Revision of the programming declaration. As a first item today, we are voting as a new item. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered 177, for was 83, against 93. Result: rejected. [[17.40 hours]] The next item is Mr Špičák's item, once again a new item entitled Overstandards in health care, interest as the first item today, we are voting as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 177 entered, for was 80, against 94. Result: rejected. The next item is Mrs Pastuchová's item, the current situation at the Labour Offices, possibly as a third point today, or Wednesday as a second point or on Friday after all third readings. But it's a new point, so we're voting for a new point first. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered 177, for was 83, versus 88. Result: rejected. The next item is Mrs Adámková's item, the availability of medical and medical care, the first point today or Friday after the third reading as item 2. But we're voting first if we're going to put it as a new point. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered 177, for 82, against 90. Result: rejected. The next item is the item by Mr Marek Novák, Information by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the paralysis of the Ministry caused by the Social Committee by unproven systematicisation. The interest is the first point after the fixed points, but it is a new point, so I am voting on a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered 177, for 82, versus 94. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Farhan's point, Decomposition of the Hygienic Service as a last item, but we are voting as a new item first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 23, logged in 177, for was 83, versus 91. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Juchelka's item, Threatening the payment of subsidies for financial and social services. Interest to be classified as fixed point number 2 after fixed points, but first we are voting as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered 177, for was 82, versus 92. Result: rejected. The next item is the item tabled by Mr Mašek, the critical lack of practitioners for children, adults and dentists and the associated collapse of medical emergency services, as a second item today, but first we will vote as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, registered 177, for 83, versus 93. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Nacher's item, Government information on measures to combat misinformation as the first item today, or the first item after the third reading on Friday. First, we're voting a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered 177, for 80, against 76. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Vondráček's item, the Return of Government Propaganda and Standardization Censorship to the Czech Republic, to be included on Wednesday 11. 1. as the first point firmly placed. We're voting a new point first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered 177, for was 82, against 94. Result: rejected. There is also Mr Hendrych's point, Information on the results of the work of the working group dealing with the possible reduction of the number of convicts, as a third point today. First, we vote for inclusion as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, signed in 176, for 82, versus 64. Result: rejected. The next item is Mrs Hanzlíková, the risk of late payment of subsidies in the field of family policy, in the field of seniors and socio-legal protection of children, today as a third point or Wednesday as a third point. Initiating vote to include as a new item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 177 entered, for 82, against 92. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Turečko's item, the situation in the agricultural resort, the first point tomorrow or the first point on Friday, or after the third reading on Friday. We vote as a new point first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, registered 177, for 82, against 92. Result: rejected. The next item is Mr Brabec's item, the situation at the Ministry of the Environment, as the second item after the points already fixed. We're voting a new point first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 177 entered, for 78, versus 91. Result: rejected The next item is Ms Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, the Crisis Information Team of the Ministry of the Interior. Interest to place on Wednesday as the first point. We vote first to include a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, registered 177, for 81, against 93. Result: rejected. [[17.50 hours]] The next item is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's item, the lack of drugs and the huge failure of the Minister of Health, to include as the first item today. But we are voting first as a new item. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 33, 177, was 80, versus 91. Result: rejected. The next item is the item presented by Mr Milan Brázdil, the Czech Health Rescue Service, to include as the last item of today's meeting, but we are voting as a new item first. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, logged in 177, for 83, versus 94. Result: rejected. And the last point here is Mrs Pastuchová, an immediate solution to the lack of medicine in our pharmacy, as the second point of our meeting. And I'll let you vote if you put it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 177, for was 81, against 92. Result: rejected. This has dealt with all the proposals put forward, and we will now vote on the whole 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as presented in writing and as modified by the approved amendments. I therefore initiate the vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 36, logged in 177, for were 94, versus 1. Result: accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights. Quiet in the hall, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, the government is fleeing. I don't blame her for being so loaded, so I wouldn't want to stay. [[An explosion of cheer in the left side of the hall.]] We have seen that my colleagues have taken major initiatives from the health sector, from the area of social, budgetary chaos, including the direction of tax policy, the energy crisis, the implications of the Presidency related to this, the package of Vice-President Karel Havlíček, the lack of EU money, why we do not have 54 billion in the budget that we could already have had there. And, of course, the censorship that this government is preparing along with the Ministry of the Interior. You've rejected every single point. These are the problems of the people of this country, this is what people are interested in. For example, I looked at the Minister of Health, no offense when my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, through you, was talking about medications, about how she saw a mother who couldn't get antibiotics with a near-dominated child, and I didn't feel like seeing the slightest involvement in the Minister. So you've rejected each single point. You don't want to talk about the problems of this country, the problems of people who write to us every day about what's bothering them. So, on behalf of the ANO movement club, I'm taking a two-hour break at the ANO club meeting. Then we'll come back. And we will discuss how we will deal with this approach of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u71	Based on this request, I'm declaring a two-hour break. Sorry, I see another one. Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u72	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, for the same reasons that Mrs Schillerová said that the proposals of our President, Mr Tomio Okamura, who is bothering our citizens, were not actually voted here, it is an increase in energy, drugs are not, food, so I am following up on the chair of the ANO parliamentary club and I am also taking a two-hour break. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-10-ps2021-050-01-000-000.u73	So... [[A silence.]] Yes. So since there was an agreement that ends today at 9:00 p.m., there's a request for a two-hour break, I'm interrupting today's meeting by 9:00 p.m. tomorrow. Thank you and have a nice evening.
