ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-005-008.u1	8. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on public auctions /house printing 361/ - first reading I will ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš again to take the floor and as the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-005-008.u2	Thank you, in a short line for the second time, for the introductory word. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present the bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on public auctions. The content of the first part of this proposal is the amendment of the trade law or its annex, given the new definition of trades in the field of public auctions. As has already been said, simpler and less administratively demanding rules will now apply to public auctions on the owner's proposal. For this reason, the implementation of these auctions is proposed to move from the existing concession scheme to a more moderate trade-related scheme under the name Implementation of public auctions with the exception of compulsory auctions. Forced auctions will continue to remain under the strictest concession regime. In addition, the current trade in the conduct of voluntary auctions for movable goods under the Act on Public Auctions will be abolished, which will lose practical meaning in view of this release of the rules. The other parts of the proposal contain minor changes to the tax rules that are needed because of the new concept of public auction as a special way of concluding the contract. The amendment of the provisions of the Capital Market Business Act is proposed in relation to public securities auctions. The amendment to the cadastral law then reflects the change in terminology, instead of the concept of involuntary auction the concept of forced auction will be introduced. So much for an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-005-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will ask Mrs Ožanová again as rapporteur for first reading. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-005-008.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Ministry of Regional Development has submitted a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Public Auctions. The proposed amendment law is presented in direct connection with the proposal for a new Act on public auctions, the previous printing 360, and takes into account the changes to the legislation in question that are necessary to implement. Law No. 455/1991 Coll., on business, as amended. The amendment of the Trade Act is necessary in view of the change of concept, the greater liberalisation of public auctions on the proposal of the owner, for which simpler and less administratively demanding rules apply. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the implementation of these public auctions to be carried out under the strictest scheme in the form of a concession. The amendment therefore means the modification of existing trades. Within the concessionary trade, only forced auctions will be left. Other public auctions will be newly under the trade-related regime, both the auction of movable and immovable items. Compared to the previous situation, therefore, there will be a reduction in the requirements when a significant proportion of entrepreneurs shift from the concession scheme to a less strict trade-related regime. Another law amending this law is the Real Estate Tax Act, as amended. It is adjusted when the taxpayer is obliged to file a tax return. In addition, Law No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended. In particular, this amendment regulates the emergence of viable tax transactions. Another changing law is Law No. 256/2004 Coll., on Capital Market Business. In particular, a change in the concept of public auctions and the replacement of a central address in the central register of public auctions require a change. Paragraph 33 regulates the public auction of investment securities under the Capital Market Business Act. The last law that changes is the Land Register Act. The adaptation of the cadastral law takes into account the change in terms when a bill instead of an involuntary auction uses the concept of forced auction. According to the original Act No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, a notice was sent to the competent cadastral office about the conclusion of a contract for the execution of an involuntary auction. On the basis of this notice, it was referred to § 23 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (j) the cadastral law entered in the cadastral note. The draft law does not constitute any additional financial implications for the state budget or other public budgets. In connection with the regulation of the trade law, small administrative costs are incurred on the part of entrepreneurs, representing the time associated with the notification of the trade, estimated at approximately CZK 270 000 and on the part of the relevant trade offices in connection with the administration of the agenda of approximately CZK 120 000. As the date of entry into force of the amendment law, the date of entry into force of the new Act on public auctions, i.e. printing 360, is set as the date of entry into force of the amendment law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-005-008.u5	Thank you, Madame, for your report to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate on this point, which has not yet been declared. I am looking at the hall, not interested, so I am ending the general debate. I suppose there is no interest in the final words of the petitioner or rapporteur. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 46, 148 Members were voted in, 116 voted in, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. This has exhausted this point, namely the first reading of the House press 361, and I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur for their work. We will continue the approved agenda of the meeting, the next item is:
