ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-010-902.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 11 and 12 of the House press 371 and 372 And I'm asking if anyone is reporting for the merged debate? Yes, Mrs Štefanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-010-902.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment here on the two papers under the SPD, first on the 372 press, the insolvency law, where the House press 372 should help entrepreneurs and businesses in financial difficulties by introducing the possibility of restructuring or preventive restructuring without the company having to initiate insolvency proceedings with the resulting consequences - this usually does not go without the media's interest, not in the favorable point of view, when the media promote business failures. At present, however, the only real-estate restructuring and rebooting of a business establishment under the insolvency law is through the reorganisation institute. Now, then, on the proposal for preventive restructuring. This proposal introduces a new institute of preventive restructuring, which is much like insolvency proceedings, but with several substantial differences. The purpose of preventive restructuring is to prevent the bribe of the undertaking, so it can only be done before its bankruptcy. If the company goes bankrupt, then insolvency follows, the preventive restructuring process is voluntary for the company. In the first instance, as well as insolvency proceedings, it is brought before a regional court. Unlike insolvency, however, preventive restructuring may not always be established by the court, but only on a proposal from the parties concerned. The process shall be based on the consensus of the parties concerned and may be terminated at any time. [[20.50 hours]] A so-called restructuring register is newly established, where the instruments relating to the restructuring procedure will be published. The company has an obligation to draw up a so-called bailout project under which it will draw up a restructuring plan describing in particular the company's assets and debts, a list of the claims of both the creditors and the other creditors concerned and a description of the restructuring measures. Such a measure can basically be anything to help prevent the company's financial difficulties and its decline. As the aim of insolvency proceedings is to protect the rights of the creditor, preventive restructuring serves for the benefit of the company, i.e. the debtor. It improves its negotiating position and gives greater opportunity to avoid the bankruptcy of the company and does not affect outstanding claims. This proposed process is in line with the SPD's political programme, i.e. greater protection of debtors without restricting the rights of the creditor, so we will support both of these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-010-902.u3	Thank you, Madame. Mr Feranec is now in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-010-902.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just making a few comments on behalf of the club YES. The ANO Club supports the adoption of the law. It's a transposition. I allow myself to make such a personal remark that I have not seen the directive for a long time - or even though it is a transposition of the directive, it really has a head and a heel and it brings something positive. It has already been said that in our legal order, restructuring does not exist as a legal concept. It's a reorganization, but only within insolvency, which is too late, it's about to go bankrupt. So, in this sense, we support the adoption of this law and I think it will also bring about improvements in the protection of companies and so on. In principle, this is a code of restructuring, and I think it would be appropriate for both of these prints to be discussed by the economic committee. Then I guess I'll just sign up with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-010-902.u5	Thank you. Do I ask if anyone else is applying to the debate? It's not like that. Then I conclude the merged debate. I'm still asking for final words? [[Minister: No. Rapporteur: No.]] Not interested, yes, thank you. We'd go back to interrupted printing 371.
