ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second meeting on the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will check you out first and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, to report who is applying for a replacement card. I hereby state that Mr Karel Havlíček has been issued a replacement card number 35. At the same time, on the Olšáková Kovářová the KettnerFialová on Bureš Crkvenjaš of the Němečková, on the whole of the Opltová, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Gazdík, on the other hand, on the other Major, on the other hand, on the other handMichálek on the other hand, on the Nováková hand, on the Fridrich hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the Bašta Koten, on the other hand, on the other Foldyna, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Dvořák, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Feranec, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Klíma, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, Fischerová the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other králíček, on the other hand, on the other Lacina, on the other hand, on the Helebrant hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other handHrnčíř on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Kasal, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, Mádlová the other hand, on the Dostálová on the other hand, on the other than on the other hand, Quittová the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Kobza, on the other Kubík, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other Adamová, on the other hand, on the other Šimon, on the other Heller, on the other hand, Pekarová the other hand, on the Hanzlíková Blaha, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the Mr Ratiborský, full day on a foreign trip, Mrs Richterová, from 13 to 14.15, on a work-related basis, Mr Růžička, on a whole day on a health-related basis. - And with a replacement card, Mr. 34 Mr. Havránek. - We continue to go on: Mr Staněk all the day for business reasons, Mr Stržínek all the day for business reasons, Mr Tureček all the day for health reasons, Mrs Urbanová all the day for personal reasons, Mrs Válková all the day for work reasons, Mrs Voborská from 16 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Vondráček all the day for work reasons, Mr Vondrák all the day for foreign travel, Mr Milan Wenzl all the day for personal reasons, and Mr Ženíšek from 13 to 14 o'clock for working reasons. With the members of the government, I apologize to Minister Bek all day for working reasons, Minister Blažek all day for work reasons, Minister Dvořák all day for foreign travel reasons, Minister Hladík all day for work reasons, Minister Lipavskýý all day for foreign travel, Minister Nekula all day for working reasons, Minister Šalomoun all day for personal reasons, Minister Válek from 13 o'clock for working reasons. The meeting was adjourned on Friday 16 June following the designation of the verifiers of the meeting. We will now proceed to the 69th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I merely recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. So I'm gonna go on. And now we will vote on the entire proposal for the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. So I believe they've all arrived. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 134, for was 128, against no one. Accepted. I therefore state that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We can now proceed to the first item on the agenda, but I also ask President Benda, who here has an application with priority rights. So it doesn't work. And we're at point number
