ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u1	109. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of seven responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Ms Jana Pastuchová's interview on the lack of security clearance of Deputy Ministers at the Ministry of Health to the degree of "confidential." Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 340. The discussion of this reply was suspended in the debate on 12 January 2023. So are we continuing the debate and asking if anyone is reporting to the debate? If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I do not see Mrs Pastuchová here, or I am not asking what resolution she is proposing for this response, and this is the end of the discussion. Deputy Prime Minister for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš responded to Mr Patrik Nacher's interpellation in the case of the Ministry of Regional Development Decree No. 269/2015, which is the heat billing and 80 per cent average. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 341. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? Yes, Mr. Nacher reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I had written interpelations concerning the Ministry of Regional Development Decree No. 269/2015, which says how to settle heat within one house or one entrance. In short, it averages what these people consume, and those who have less than 80 per cent, they grow to 80 per cent of the average consumption of the house, and those who have more than 200 per cent, it drops to 200 per cent. In other words, who saves too much - I was written by people who had, like, 55, 60 percent of the diameter of the house, so they actually increase their load even though they save. When I read the decree, she had something in her time, because she actually took into account that it would be unfair, there are some apartments that are on the edge, there are some apartments that are heating up because they are in the middle. Some are under a roof that is warmed, some under a roof that is not warmed. If no one drowns, the molds will spread and the value of the house will actually decrease. [[9.10 hours]] That means I'm not criticizing the fact that there's a line. My question was whether it is not today, when as politicians we actually encourage people to save money, and they will save and save money, but if they save power, they will still pay 80 percent of the average of the house, so if something should not be done with the basic parameter to match this time and not 2015. The minister answered me. I've read that here before. The current information that came from the results of the roundtable negotiations that I received in the e-mail said that there was agreement on the roundtable that it would be good to take into account the energy performance of the building when determining the ratio between the basic and the consumer component, which the current system does not do. The specific form of limit values - that is what we are talking about - the consumer components are still part of the expert discussion. Now both experts and accountants are leaning towards a slight reduction in the lower limit value. There have been proposals for a reduction of 5 or 10 per cent, i.e. percentage points, i.e. from 80 to 75 or 70. That's how I understood it. Finally, the Minister writes to me, I would like to mention: We will try to amend the decree in a way that will change before the next heating season. So I'd like to modify the question a little bit. First of all, if it changes and in what way, second of all, why it takes so long. The call for people to save money has been here since, say, last April, May. In principle, it began with the war in Ukraine and the start of the energy crisis. We're in February 2023. I'll remind you that this isn't a change of law, but it's a decree from the Ministry of Regional Development, so all we have to do is change it. Actually, I'm reading here now -- I'm happy for it anyway, yeah -- but we're gonna try to get the new decree adopted before the next hot season. It's a little late for me, but I'd still like an answer. I know the Minister is well prepared. I think that citizens are waiting for that, too, because it is not possible to tell them to save in one sentence, and then, when they save a lot, they still pay more based on the average of the house or the entrance. So that's actually where the interpellation is headed. She's heading towards some kind of education, so people know how it's going to count in the future, how it's going to turn out, when it's going to change. I'd almost say as soon as possible, not since the next heating season. Today, when I was walking down the street, there's some minus six, minus seven degrees. The winter may be long, so I think it's up to date now, and I'm gonna ask the minister for a reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u3	Thank you. The Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u4	Madam President, I would like to respond, through Madam President, to Patrik Nacher. First of all, as regards the interpelation to Decree No. 269/2015 Sb. First of all, I must say that it was not only Mr Nacher, but, of course, at the moment when the energy crisis associated with the war in Ukraine began to fall significantly on the price of energy, and thus on heating, of course, people asked very actively whether the setting was right at the moment. It hasn't changed in a long time with that decree. I want to say that although there has been, for example, the insulation of some panel houses and others and over the years, the energy performance of buildings has actually been more careful, in fact, in the space where people live, nothing has changed significantly. She didn't really deal with the rules - we were just about the energy and confess what people wrote to me - we didn't really deal with it in the long run, people didn't care much about it because the energy was relatively inexpensive. Although the so-called energy or electricity poverty, a significant share of the energy price, especially electricity, has already been reflected in the housing price before, even if you look at the offer of rent or sales, you can suddenly see that prices vary greatly depending on the energy intensity of the building or the type of housing in question. when, in fact, even on the market, those who have lower than C, E and others - Mr Nacher sits here, I was watching - so, in fact, the rents are significantly cheaper, because people are really dealing with this. I must say that when we wanted to get into this after the expert discussion before the end of the year - and that is important to say - we were talking about whether it was enough to move the percentages. We found that a lot of people didn't really know -- and there's this awareness in place, I think even a round table, this interpellation leads to this, and thanks for -- what energy consists of, where the essential ingredient and the consumer, so there's some price that consists of heating the whole house, and then by meters and by the type of apartments from those individual places. When we tried to move only with the current percentages, how much they do, we got into rather paradoxical situations that were counterproductive in the finals. Just to tell you how it turned out. Two relatively shared and impact articles appeared in public space on the same day. One, I think, was from commercial TV Nova and the other, if I'm not mistaken, was from iDNES, when on the one hand it was written that Bartoš wanted to make people who were saving, expensive, and the second article said that Bartoš wanted to help people who were saving. That is basically the question that we were trying to address on the round table, where Mr Nacher, Members of this House, the Senate, as well as experts from the Czech Technical University, was invited, but that day - and it is legitimate - was a statement of distrust to the government, we were here in the House and we were dealing with other important questions. However, we wanted to respond before Christmas - and you asked about the time - to catch this warm season. But it was actually in the month of November, December and she changed that decree would immediately be reflected in the functioning of SVJ. The idea that sometime during Christmas, the SVJs are calling on each other to revive the way in which the billing is, and the change they're making, seems to me that it wasn't entirely realistic. But most of all, they really defined that only these percentages would change be counterproductive. I'd like to follow up on that round table. I think at least the invited participants have information from this round table. I don't want to keep reading the end of the round table. Let me put it this way in a nutshell. If we decided to go only the way of the decree, which could be done last year too, if we had good input data, it would be possible to do this relatively quickly. Why did I put it in the next heating season, even if ambition is to have it faster? We have established cooperation with ČVUT and we really need to take into account the types of buildings, the insulation. But it's not just the heating, even the panel houses that went through the heating, but they still have the original heating system settings, they actually drown almost the same. However, it's not just leaking heat out of the building. We really want to do this in such a way that it takes into account the energy intensity of houses of a certain type of housing, so that we can work with the location of apartments, so that it is not really so that someone will significantly reduce their heating, so that it will only draw from the surrounding apartments. If these guys do the same thing, we're not actually gonna solve the problem. Nor can it be seen that only those who significantly save can benefit from the system because people are sick, people are old, who, of course, can't go to some levels within the temperature set in their housing, when they would just be cold, they might get cold. There's a lot of vulnerable groups. They're sick, they're seniors, but even if you have a capart or a little kid running around all the time undressed, they're just situations where some advice doesn't really apply to people who need to be tough. That's where we have to take these things into account. [[9.20 hours]] Therefore, the intervention should be discussed professionally, work with professional data in cooperation with the Czech Technical University, and we will certainly go the way of the decree, but if the decree was not sufficient, I would still see it as a kind of hot fix, as a solution patch, and I would recommend, and this also the experts agree, to reach into the service law itself, if necessary. This decree allows for a much faster process and perhaps some corrections, which would only move with those, as Mr Nacher said through Madam President, percentage points, because talking about percentages can be misleading, percentage points can be a quick solution, but we should also grasp the energy intensity of buildings, perhaps even as a more comprehensive amendment to the law, which should also come out of the debate with the CTU. The experts said they would help with this. I think that, especially with the dynamics of building heat processing, it's not much of a political question, it's not an empirical question either. Probably each of you has some experience, it's a little different in your own, if you live in a house where there's more apartments, it's just an atypical situation. We could build it on some kind of individual feeling. I am very happy for Patrik Nacher's activity and others, and I believe that we will just be chewing through it now, and in the first months of the spring, we should have factual inputs to decide whether to go through the decree, which is a relatively quick process, and I think that we should go the same way or with ambition to make a change in the law. If we limit it only to the issue of heat billing, I think the process might not be significantly longer, although the logic of the matter is being dealt with by government, in the House, by committees, and I don't know if halfway or summer would be right to push it any faster. So the beginning in the coming months, the beginning of spring inputs, we could already actively inform consumers, housing cooperatives and citizens about this. From this they know that such an arrangement will come, they can prepare for it even in the settlement system, and at some point a decree or a law would sit down, depending on which path we choose. And I'd like to thank Mr. Nacher for raising the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u5	Thank you, Minister. Patrik Nacher is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u6	Thank you, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer and maybe just ask for the future, because people are really asking how I said it when the campaign was, so it was even more frequent questions than questions about execution, which, in relation to me and my expertise, surprised me very much. So I'd just like to ask if he could, in any way, report regularly or in any way on how this is going, or maybe make a round table here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think consumers would appreciate it, because, as I say, I don't think of it as an interpelation, but rather as an education, because these people really ask to know when it's going to change, how it's going to change, because for them, we have to simplify it. I've been writing here, there are, of course, different influences on it in relation to the insulation, taking people into account, taking into account the position of the apartment and so on. Guys, basically, in simple terms, it's a percentage, if it drops from 80 to 70, if I say it like that, they'll know that if it saves power, they'll pay 70 percent of the diameter of the entrance. I'm saying, I'm simplifying it, but this is how it needs to be perceived. So thank you once again and I will ask the Minister if he could inform the Chamber of Deputies or reorganize the round table here. I'm in favour of it being more of a decree, because if it's the law, we open up here, people's creativity starts here, and then I don't think we're gonna make it to the next heat season. So I'd encourage it to be a change of order, but of course, it's up to you to make that decision. At this point, all I care about is having that information, and not just having it, so that we can reproduce it further to the public, so that they know what they can expect. Thank you, and I'm happy from this point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u7	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond to your contribution. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u8	I'm only in the short run because there was a challenge. I think that's right. I am sorry that neither I nor Mr Nacher were able to participate in the round table, but that is the House, the House is acting, and that is probably the priority. I think that once the first results on the entry are on that expert discussion and expert discussion on the energy performance of buildings, we should make a round table. Maybe not here in the House, but yes, we'll do it with a wider public. When we were discussing heat and distance meters, there were representatives not of individual SVJs, but of large landlords or associations, which bring together the community of owners of units and others. It's very relevant to them. I was talking about the law - it is not necessary, but the important thing is, the essential thing, to distinguish the setting of the essential and the consumer component according to energy demands. And if we have this fixed, then it moves with a percentage distribution. We have to do A, we have to do B. I agree, let's do this. I would, of course, like to, and it's called wishful thinking in English, so that even those long-distance readings that we've been dealing with here, when you're actually only going to learn about the part of your consumption, but that's where the part that's shared for the house is, so you don't actually know how much you're going to pay. And I'd like to see for the future, when we're even more digital in this area, and we're going to be, so that you can actually look at it, that no, here I have three pieces, and I have to calculate it on central, but I did, these applications are, they're, they're commercially developed. Let the market develop such applications when you can actually look: this is what I drink with me, this is how it works in my total share of the house, and solve your consumption already converted into funds according to some current tariffs you are pumping, which should be step 3 after we finish this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u9	Thank you. No one is to be heard in the debate anymore. I am now asking the Member - first I will end the debate - and I will ask Mr Patrik Nacher whether he wants to propose a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies on this answer? It's not that, so I'm done discussing this interpellation. We'll open another written interview. Deputy Prime Minister for Digitization and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš responded to the interpellation of Mr Martin Kolovratník on the construction law. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 343. I see Mr Kolovratník here, so I am opening the debate and asking... Yes, the Member is interested in speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u10	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you, Madam President. I report that I am here, ready, happy to use my space and discuss the issue of building law with Minister Bartoš. For those who follow us, and for you here in the hall, I will first limit myself to a brief introduction or a brief explanation of this interpelation. Unfortunately, as the House works, as time runs here, and the interpellation was originally written in the middle of the summer, so I correctly say that we have been six months further and that some of my questions have been answered in that reply written by the Minister. But, and it'll probably come out of the debate in a little while, unfortunately, the question marks and the uncertainties of that six months have more and more new, and we'll see. I will bring them up here and tell them, and I will be happy if the Minister responds to them, and we will see what his response will be, what the explanation will be. The original interpelation in its questions was basically about two or three things, three questions. Firstly, when it is possible to expect a complete substantive amendment to the law, when the Ministry of Regional Development will inform investors, to large state investors such as Railway Administration and the Road and Motorway Directorate. So I am concerned about the transport sector, what the new construction law and requirements for these large reserved buildings will look like. And in the third time, I asked if the MMR had any analysis which would clearly justify it, clearly stated that the construction proceedings would accelerate in comparison to the original one, which is still the previous approved version of Act No. 283/2021, this is the amendment of the previous government, which therefore changes the current one. [[9.30 hours]] Like I said, I got the answer to the first question. We know that the novel in question is now ready, so it is the House press that we have already been through the first reading. I'd like to say, Minister, that you answered that information to the public investors as well. I'll remind you that it's expected from 1. 7. this year, the so-called Special Construction Authority was intended to operate specifically for dedicated transport constructions and there is probably no need to deal with whether and how it is prepared, whether it is equipped with personnel. It's February at the moment and, of course, it's your executive, executive responsibility for the flip-over to take place. But what I want to bounce away from right now is that point 3 where I asked if the MMR has some kind of analysis processed, how the situation or condition will improve or how it will accelerate. You, Minister, told me briefly that the MMR does not have such an analysis, only that you have prepared an assessment of the impact of RIA regulation in accordance with the Government's legislative rules. And now I will quote your comments at the end of the written interpelation: "It should be stressed that the primary objective of the substantive amendment is to achieve a change in the model of the construction administration and to prevent the collapse of the building procedure as a result of the destruction of the mixed public administration model. The purpose of our substantive amendment" - I shorten, shorten - "is, above all, the preservation of building offices at local level, where they decide on the knowledge of the local environment" and so on. And there's a sentence in the written interview that I absolutely can't relate to. The sentence says: "Even after the amendment, the principle of one building office, one management, one stamp, and the general acceleration of the building management will contribute to the well-prepared digitalisation of the building process. The authorisation will be issued within the time limits set by the relevant provisions of the new Construction Act.' Now, Minister, I would like to discuss this with you. First, the process of preparing that there will be no destruction. I can say here, and you will probably repeat it or confirm it, that there is a kind of agreement between the coalition and the opposition on a comprehensive amendment. I also have information that after your government colleague, Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, has entered into the process, you have set up some working groups that are therefore sucking up and trying to work with them or work with them in some way to prepare a comprehensive amendment. But then I learn - I will say informally, unofficially - not only from the players, from the groups that deal with the issue here, but unfortunately also from your coalition partners, from the Members here in the House, that the groups do not work much, or that there is no feedback from them. That something is delivered to them, but then no one knows, or sometimes people don't know if the one working group that worked the initiative worked, whether they accept it or not. So please, Minister, about the first answer, about the first information and your answer, what stage we are at, what point are the preparations at the moment, and I assume we are talking about this comprehensive amendment, if all this is not at the last minute. If we as the opposition, myself and colleague Klára Dostálová, at some point we will have a chance to meet you over this draft, let's say, concept, whatever we call it, a comprehensive amendment, and if we don't come to the conclusion that suddenly it's five, four days, three days to the end of the deadline, and that it's all going to be at the last minute. So if you have - Minister, you are the person responsible for the whole process, the manager who should set the rules of preparation. I'd be happy if you could tell me when the material for the second reading will be ready and when we'll see it. That's my first question. And the second topic I want to ask about and I want to talk about: I simply argue that the sentence that the Ministry of Regional Development has put in that official written reply to my interpelation, that is, your statement that the principle of "one building office, one proceedings, one stamp" will apply, that sentence is not true, Minister, it is false. And she's lying in two moments. If we see your idea that the so-called integration of the public authorities concerned will take place in the municipalities, in the municipalities, in the so-called oerpéčky, in the municipalities with extended scope, in addition to the reserved buildings, the transport constructions will be at the special construction office, the small civics will remain in those small municipalities, which will require some kind of information from above, let's say from above, from the oerpéček, so then I mention here - now I just mentioned in illustration - at least three or four places where the construction worker's application, whatever it is, will work. That means the sentence "one construction office" does not apply. In short, it is not valid from the logic of the matter when you divide it all and you remain within the framework of the so-called subsidiarity and the enlarged communities. And the next words in that sentence: one stamp. Once again, the principle of the matter cannot be valid when you introduce a single environmental position when, according to the information, at least which we have at the moment, you continue to remain unintegrated, you let yourself be side-worked by the stamps of hygiene, firefighters, the environment, i.e. all the public authorities concerned, which will not be integrated. And here I remind you that every separate opinion of any government body concerned, and it doesn't matter if the builder or the integrated construction office asks for it, is independently reviewed. It is a separate legal act which is independently reviewable. So those - I don't know if it's forty - a little over forty stamps in my opinion, our ideas simply remain, and then logically, the sentence cannot apply that you keep the principle of one stamp. And I would ask you, Minister, to try and defend and explain here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, through you, Mr Kolovratník, I am glad that you have also said that, at the beginning or from the time that the intervention was given, these things have shifted significantly. We as an MMR, whoever was in charge of it, I must say that there have never been any further proposals for modifications that really lead to improvement, and in particular to speed up the approval process of the construction law. You asked at the beginning, I will poke it forward, I hope that once I say 'through Madam President', because I will respond gradually - so the amendment that we are building on the recoding of the construction law of the previous government, on the very principle that it goes towards one permit, one building procedure, does not change anything, and it retains all the deadlines. Thus, if the gros problems were in the length of authorisation and obtaining an overall statement from the construction office, it remains the same. That's where the terms stay the same, the total time is the same. I have talked about this several times, for simple constructions 30, 60 days tops, for medium heavy it is 120, I don't know what number it is, and within a year for the most complex constructions, the builder should not only be allowed automatically, but he should know whether he can or can't build. It doesn't really change anything in this law. To the process of the working groups themselves, and I was talking about it, I want to say, even though Mrs Dostálová ran away from me into the leadership of the House, but I deal with her in the same way as when she was chairman of the Public Administration Committee, and so was she when she was a minister in the last parliamentary term. We have received other amendments last Friday, and we are consulting with the opposition, of course, so we have so-called - I will use the word - closed shop, we have said, here is the stop. Then we received some suggestions, say, from the group for a healthy construction law, which are people from around construction companies and the Chamber of Commerce. We've been through them, too. I don't know if they've been notified yet, but they're actually a lot of suggestions that point to the original recoded-- pure state administration. So we're still in charge of those, and we're going to have a first hearing on the committee, which will be about 11 days from now, we should provide this. Until then, of course, we will meet with you, Mr Oklešťek, who deals with this, Mrs Dostálová, with others. I don't know which Members say they don't know. You mentioned coalition partners here. Under the Ministry of Regional Development, there is actually a supervisory team of coalitions, where each has its own representatives, and I sometimes - and now there is no reservation to anyone, it is also in public space to all the partners of the Ministry, if someone turns to the Ministry or is organized by some expert group, on the last one for greater integration it took 30 people from individual ministries and others. If information doesn't reach someone, it's usually not the fault of the person who has the information at the time if it's passed on to someone who represents those entities. [[9.40 hours]] Let me give you a simple example. If you're talking to an association or a union and you provide its representatives on the platform where this thing is being dealt with, you kind of assume that if someone needs this information below, like some - represented organization in the Union - they must already receive it. So I believe that within the coalition and within the coalition, and I believe that everyone will be informed about the amendments in such a way that they will see, if not quite the final legislative proposal, the legislative proposal in the committee at the moment. And I think that even in the promise we made, which is looking for a greater degree of integration at an ORP level, so I think that's right and that's what we're holding. I'll respond to a few other things. I don't like it when something gets clean under marketing claim. I've always perceived "one office, one stamp" that it's not that there's one single office, the Supreme Building Office, but from the point of view of who's pumping the service, which in this case is a citizen who needs a building permit, or a builder or some designer, so he comes to the office and gives one filing. He doesn't have to secure or chase down the statements of the authorities concerned, he just puts it on that office and expects him to be informed at the end. So, according to the law, a builder asks at one construction office, and if he doesn't have pre-prepared or has any other comments from the authorities concerned, the office will ask for them itself. All you have to do is file one permit. If I were to return to the recodification as it was actually approved in the context of your comprehensive amendment, and I would be as you presented this, I would say that even in the proposal by Klára Dostálová or your comprehensive amendment, it was not that it was all one thing. There were firemen, there was a vet, there was a spa. From the user's point of view, the process must appear as one filing, one process, one stamp. I don't know if I'm gonna go any further on the binding opinions of the review. I don't think I'd go there. The Public Administration Committee should receive all the documents by the 20th. In the meantime, I'm offering - and I was talking about it with Vice-President Dostálová, who has just been here - that we're going to have a meeting over the proposals. I think it's going in the right direction. And if anyone has any questions at this point, I'm very happy to answer them here, as far as I know. But, of course, we can make a working meeting at the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development outside the committee's standard meeting or in a group that works under it, which deals specifically with building management. And this is my first reaction again, and if I keep reacting like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kolovratník is reporting and then Vice-President Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u14	Thank you. I do not want to take the wind off the sails of my colleague Klára Dostálová, I am glad that she has come. And I'll be glad, Minister, if I and my colleague can tell you about it, or I'll tell you something, and Klára Dostálová will fill me in. Please, it's not possible to prepare it except for the committee and put the finished stuff in practically already closed shop. I don't think that's the deal with the opposition, but I'm sure we'll have more to say. Now, Minister, I have one rather crucial thing to do with the construction law. All of us, all of us Members, have been getting dozens of e-mails in our mailboxes in recent days, hundreds of e-mails from the civil public, to restrictions on the public's right to comment on environmental issues. And here I'm going to remind you that in the previous, government-prepared version of the Building Act, integration was also counting on the solution to the environment, that we had that right for the public there. When you discussed the final wording in the government, which is now here, it's the press we're discussing, you're, as we've learned, a bit of a step aside. When the Secretary of State Hubáčková wasn't there, you ruled the public out of it relatively in one small sentence. It was your activity and Minister Kupka for Transport. From the point of view of your departments, I can understand this, but from the perspective of environmental protection and the involvement or integration of the public in these processes, it is a very, very problematic step and it is witnessed by dozens, hundreds of emails. So, please, I ask for one more answer from you, and that is the answer to the issue of the public, associations and public participation in environmental matters for any construction projects. How do you deal with this, say, campaign or this very big call and demand from the public, how do you want to incorporate it into this comprehensive amendment?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u15	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Klára Dostálová, then Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u16	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, he actually asked the same question, my honored colleague Martin Kolovratník, because I was actually running from the office, because of course I was perceiving the Minister's sentences here, that it really is not possible to put this on the committee table. We had an agreement, and I would like to thank you very much for the agreement that the construction law is being worked on, the coalition with the opposition. I think that this is really well set and that we could actually come to a very good conclusion so that the construction law passes much easier in the Chamber of Deputies - I don't want to say it like a butter knife, but of course it is much more welcoming, but this must be discussed. And so far, we have no texts that we have agreed on - that is, some adjustments that would have been consistent across the political spectrum - we have not seen. That is absolutely impossible on the committee, because the committee would have to interrupt the deadline in order to even comment on it. And since we were high-fiveing in quotation marks that there are some deadlines that we all want to keep, and we really want to help you, that's not possible. So just please, let's call the meeting as soon as possible. Show us the lyrics so that we can look into it and, if necessary, sort things out. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u17	Thank you. Now the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u18	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to Madam Vice-President, Vice-President, Vice-President, Vice-President, Mr Kolovratník, through Madam President. Today we are consolidating all the things that, of course - and I am trying, when Mr Kolovratník here, through Madam President, said, as a manager, so the government tends to have such a tendency that until you decide the percentage or the detail, sometimes it is as if nothing is happening. It's not like that for an MMR. Of course, the individual legislative pieces that reflect the will and then the future agreement in the legislative text for citizens, in the amendment to the law or its amendment, are, of course, created on an ongoing basis. And those racks where the details are adjusted in the quotation marks. But the detail you mentioned here, sometimes significantly, can shift the wording of the law, so we have prepared it, in the next few days we will certainly meet with you. I said we're closing shop. Of course, it was from the point of view of what can be considered before the opposition was discussed and on the committee whether this should be addressed in some way, not by a comprehensive amendment, but by a sort of comprehensive amendment, because we would never have done that work. This goes in agreement with the proposal of the MMR, this will have to be submitted to the opposition, as is the standard - this will be presented by coalition MPs. So it wasn't closing the store, and nothing's happening from now on. But we have stopped, in fact, just for you, for the purposes of the committee, to draw up those final legislative texts, which we will then discuss, whether they are okay or need to add something, expand and reduce so that we have some final package of things that we would then either submit as the Ministry of Regional Development through, for example, Members, or then, of course, they would be presented as they predict a legislative process in the House. Creativity, of course, but it is the work of a Member, there are no limits. There may be other and other amendments to the committee in the standard process, which is done by any ministry against the amendments, which we will discuss and comment on. Just like the package was sent from, say, a commercial sector working group, which was sent to us last week, I think, Friday. And when I saw the summary table, there were already our positions where we see some problems and things like that. Otherwise, we'll consolidate today, and I'll get back to you as soon as I can, and the deadline -- the 20th should be delivered, but that's in 11 days, until then, we'll definitely discuss it with you, and they'll write any changes. [[9.50 hours]] Otherwise, with regard to a uniform environmental position, which therefore integrates or respectively settles about nine or how many environmental stamps, yes, and that has been said here, that is the law that is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Environment. I was even when we performed in the government, so I think that the original text was significantly better, where it was a wider representation of the public, especially unlimited to the thing that concerns specific parts that account for about 5% of all cases, that is where the EIA is required. However, I would also like to point out in this interview that, on the one hand, the final text will be part of the negotiation of the Single Environmental Opinion Act on the Committee, and I would say here that this should be answered by the Minister of the Environment, even though as a member of the Government I am dealing with this and there is also some shift there, because I think that the public, who may then be able to participate in other stages of the process, has something to say, especially if this is happening in an area where, for example, the professional public is represented by an association of citizens in a residential and similar place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u19	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? It's not like that. I am now asking Mr Kolovratník whether he is proposing a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u20	Thank you for the floor, I'll be brief. Unfortunately, I have not been satisfied with these answers and I will propose a dissenting resolution by the Chamber of Deputies. On one thing, Minister, we agree, as you said in the marketing claim, that view of the matter, that one submission. I'm sure I liked those sentences, and we're in agreement there. From a user's point of view, it really has to be one place, one moment, where I'm going to make a request and someone will answer me. Let me lighten this up, use your terminology, which you like in digitalization - it's the frontend and the backend. So on the question of the frontend, I'm sure we agree on the user environment, but we're just not convinced that the so-called backend will work. If you have time limits in the law, o. k., it is good, right. But if we're working with special construction agencies here, with partial integration into municipalities with extended scope, with other agendas in the lower-ranking municipalities, we're afraid that this will be the destruction and that the authorities simply won't be able to meet those deadlines within the so-called backend. That's ad one, so it won't be one office. And ad two - the answer to the issue of public participation in environmental matters was very vague, very vague for me. You did a little bit at the Department of the Environment, but I don't think that's what the citizens want to hear. They want a clear answer. So I propose and rely on these arguments that I have said to the House pursuant to Section 112 of the Rules of Procedure. 5 has taken the view that it does not agree with the response to this written intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u21	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You are therefore proposing that we adopt a resolution which states that the House does not agree with the Minister's reply to your questioning. I'll rejoin and call in colleagues from the lobby. And before my colleagues arrive, I will read the apologies: Minister Pavel Blažek apologizes from 13:00 for working reasons, and Minister Jan Lipavskýý apologizes all day for working reasons. Yes, then we will vote. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. I'm going to sign you all off and ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. The number of entries has stabilized. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 99 Members and Members voted in favour of 46, versus 51. The motion was denied. I'm done discussing this interpellation. I thank both the Member and the Minister and the other speakers. We will now proceed to the discussion of the next interpelation. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek responded to Mr Kamal Farhan's interpellation on waiting times for an MRI and CT scan. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 356. I am opening the debate and asking if anyone is taking part in the debate? That's right. Mr Farhan has signed up for the debate and has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open here a written interview to which I have received a reply from the Minister. It's about waiting times for an MRI or CT scan. In response to my interpelation, Minister, you write that waiting periods for magnetic resonance imaging and CT devices are not monitored by health insurance companies or administrative systems of the IHIS. So should I explain it to myself or to translate that you, as Minister of Health and the Ministry under you, do not know and do not care how long a normal Czech patient waits for these examinations, whether waiting times correspond to the medical needs of patients, whether we have sufficient capacity for medical devices, technologies and physicians who provide tests on magnetic resonance imaging and CT devices? Are you sure you don't care, Minister? I am surprised that you can manage the Ministry of Health without basic knowledge of how long it is waiting in the Czech Republic for examinations and planned health performances. You're telling me that waiting times aren't really measured due to the diversity of care. In contrast with the government's declaration of efforts to digitize health care, use of data and development of eGovernment in general, this is a smile for me. It wouldn't be easier for you to write to me: We just don't want to measure it, we don't do it, we don't know how to do it. Furthermore, in response to the interpelation, you say that waiting times are not validly measured. But three sentences below, which I've already gotten used to, that even in one text you contradict that three sentences below in the same document, there is a difference whether it is a patient with an acute deterioration in health with a need for minimum waiting time, and a stabilized patient where a stabilized patient has a standard waiting time. So you don't know how to measure waiting times, but you know there's a standard waiting time for patients. Therefore, I would like to add my interpelation to the question of what is the standard waiting time for individual examinations. When you say upstairs you said you needed a standard waiting period for certain types of tests, do these patients get in the standard waiting time? And what are the differences between the different regions, whether you're watching it or going to watch it? Then I ask further, if you do not know how long you are waiting for examination, you cannot know from my point of view how these examinations are available in the Czech Republic. When they get late for an examination and surgery, it significantly reduces the quality and availability of health care. [[10.00 hours]] I hear these complaints from patients relatively often, that they cannot get an examination, that they are waiting for surgery, that certain health establishments have offered them a very distant term, and therefore from my point of view it is necessary to see how it really is. Whether these people's complaints are justified or not. Whether it's individual flaws or the system's failing somewhere. And if there's a system failure somewhere, you need to look for a solution. This cannot be done with closed eyes or closed ears, when the Ministry does not even care what the situation is, and cannot answer this in writing to Members of Parliament, it is in principle impossible for them to work towards improvement in the future. That's a pretty frustrating finding for me. You're telling me that you're drawing attention to the announcement by the management of the UHIS Institute that the return on health care and service providers' reports was very low. This is a very nice reminder for which, as an opposition Member, I thank you very much. And now, by conclusion, Minister, as the top executive and health officer of the Czech Republic, the person responsible for the UHIS, I ask: What are you and the management of the UHIS going to do about it? Indeed, there is no indication in response to written interpelation that you would try to address this adverse aspect in any way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u23	Thank you. The Minister will answer your questions. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u24	Madam President, dear Members, I may surprise you now, but, by your means, I completely agree with everything Mr Farhan has said. I'll do it again. I completely agree with everything that Mr Farhan has said. Why do I agree with that? Because I am still a member of the Board of the Radiological Society and my predecessor at the Ministry, Minister Leoš Heger, who was also a radiologist, listened to the recommendations of the Radiological Society and began to follow these deadlines. And we had information about the terms for acute performances, subacute performances, chronic - those categories are defined, I understand that those of you who are not radiologists, which are all but me, so they cannot see it, but they are the recommendations of the Czech Radiological Society, which are published on the recommendations of the European Radiological Society. Unfortunately, after Leoš Heger ended up a minister, the other ministers bailed, but that was brutally and brutally, and I tried to change the situation. First, as President of the Radiological Society, when I wrote to my predecessors, then to ministers for social democracy and vice-president, so that they would start to follow this again in order to hear the recommendations of the professional society. It was vanity. Then I became a Member, and I asked the opposition to do the same for my five predecessors at the Ministry of Health: Vojtěch, for Minister Prymula it was so short that it didn't even make sense, then Minister Blatný, in the case of Minister Arenberger it was also quite unnecessary, and then again Minister Vojtěch. They promised me, some of them would do something about it, but for different objective reasons, it didn't happen. It is absolutely necessary to monitor the examination dates, and why is that? First, in acute patients, i.e. where a doctor who displays a request and writes that the examination is a statim - acute, and it doesn't matter if it's a scan, a CT scan, an MRI, it just has to be done in statim mode. It is a recommendation from a professional company that I have signed and have advocated as chairman or scientific secretary of this company. Which exams are they? Typical example is case syndrome in patients with back pain. It's just absurd for a patient who has caud syndrome, pain shoots out into his lower limbs, has continuum disorders, urine retention and stool, to wait for an MRI scan, I don't know, day two, because then the changes can become irreversible. The examination has to be done not only on a tripm basis, but also on a tripm basis, and this is how I can proceed. Then there are examinations that are, say, subacute, but the committee is defined as examinations that are under hospitalization, and these examinations should be carried out if the patient is hospitalized as quickly as possible. The reasons are both medical and, of course, economic. It's just wrong for a patient to be in the hospital for a week, waiting for an examination, and there's nothing really going on with him, the insurance company pays the bed occupied, while the patient is waiting for an examination. Then it's the third category, and they're outpatient patients, and here it's very complicated. On the one hand, you can have an outpatient who goes to mammographic screening. Screening is performed at intervals of several years and a number of patients need to be ordered with an annual advance for the screening, simply because they agree on a deadline. The same applies to patients monitored. These may be oncological patients, patients with Crohnův's disease, patients who have some brain disease, where it is needed once every six months, three quarters of a year to carry out regular checks, and those patients agree on a certain date, and this of course significantly deforms order dates in outpatients, because in a number of cases the indicated doctor simply wants it to be done, that check, in six months, in three quarters of a year, in a year. And then there's a sum of patients who are on the exam for the first time, let's say, and they have different kinds of problems. They have very serious problems, or they have long-term and chronic problems. So if we take two types of patients, let's say with headaches, then a patient who has long-term headaches may have various examinations, very likely it's a migraine where the imaging methods show no pathology, and this patient, when he gets three weeks, four weeks, a month, two months, will certainly not endanger his health. But again, it's always the indicated doctor who has to make a clear statement on the request, what's the indication, how the examination rushes, when it's to be ordered. On the other hand, we have a patient with sudden headaches, and the pain is essential, clinically there may be a finding, I don't know, occupying the eye background, yes - in this outpatient - also outpatient - the examination must be done immediately. So what did we do at the Department of Health? As soon as I got in, I was trying to figure out what it was like to report the statistics that we repeatedly asked for, where it got stuck. With Professor Dušek and other organizations - I invited committees of some professional companies - we agreed to follow the advice of the Radiological Society. I approached the committee because I am a member of the committee, so I took part in several meetings, and I asked them to define precisely when the description must be carried out, how quickly the description must be carried out. I did the same with the committee of nuclear medicine, which actually has hybrid methods in its gesture, PET /CT, PET/MR. The second step we took, so we gave the task of the Instrumental Commission, so that if the expensive instrumental equipment was approved, the condition was to use it in two-shift traffic, and that there would be checks to see if this was really the use, so that the workplaces that insist on buying - and I could now use some hospitals that I drove around, and I personally checked whether the devices were really used that way, and unfortunately in some of them - so that if the hospital buys resonance, it buys expensive instrumental equipment to really use it in two-shift traffic, if it's paid by the insurance company, possibly even Saturdays. [[name]] The third thing we did, we started to approach a little differently private applicants who wanted to operate this instrument technology, but only for outpatients. Because if you take the Motol University Hospital, which has the same number of beds as the Allgemeines Krankenhaus in Vienna, the Allgemeines Krankenhaus in Vienna, according to my latest information, which I have, and unfortunately are not completely recent, some eleven magnetic resonances, there are probably three at the Motol University Hospital. With the same number of beds, with very similar patient structure, it is simply excluded that the three magnetic resonances in Motol, or how many of them are there, manage the examination of hospitalized patients as they manage at Allgemeines Krankenhaus, and still offer outpatient terms. This means we have to run an outpatient workplace into the system, we have to launch magnetic resonance imaging, for example, which is with 0.5 tesla, which has repeatedly blocked the Ministry in the Czech Republic. We need to let them into the system so that the outpatients, knee joints, brains and so on, can investigate. And that's what we're working on. We had HTA run an analysis. We asked, I believe, the University of Ladies to do this analysis for us. [[10.10 hours]] Then there's the last pebble in the puzzle, and that's how the patient learns about the term. You might recall that I was talking here about the South Moravian Region, where I visited two hospitals, and one of them is a Břeclav hospital, where they're basically looking for patients for an MRI for an outpatient exam. I use it if you are from the South Moravian Region, Břeclav - they have very short dates. Why? They have enough labs, they have a good director, he makes an excellent management strategy, so they're able to have two-shift operations on that resonance, and they're able to start two-shift operations on that resonance in the next few days. What's holding them back is really a lack of patients, not staff, not insurance. On the other hand, another hospital in the same region, which has the same device, has one-shift operation, not even in all days, and the dates for outpatients are, of course, substantially, substantially longer. So the discussion that I started and started on the way of the IHIS with individual regions, not with all of them, is whether it would be appropriate to have a central register, a central offer of dates for patients at regional level or at insurance level, I don't really care how technically this would be done. It is not entirely happy to have a central record on the Ministry's website, because then it would have to be for the whole Republic, plus not all organizations are directly under the Ministry. It's much better if it's organized by regions or insurance companies. But I'd like to find a way to do that. I would like to potentially use the Dot as well, even there could be an opportunity to obtain information about dates so that the patient can look, when he has a request and it is not an acute examination, it is not an examination where the indicated doctor writes it, it is necessary to do it in, say, two, three days, it is not an outpatient examination and it is not an examination of patients who repeatedly go to examinations and go to one workplace where they follow them, there they want to have the examination as closely as possible linked to the treatment - they treat leukemia there, they go there for a checkup and in general it is planned with great advance. So for the sum, for the mass of outpatient patients who hurt their backs, the attending doctor, the practice, they're going to write a request for an MRI, a CT scan, an MRI in a number of indications today, an ultrasound, but that's not the problem. The key problem is really resonance and CT, but mostly resonance, and so that the patient gets information about where in his surroundings at some available distance are what terms so he doesn't have to call the workplace so he doesn't have to find out: There's a term, there's a term, but there's an information. It is an illusion to think - and I do not think that anyone here in this House would think or think that, by your means, my honourable colleague, Mr Farhan, because he is a doctor and he knows that it is stupid - so it is an illusion to think that the same terms could be exactly the same on all devices. That's nonsense. There may always be shorter dates in outpatient patients where there is greater concentration of instruments. We're talking about this defined group of outpatients. So I completely agree that we need to make this situation better in some way. The D.O.D. must have accurate information, and that's what I started working on. I fully accept the recommendations of a professional society, which unfortunately my predecessors did not do, but I understand that they had other concerns and that this did not bother them so much, it was a difficult time, there were other more important things. We need to start working very intensively in cooperation with the insurance company, with the operators, with the regions to make it possible for patients to order, as far as possible, centrally, and here I see it as a priority MRI. And we must not forget that it is simply not possible for devices in hospitals to substitute outpatient examinations instead of the shortest time of hospitalization and acute examination. And that is why we need to support, say, installation in private sectors, in private workplaces. The last one: the instrument committee must check whether what the applicants promised - and here I would focus mainly on magnetic resonance, but I do not underestimate hybrid methods, I do not underestimate PET/CT, so what they promised to do is really to fulfill, i.e. two-shift operations, to provide a description and so on and so forth. Without staff, high-quality personnel, these methods cannot be carried out, and we have high-quality staff. It's mostly bad management decisions, not doctor mistakes, not our paramedics' mistakes, and it's definitely not our patients' fault. It's mostly management decisions. So I'm gonna work on it, I'm working on it, I've started working on it as soon as I joined, not because I'm a minister, just a minister, but mainly because I'm also a radiologist and a doctor, personally it's been bothering me for many years, and I'm gonna be happy to be able to do this honored Chamber of Deputies and Members who are here, the Health Committee, I hope, within six months to inform where the situation has moved, how exactly we've set the rules, how we've gotten them into some sub-legal standards, because, as I have analyses from the Ministry, it won't be necessary to change legislation, so it won't be necessary to modify any of the laws. Thank you, through you, Mr Farhan, for giving me the opportunity to answer and inform me in this way, and thank you for raising this subject, because it is really a subject that I think is bothering a number of citizens of the Czech Republic and I am suffering double as a minister and as a radiologist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u25	Thank you, Minister, and before I give the floor to Mr Farhan, Mr Brázdil, and then Mr Peštová, made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u26	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to react in my actual waiting time. Colleagues, colleagues, what have you left here, how do you do it, in case you want to be examined, you need to be examined, and you know it's probably gonna take, and it's not that simple? You call your friend, by the way, it's happening here in the House, you go to the doctor, you, help, across the spectrum. Yeah, but do you know how other people do it? They're gonna call 155 in good faith that they think they're gonna go around, but they're gonna come get me, I'll be right there. And they're very wrong, they're very wrong! Anyway, what's going to happen? In other words, they overwhelm it. They mean well, the system's just overwhelmed, there's no doctors, there's no CT, there's a lot of people in the waiting queue. Well, they think if they call, they'll be first in line. It's not like that. And so, in fact, this problem is moving on to the pre-hospital emergency care. And today, those exits that you may think are connected to some kind of crashes and acute cases, a heart attack, a stroke where you need to be there as quickly as possible - in four, six minutes our brain doesn't exist when it's stopped - these people are de facto preventing the abuse from helping those really urgent patients. I wanted to say that this problem is wide. I don't know how to solve the emergency service abuse, but, Minister, you're on the phone right now, you're not listening to me, but that's okay, I believe you're going to deal with it. If any of you can figure out a way to prevent the abuse of pre-hospital emergency care, please come to the counter, suggest. It's not even a fee, because a lot of people are calling, and they don't even know how the person is. It's a problem, and I'll be happy for it. Come on, make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u27	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová is now on the verdict. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u28	I, too, would like - thank you for the floor, Madam President - to respond. Now I've got some beautiful news, we all have fans. So he wrote to me - I'm not going to name the master, so there's no more dehonestation: "Hello. Because of the pains of my knee and spine, I waited for six months at the nuclear plant to scan the whole skeleton. The problem needs to be specified by a CT scan. I have a deadline in March and April. I'm glad this year." Those are troubles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u29	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, these are problems, I totally agree. I am deeply concerned about this and I have been dealing with it for many years by the Radiological Society Committee. In vain! In vain! [[In an elevated voice.]] Complain to my predecessors that they didn't do anything about it! They haven't moved a finger in eight years! For eight years, they have done nothing to shorten the terms, to make them more accessible, to approve nonsensical instruments that are not used on the instrument committee, and not to control their use! And I can make a list of some people sitting here who lobbyed within regional councils for devices to hospitals that are not used at all. And as far as this particular case is concerned, I would very much like the citizen to send it to me, so I say it publicly, because to indicate, in the pain of knee, a full body examination in nuclear medicine, that's a completely pointless indication! And I say this with full seriousness as a university professor who deals with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Farhan will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u32	Thank you for the floor. I think it's appropriate to respond to the Minister's words. First of all, let me thank you, Minister, for agreeing with everything I've said here. It's a great honor... [[A voice from the diaper.]] - someone tells me - when the professor who's involved in this compliments me and agrees with me. Secondly, to thank you, I thank you very much for your educational lecture, because I think that many of my colleagues and Members have enriched this - the division of individual examinations, whether they are statimal examinations. For those who don't know what a statim is - it's an acute examination. Then you described a nicely educationally subacute examination and at the end you described an outpatient. Thank you very much for that, and I think my colleagues appreciated it. And the other thing is, why did I even sign up for that written interview? Because you haven't answered my surveillance questions at all. Then, in your second half of the speech, everything you wanted to do, what you were going to do. If it were in that written interpelation and it was limited in time, I think I'd be happy with it, because I would know what's going to happen, whereas there's nothing like that in that answer, and to be completely correct, all you mentioned or what was there was was about... local... indirectly regulated through the work of the Ministry of the Interior commission. So that was the only answer. So for me, what you said here and suggested, I was pleased with one thing. I was delighted to hear you say: As soon as I got in, I began to look into it. That's very gratifying, because you've been doing this for over a year. I think that's a good point. You also said that within six months you'll have outputs, I suppose, and some solutions. Since you've proposed that time frame for six months, which is a year and a half since you've been dealing with it, I suppose a year and a half is a relatively long time, so I wanted to thank you for that. And I think that's enough for me, and I'm not gonna suggest that we vote on your answer to the written interpelation because I learned what you're doing, that you've been doing this for a year, and that you're still going to deal with it for six months, and then you're going to give us information. So I'm no longer proposing a vote on your interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Mr Brázdil has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u34	I'm sorry, I'd still respond. I asked the question. If you had any suggestions, I was talking about pre-hospital emergency care following the abuse, if someone had - you have no one, but I definitely think, everyone sitting here, we agree that the money would at least open the door. The 14 billion that went away, if they were there, maybe more can be bought from the instrument, maybe better paid by doctors for 24 hours, maybe more and maybe more and maybe more. It's a way, it's a possibility. I know, now you say, so it's gone, 14 billion probably won't go back, but after all, it could, it was some kind of hope that would make health care possible in this regard, in waiting for anything, better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u35	Thank you. The Minister will still respond and then report... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, you're reporting for the debate, okay? It's factual. So we give the floor to the Minister, then your de facto will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u36	Thank you, Madam President. By means of you, I always appreciate the performance of my colleague Brázdil. 14 billion, so it's not a single CT machine. We both know that, for 14 billion, we're not buying any of the techniques we talked about. So is the X-ray machine, and the X-ray machine is slowly approaching this price. There is no problem with money, on the contrary. Those tests are backed up by performance, we can... sorry, 14 million one CT, I misjudged the order, okay? I'm sorry, I'm very sorry. However, money in this case is really not a problem, really not. I understand that you are raising the subject, that is understandable, I would have done it too if I were in opposition, but if we had not taken the opposition debate, the coalition - and by your means, I thank Mr Farhan very much for the extremely correct debate, and I thank him for the suggestions - so if we consider the opposition and coalition discussions here, we will certainly agree that it should be clear that a patient who needs an acute examination should get it now. A patient in whom a doctor indicates an examination up to a certain time should have that examination by then. We agree that in outpatient patients there may be different ordering times, and there is always a reason, and there is no doubt that everyone, at least in the galleys, agrees that it is simply a mistake for an emergency to be abused to be abused quickly, because there is no greater tragedy when ambulances are on the way for nothing and a patient dies because of it or is threatened by human life. That's something we agree on, too. If we consider politics, we will probably agree that we would all welcome, for example, that within the regions, we have information about the terms in the organisations that are conducting the examinations in that region, whether they are controlled by the region, whether they are controlled by the state or whether they are private, and that any overview and possibility of central ordering or any such cooperation would certainly be advantageous. That's why I'm glad the subject is raised. It should certainly also be part of the discussion when the examination has to be described, because if the examination is done, and then its description, making the description, takes days, so it is also not exactly the way we want it to be, but money really at this stage is not the fundamental problem. The fundamental problem is the way in which, say, the use of these devices would be controlled. And here I will be very happy if the opposition and the coalition cooperate very much, we will take the pressure away from it, and we will really ensure that the instruments are used properly, especially when money is spent on them from the state budget or from various grant titles. It's just that if a promise is made to the instrument commission - and it's important to say that the instrument committee is run by the founders, the regional representatives go there, the operator's representatives go there, that is, they all promise how to use, how to use the staff, and we should check whether this is happening, and we should have the courage, if the machine is not used, stands, works one, two days a week, hit hard and do not succumb to local pressures in restoring such a device. On the contrary, they put the machines where they can use them properly. We should and I would very much like it to be reflected in the payment decree, to bonify those workplaces that use two-shift machines, to check out those workplaces that provide continuous operation due to acute examinations. There's nothing worse than bringing you a patient who needs an acute MRI because it depends on how the patient will be treated, and that's not available. You know it, everyone knows it, but it's just not available because the hospital doesn't provide 24-hour traffic, even though it promised the Instrumental Commission. It's a long-term mischief, and I understand that it's not my predecessor's fault that they haven't dealt with it. I have the advantage of being an expert in this area, and I am deeply concerned personally. It's really bothering me, and I'm dead serious, and now I'm not even making any sense of politics, it's just that I'm still a member of the Radiological Society Committee, and my colleagues on the committee are still blaming me every month for what's going to happen. But all of you who are here and who have sat in the executive, you know that the changes that a person wants to make that require some and sub-legal changes, you just can't make from day to day. Yes, it takes a year, but I've already set up what to do, we've made changes to the instrument committee, and I'm definitely going to make those other changes in the next period. And I repeat, within six months, I will inform the Chamber of Deputies or the Health Committee, probably the Health Committee, where we have moved it, what we have set up, what is the target. [[10.30 hours]] And all of you who sit, do not care whether you are on the left or right or opposite me, who are sitting at your regional councils, you are in opposition or coalition at the edges, please support it so that the individual regions consider whether to open online ordering systems for patients, for citizens of their regions, at least for hospitals that are directly controlled by the regions. To move this discussion forward. I don't want to throw that responsibility at the edge, I'm ready to help the most. It's possible we can agree that insurance companies will do it. But really my great goal and ambition is for a citizen to find out in some way simply, at least in large cities and regions where there is a higher concentration of those instruments, such as out-of-court ordering times on individual machines and choose: either to wait a little longer, but the examination will take place near his residence, or he will drive 20, 30, 40 kilometers and he will order earlier. And again, Břeclav Hospital is a good example of short ordering terms, and yes, patients go there from a greater distance. I'm sorry to keep you from doing this, but it's really bothering me personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u37	I thank the Minister and I have two electronic applications for a factual remark and then Mr Síla is reporting from the seat, so first Mr Mašek. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u38	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I would only respond to the Minister on two very brief points. The Minister, in his reasoning, throws it at the previous governments in quotation marks, on the fact that there was nothing to do with the machines, that they were bought in an impeccable manner. When we joined the government, you will remember for sure that it was the criticism of purchases of overpriced devices in those days, including faculty hospitals, that was just within the framework of our government's programming statement as a matter of concern, and we were actually dealing with it. Those overpriced purchases have disappeared, and I don't think there have been any purchases of this type in the last four years, so it's very important for me here to point out that it can't be put back on Andrej Babiš's government. Definitely, on the contrary. And then it is also the thing that - and this shift of the minister's opinion and will to address this matter I want to appreciate on the microphone here because even a few months ago, when we were talking, for example, about regional emergency rooms, but also about the issue of regional hospitals, the waiting times, the minister refused that it was not his problem, that he had no reach for it - or now I would like to call on him when he promised to microphone here, that he wanted to address it, that he felt he felt he felt global, and not only the minister of faculty hospitals, so he would like to call on him to discuss these things with the Association of Regions, too, and to ask the regions which are the founders of these hospitals to release this information and help patients to seek faster examinations and treatments. So I thank you, Minister, for this shift of opinion, and I believe that it will not just remain a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u39	Thank you for keeping time and another is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u40	Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, thank you very much for your answers to the written interview. Mr. Farhan has made his point. I therefore take the view that the Minister has been in office for some time. I know he's dealing with these things, he said some sort of solution today, what he's going to do, but I think that the time is enough to take concrete steps. I really think that the fact that he took 14 billion from health insurance, that it certainly wasn't the right step, that he was missing from health care. And what I'm saying is that when they talk about these regional emergency rooms here, I'd like to say that, for example, in the Karlovy Vary Region, we've now approved an increase in funds to secure the emergency room, and the Karlovy Vary Region will be giving over CZK 40 million out of its budget. [[The Minister is speaking to Mrs Peštová on the stand.]] I hope that the Minister listens to me very carefully at the moment, because I would also like to follow up on the fact that not only did he take 14 billion for health insurance, but what raised me from the chair at the last regional council was that the Karlovy Vary Region asked for a project for the Mental Health Center CZK 14 million, but because the Ministry of Health was unable to issue a decision and issued it in a year and a month, the Karlovy Vary Region lost the grant of 14 million and had to pay it out of its budget from the network. So that's another thing that I'm just convinced is going the wrong way. [[President: Time, Madame.]] If I do, I'll check in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u41	Thank you so much for keeping time. Mr. Síla is now reporting from the scene. No? He's interrupting. Mr Farhan's application has now come in, and he's canceling. So I don't see anyone logged in anymore. I will therefore add further apologies: Mr Richard Brabec apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Dvořák Jaroslav from 10.15 to 12 hours for health reasons, Mrs Oborná Monika from 12 am to 13 pm for personal reasons, Mrs Opltová Michaela until 11 pm for work reasons, Mr Richter Jan the whole day for work reasons, Minister Kupka Martin until 11 pm and then from 14 pm for work reasons and Minister Nekula Zdeněk the whole day for work reasons. If no one else is in the general debate - I do not see anybody, so I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Kamal Farhan now if he is proposing a resolution? He's not suggesting. So this concludes the discussion of this written interpelation. The next item is the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpelation on Plytka and expensive government communication. Interpelation, along with the reply, is being submitted as House press 363 and I am launching a debate on this interpelation. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u42	Thank you for the floor. Good morning again from me. In this interpelation I do things that again - it is therefore with a time shift in this case no longer as big and long as in my previous one with Minister Bartoš, it is an interpelation of 18 November of this year, and I intersect the Prime Minister in the matter as I have called it, Plytic and expensive government communication. I see from the point of view of the opposition Member as a very expensive and useless campaign of the deštník Against Delicateness. Since then, there has been another new thing, and these are all the billboards, posters, and similar issues where the government in such a subline color of the SPOLU coalition evaluates its achievements, what she has accomplished, what she has achieved. In the interview, I also asked about the famous billboard, the poster with Russian President Putin in the body bag at the Home Office building. I also asked who paid for it and how much security cost this thing. The Prime Minister has answered me in some way, but unfortunately he is not present today, and I am therefore asking for an interruption of this point, because I would very much like to discuss the matter with him personally and exchange the arguments here in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please interrupt until the next written interview. Okay, I'm gonna have my colleagues come to the polls from the lobby. We will therefore vote on the interruption of this interpelation until the next written interpelations, so that Prime Minister Fiala is present. Gonguji, gonguji, just a moment longer, if you don't mind, we'll wait. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the interruption? Who's against it? Voting number 71, registered 118 Members, for 74, against 13. The motion was accepted. This interpelation will therefore be discussed at the next written interpelations in the presence of Prime Minister Fiala. I am opening another written interpelation, which is an interpellation to the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, who responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpelation on the hasty conclusions of missile intervention in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 364. I am opening the debate on this point and I will ask Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u44	Unfortunately, also here Minister Černochová is absent, yet I will make a brief comment on this, and I would also like to ask for an interruption of this point, so that we can discuss this with the Minister in the face of the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and explain this matter. But for those of you who are not familiar with the content of the interpellation, I must say that I've never seen the flat, flat, maybe even an insolent answer written by Secretary Černochová. I asked the Minister clearly, I formulated it, it was about the unfortunate incident in Poland with two dead people, with the missile or the remains of a missile in the territory of the NATO Member State, Poland. I made it clear to the Minister that we are in agreement in the sense that the Russian President Putin is the one who caused the whole problem, who is the culprit, the Russian President Putin is that it is not whose rocket it was, whether it was Ukrainian, or whether it was Russian, we can discuss it. I asked how the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic could afford to tweet just after the incident that he had verified that it was a Russian rocket, that it was quite clear, when the information, very discreetly working with it both the Security Council of Poland and NATO representatives, were very restrained, very responsible, and the hasty, furious statements made by Minister Černochová had to put out and moderate until Prime Minister Petr Fiala. That's what I wanted to ask the secretary. I didn't get an answer. I got one statement that Putin was responsible for everything, nothing more, nothing less. So this is what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen, communication, to the dangerous communication of Secretary of Defense of the Czech Government Jana Černochová. But I want to talk to the secretary about it. I want to hear why she was so rash, why she was so hasty, why she didn't take the tweet back, and why she couldn't be a little diplomat and a person with a mindset who knows how sensitive things are. Unfortunately, the Minister is not present, so in this case I will also ask the House to interrupt this point until the next interpelatory day and until its presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am already gonging to my colleagues from the lobby so that we can vote on the interruption of this interpelation until the next written interventions so that Minister Černochová is present. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, registered by 123 Members, for 79, against 6. The motion was accepted. So we will also discuss this interpellation at the next written interpelations in the presence of Minister Černochová. I am opening another, last written interview to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who responded to Mr Karel Tureček's interpellation on the risky reduction of funds in the Cancer Fund. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 370. I am opening the debate and asking whether a Member of Tureček is present? If this is not the case, I draw attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' So that concludes the discussion of this interpelation, and I note that for today we have ended the discussion of the responses to the written interpelation of Members. [[Ambassador Simek reporting.]] The point is over, I'm sorry. I'm just gonna ask Mr. Šimek if it was for the vote or for the deed? I think it's for the vote. And since there was an agreement that we would continue to discuss further points immediately after the completion of the written intercessions, we should start the next negotiations with the already firmly placed points, and this is point 11, House Press 368, defence laws, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2, and paragraph 12, House press 369, defence financing, first reading. Then we should focus on points from the Act block - second reading, point 2, House printing 288, protection of employees in default of the employer; point 3, House printing 346, Electronic Communications Act. Furthermore, we should continue with points from the Act block - first reading according to the voting order: paragraph 13, House printing 371, on preventive restructuring; paragraph 14, House printing 372, on bankruptcy and its solutions; paragraph 5, House printing 350, on compensation for the effects of the covid-19 epidemic, pursuant to § 90 para. 2; paragraph 9, House printing 366, on road traffic; paragraph 8, House printing 362, Law on seed and seed circulation; paragraph 6, House printing 360, on public auctions; paragraph 7, House press 361, on public auctions - related laws. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be dealing with point 110, which is oral questioning. In accordance with the proposed programme, I am opening item number 11... [[Short specification of the organisational department.]] Now I'm giving room to change the design of the show. But with priority rights, I have Mr. Jakob's application - no, he's canceling. Please, Mrs. Mr. Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u46	Madam Vice-President, I don't see it at this point, or maybe I can see that the Minister is there for Vice-President Kovářová, there is no one else behind me, but here I see the Minister, I'm sorry, Minister. I would like to propose a programme - thank you, Madam Vice-President, who said that there will be oral questioning at 14.30 today. I wanted to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister when I was told that the Prime Minister would not be present, so I wanted to give it to the Minister, for example Vít Rakušan, who is also absent, and I found that eleven ministers are at present excused for the afternoon of the oral interview. [[10.50 hours]] So I'm wondering why oral questioning is happening, why they're in the program. I think we all have a meeting schedule, we all know when oral questioning will be. I consider this to be very incorrect, outrageous towards Members, because they want to ask the ministers, they are here from individual regions. I don't think there's a lot of these interviews, and if there's so much apologies today, I'd like the presidents of the five-police to say something about it. Because in order for most ministers to be absent, let's cancel the interpelations and solve something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u47	Thank you, Madame, but you have spoken on the draft agenda. Does that point have a name? [[No.]] It's not like that. I'm gonna ask if anyone else wants to design the show? Yes, please, Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u48	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll follow up on my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. I propose a point of expressing the representatives of the five koalice on the absence of ministers, members of the government, including the Prime Minister in the context of the intercession. I was here a week ago, 14 days ago, at the last meeting presenting how many times the interpelations were last year or during the reign of Petr Fiala. Now I didn't find the number quickly on my cell phone when I went to the counter, but it was a total crappy number. So please, how will this continue, how will the opposition be able to exercise its rights? Then you're complaining in all sorts of debates, in the media I read it here, that we're just loading points. But when else are we supposed to talk to you? You're referring to interpelation, and you don't go to interpelation. I consider it a scandal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I have therefore noted a new point in expressing the representatives of the five koalice on the absence of ministers in the intercessions. When do you need to put him in, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u50	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, I apologize for the first item on today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u51	First point today, thank you. Again, I'm asking if anyone else wants to go on the show proposal? If this is not the case, then we will vote on the proposals. We have one motion to vote, from President Schillerová, to express the representatives of the five-police on the absence of ministers at the meetings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u52	I apologize, Madam Vice-President - to the absence of members of the government, because there is also a prime minister, there are not only ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-001-109.u53	Okay: Statement by representatives of the five koalice on the absence of members of the government at interpelations. The President is calling for him to be the first item today. We will therefore now vote on the inclusion of this item in the programme. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Checkout request.]] Checkout, I'm sorry. I am terminating the vote (number 73). I'm signing everyone off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered by 123 Members and Members, for 57, against 53. The motion was not accepted. I therefore initiate the first item on today's agenda, which is item number
