ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Mr Lubomír Metnar asked the following Members to excuse their absence at the hearing: President Markéta Pekarová Adamová for the whole day on account of foreign travel, Margita Balaštíková for the whole day on medical grounds, Jan Bauer for the whole day on business grounds, Jaroslav Dvořák for the whole day on business grounds, Martin Exner from 12 o'clock on family grounds, Žáček Kašník for the whole day on medical grounds, Josef Kott for the whole day on account of foreign travel, Jana Krutáková for the whole day on business Karel, Michal Kučera for the whole day on account of health reasons, Jan Lacina for the whole day on account of international travel, Hubert Lang for the Potůčková Lucie on medical grounds, Petr Letocha for the whole day on a working Vomáčka on account of working grounds, Ondřej Lochman for the whole day on account of the sitting day on account of international travel, Mrs Ivana Mádlová for the whole day on medical Vít, Mrs Karla Maříková for the whole working day on the whole working day on the whole day, Mr Lumbík for the whole working Marek, Mr Radovan, for the whole Ženíšek on the whole Vích, for the whole day on the whole day on the Rais day on the case, for the case, for the whole day on the whole day on the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case Furthermore, the following ministers apologize from the members of the government: Prime Minister Petr Fiala for the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Minister Vladimír Balaš for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Mikuláš Bek for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Jan Lipavskýý for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Michal Šalomoun from 12 o'clock for personal reasons and Minister Vlastimil Válek for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons. I will ask you, Madam and Members, to keep your voice down so that it is well understood how and what points we are going to discuss today. Today's meeting should begin with firmly ranked points from the third reading block. It is paragraph 133, House Press 328, Government Bill on a Single Environmental Opinion; also paragraph 134, House Press 329, Government Bill on a Single Environmental Opinion related; paragraph 135, House Press 330, Government Amendment - Construction Act; paragraph 137, House Press 249, Government Amendment on Public Procurement. We would also continue the points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I'm registering two applications with priority rights to change the approved agenda of the 53rd meeting. Before we go into the negotiations, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Allow me to welcome Petr Hladík, the new environmental minister, among us. Welcome, Minister. [[Let's hear it.]] We will therefore now proceed to the proposals for adjusting the meeting. I register two applications, first President Jan Jakob and then President Alena Schillerová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to confirm the agreement of the club presidents that today we will discuss the four press, as the Vice-President has just read, i.e., prints 328, 329, 330 and 249. There is an agreement that we will not discuss any more points after that, so then, I firmly believe that this will be before 14 o'clock under these agreements, we would vote to remove the rest of the points from the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-000-000.u3	Thank you. I will now ask President Alena Schillerová to take the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, either from the right or from the left side of the hall, Mr. Faltýnek and others, I ask for silence. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the confirmation of an agreement that we have made very difficult. I am pleased that today we will work together for our citizens here, that we will discuss, and I firmly believe that we will also approve - the ANO movement is ready to support this - the construction law and the related regulations. Finally, our Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies for the ANO movement, Klára Dostálová, has worked a great deal on this. It was done across the political spectrum. So we, although we would have a whole range of questions and a whole range of topics that we would like to talk about - the Czech Post, the situation at the MPSV and so on, I could talk for a long time here, the drugs, there is no penicillin - we will, of course, raise these questions to the nearest meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, but today we prefer to work out important laws for people here, such as building laws are without a doubt. I welcome the agreement and confirm that the YES movement will be fully respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-000-000.u5	Thank you. Before we start discussing the agenda points, I'll read more apologies. Within 12 hours of work, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, Mr Jan Bureš apologizes for the whole day of the meeting, and Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 9.20 to 10.00 for the reasons of work. So I open the first point of today's negotiations, and that is
