ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I welcome you all to. I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards, because I just checked you all out. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as they were said at the 71st meeting. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 56 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, July 12, this year. We must therefore now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I do not see anyone reporting with another proposal, so I am opening the vote on the proposal submitted to the verifier of this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote of the first registered 109 Members and Members, 107 pros, against no one. The proposal was therefore accepted. I note that we have designated Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Hayat Okamura as verifiers for the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. As for the apologies, I refer to those that have already been heard at the previous meeting. However, there were two further apologies. Bernard Josef apologizes from 13:30 to 16:00 for work reasons, Okleštěk Ladislav apologizes from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 72nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. However, before this vote, President Cogan came forward with priority rights and President Babiš with priority rights. Subsequent preferential applications are up to the point itself. Now, then, President Cogan will come forward, and I ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you to this extraordinary meeting. I would like to propose, on behalf of five coalition clubs, that today be discussed and voted after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. It is rather for preventive reasons, but at the same time we know that in the afternoon, so I will allow myself to present this proposal. [[unintelligible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. This is a procedural proposal which is put to the vote immediately. So I will call my fellow Members from the lobby and repeat that President Cogan has proposed that we also vote today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposal tabled. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the second vote, 133 present, 78 against 19. The motion was accepted. Now, then, President Babiš will speak with priority rights, as has been announced. I, my colleagues, would like you to move your conversations into the lobby so that you can keep your voice down so that we can hear the performances of the colleague... I'm begging you once more to keep your voice down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u4	Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, you may feel that since the revolution, for example, the ODS has influenced our country most. And we often talk about it, but if I asked you who was in government the longest since the revolution, I don't know if you'd guess. Do you know who that was? KDU-ČSL. So imagine that KDU-ČSL has been in government for over 18 years. More than 18 years! And ODS 12.7. Now I don't want to judge who caused the damage. But it's fascinating. And I asked Mr. Jurečka last time not to hit me. She's approaching the land of the breadwinner. I'm not gonna talk about licking gold digger here, but I don't understand why the minister here is talking about looking at the results of the entire Agrofert holding, and he says that if Andrej Babiš wanted to, he would have had some effect on it. Andrej Babiš, if he wanted to, they'd lock him up, you'd be waiting for it! I mean, ever since your reign started, you've been telling all your subordinates - no, Agrofert! Red! The largest number of checks. Financial administration only controls Agrofert! The police only deal with Babiš and Agrofert! I'm still going to the police, your system. You're the subordinates, you're the employees, you don't even... How do I put it? That you're just being brutal with them. I know the stories of you throwing them away from work. Because when Babiš was in government, he found out he was a good clerk, and he got the kiss of death. So Mr. Jurečka, who knows well, knows well that I have no influence on this, yes, and he knows well that the subsidies... you're just doing everything you can to damage the company. And that Vodňan poultry had a profit? Well, I guess she did. She invested a billion dollars, reduced energy prices. And most importantly, the watery chicken is good quality. Vodňany chicken eats Czech grain. He doesn't eat Ukrainian grain, often contaminated. I recommend to all Members to visit the pump at the branch in Pruhonica, where they have it. Vodňan chicken, it's quality and it's great. Vodňany chicken eats Czech grain. By the way, the Czech Republic is the only country that accepts Ukrainian grain. Hungary, Poland, Slovakia do not want. So what happens? When I see those genius commentators on TV. He says there's a danger of hunger! What's that? U.N. Chief, I know him, too. No comment. There's no hunger. Čech will eat Ukrainian grain and Czech grain will eat in Africa. Because the grain is going to go to Hamburg and that's where it's going to go to the ship. Not in Odessa. I can't believe the way people in this media space perform here who don't understand it at all. [[14.10 hours]] So I understand that your ruthless struggle against Babiš and you won the election on that. But the Jurečka can't take it! And he's still gonna talk about that Agrofert. He knows that we have the largest concentration of chains in Europe, and the chains decide how much the chicken costs. They decide. So, Mr. Jurečka, really, leave me alone. Why are you talking about this? I'd like to see your property confession. Show how much your mistress, to whom you have transferred the farm, what the economic results are. Tell me what you bought the harvester for. And you're bragging about cutting the grain on that harvester. And is it true that some farmers give you good prices for cutting? Is it true that someone contributed to the combine? And why are you cutting it off? You don't have a conflict of interest? Just Babiš? I really don't understand why you're attacking me. I'm loaded on you. You've always abused that post, all the Classes and all that stuff, you've been walking all over the place, and now you're texting me as a pensioner with a pension of 22,000, how great you are, how you've increased my pension. Thank you for that. Now you've robbed me of 7,000 this year. Yeah, I have a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I warn you that the agenda for this meeting concerns a very different matter than what you are talking about here. So I want to lead you to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u6	Right, yes. Madam President, Mr Jurečka, when he spoke of Agrofert, was this about pensions? You didn't tell him that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u7	I wasn't running a meeting at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u8	Then don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u9	I wasn't running the meeting at the time. I'm just leading you to stick to the point we're discussing at this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u10	Yes. You have the same meter as the media. Now CNN was quoting a torn statement, I don't know what year. I get it. Try to educate your coalition partner, let him not talk about Agrofert, let him tell us how he has a conflict of interest, why he cut crops when he is a minister. He transferred the farm, so let him show us everything. Where he bought the harvester, how much he bought the harvester, who he mowed, how much he mowed for. And it'll be fine. It'll be transparent. So once again, Mr. Jurečka is a politician. He was an average salesman of Agro 2000, made maybe a quarter of what he makes, so he decided to go into politics. He's been there a long time. I was with him in the government, I know who he is, okay? So again, I'm asking him to leave Babiš alone and leave Agrofert alone. He has nothing to do with him. Mr. Jurečka should be glad there's some Agrofert who saved most of the food companies that were bankrupt. And in 2022, he made $5 billion in taxes, social contributions, and health contributions. And I would like to call on the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Výborný here, to publish all the agricultural companies receiving the subsidy, the percentage of subsidies to their sales and their contributions. Let's see it. Let's see it. And stop lying. Agrofert took 5 billion. He was pumping claim subsidies. You've wiped everything out. You'd like to liquidate that company in that holy fight against Babiš. But you're not gonna take me out. You'd like to arrest me, yes, permanent prosecution, police, everything. That's your mainstream! That's your mainstream. Let's see it, Minister. I know you don't understand. And if you're taking pictures with that cow, please, not in a suit. I was dealing with Růža, that's our pig, the wild boar on the farm, it's a success, yeah, so try to get dressed for it, to the cow. Like that bitch doesn't like the suits. That's where all the other muggers go. So I'd really like it if you guys wouldn't be here against me. I'm loaded. I have a good memory. And just give me a break, that firm. Be glad they're here. The company is parked in Bohemia. They feed 40,000 people. And how many families. What are you guys up to? Why is this Jurečka saying that I'm having an effect on this? No, I have no influence. I don't. You destroyed Czech agriculture. The ODS allowed the land to be sold to foreigners. ČSSD couldn't handle the subsidies. That's why he's here. And there's the highest concentration of strings. That's your work! So much for Mr. Jurečka. I'd like him to focus on his work. Now it's the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to focus on the fact that there aren't people here to work, that a lot of people here are basically working black, and that he's going to go pick those jobs offices. To take care of his resort. It's the hardest resort. And he probably doesn't mind that the resort - and he's the first minister to act against seniors! Normally against seniors. It's not a reform. None. Well, it's so much for Mr. Jurečka. I hope he understands. If not, I'm ready, I'm loaded like I said. Well, I was going to tell the Prime Minister, since he's already put on that poster that he's pushing those suppliers, so I, Prime Minister, can visit all of Agrofert's companies, try pushing them. They'll be happy to accept you, and they'll be happy to explain to you what your government is doing wrong. Well, since you're bragging about inflation, Prime Minister, you're still the third worst. Third worst you still are. Bronze medal. So inflation Luxembourg 1 %, Belgium 1,6, Spain 1,6, Denmark 2,4, Greece 2,8, Cyprus 2,8, Finland 4.1. That's Eurostat. Eurostat, not a pen. Not a pen. I don't know if the chief of staff is going to the government. I think it's useless, but it's good, so you sold it. You're still the third worst, Prime Minister. 11.2, you haven't done anything about inflation. The EU average is 6.4 and the euro area average is 5.5 in inflation. So you caused inflation. You didn't do anything for people, you cashed in 260 billion in favor of the budget, and you don't give a shit about people. And you're still dealing with Babiš and Jurečka Agrofert. It's really unbelievable. And, of course, the media, the media, they treat us completely differently than they do you. He's still rooting for you. I think even the blind can see it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-000-000.u11	We will therefore now vote on the entire proposal for the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering an interest in signing off, which is why I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. Once the number of entries in the hall is settled, we will vote on the agenda of the meeting... The number of entries is now coming to a standstill. I am now opening the vote on the agenda for the meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3, 112 in attendance, for 95, against 10, the proposal was accepted. The agenda has therefore been approved and we will therefore proceed to the only item on the agenda:
