ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u1	100. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and other related laws (the House Print 366/ - Third Reading) I beg you, Mr Martin Kupka has already taken the position for the plaintiff at the rapporteur's table, and I will also ask the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mr Ondřej Lochman. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 366/3. It was delivered on 19 May 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 366/4. And I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? I suppose that's the case. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important change in road traffic rules, which aims to ensure greater safety on the Czech road and highway network. It is aimed at ensuring the form of legislation, which is simpler, which is clear, which also brings preventative elements in addition to repressive elements. Which bets on the fact that if the standard is well built, so that it is logical to be understandable, to punish higher penalties, indeed, the most serious offenses that can result in serious injuries with lasting consequences, or even death, that these are exactly the steps that can then lead to a change in the behaviour of drivers. What this proposal brings is a simplification of the point system, where new offences will be classified only in three categories compared to the current five. This means the most serious - six-point, moderate - four-point, and then two-point offenses. It will be so clear that the principle applies twice and enough to the most serious offences. There is an increase in sanctions, and this is already on-the-spot in block proceedings, as well as in administrative proceedings. It is an answer to the shift of sanctions in all the surrounding states, and at the same time it is an effort, as I mentioned, to point out that the most dangerous offences must really be punished in this respect in a more serious way. On the contrary, we bring a reduction in penalties for the least serious ones, which pose no risk. Thus, in my view, a state is to proceed to ensure that the public is not so called by hand, but to draw attention to the real serious risks and adapt it to the system of administrative punishment. That's one of the basic principles we come up with. [[10.00 hours]] Another of these serious principles is the greater enforcement of law. We're putting a lot more emphasis on punishing misdemeanors on the spot. We also know from experience in the world that sanctions on the spot in the case of traffic offences have the greatest effect and the most impact is on undisciplined drivers and drivers who are not responsible. We really want to take advantage of the debate that leads to this law in advance, in order to draw attention to the new things that we bring, and indeed to the risks that are taking place on the Czech roads. At the same time, along with this proposal, which brings about a whole range of changes - I mentioned those basic principles - we also bring in a number of significant simplifications from the point of view of administration. If we succeed today, drivers in the Czech Republic will not have to carry a driver's license and registration certificate in the Czech Republic from 1 January next year. It is another important step towards digitization and towards a more welcoming state. We bring more news, for example, which means creating a shared zone as an important new urbanist element inspired by good practice and the best examples in the world, where places where people move with a greater frequency, in different modes of transport from pedestrian to cycling, to public to individual, so that the arrangement of architectural, urbanist and basic support in the law succeeded in creating spaces where fashions treat each other as much as possible and people respect each other as possible in traffic. I will not mention all the amendments, but I will still comment on a few of them. I would also like to mention as one of the key amendments the possibility of providing and simplifying parking for providers of off-road social services. It is parking except that it should make it easier to help those most needed in the company, and it is often the provision of this assistance that has a number of obstacles in the area of operation itself. I will mention one of the things that has already come into this proposal in the submitted material itself, that is, on the one hand, a reduction in penalties for bad parking where the car does not cause any more serious danger or risk or traffic restrictions, and, on the other hand, tightening the penalty where bad parking can endanger traffic, block in the case of cities and so on. I will mention the specific proposals that subsequently aroused a rather steep response, and very unfair. This is an opportunity to reach the destination for unloading the truck drivers of freight transport during driving bans. The proposal followed one essential to ensure that drivers who have a whole range of very strict rules over them, their driving time is recorded in the tachograph and are obliged to observe both daily driving breaks and weekly, so that when the traffic in Europe gets complicated, so that they can visit the families especially on Friday without any further difficulties. Given the obstacles they are struggling with, this is a measure that would not in any way complicate transport in the Czech Republic. We have enough factual evidence pointing to a maximum of hundreds of vehicles, and in fact, it would only mean mitigating the negative effects of traffic on professional drivers. At the same time, if this debate has spread to whether we are not recording this proposal to carriers, we are not recording more dangers on the roads, so I want to make it clear that together with the police, we are putting together more - over the 22 sections of the truck overtaking ban - another 30 sections where this rule will apply to increase safety. At the same time, I guarantee that in the next year there will be a total of 13 fast-track scales on the Czech motorway network, which will ensure respect for the basic rules of road traffic. At the same time, I will mention that there is also an adjustment in the consolidation package, which will make a significant contribution to this, because the revenue from sanctions for overloaded trucks shifts from 15 to 30 percent for municipalities and cities with extended scope as one of the key elements. I will mention another amendment, knowing that it also faces opposition from a part of the public and also from the Chamber of Deputies. However, he was guided to create conditions especially in public transport so that we could maintain what is among the key public services, and this is an extension of the possibility of driving buses at short distances of up to 50 kilometers by drivers from 18 years to over. With the fact that we also discussed this measure with carriers, who say that it would obviously mean very serious, very significant assistance to them, but at the same time it would be accompanied by a much more demanding training for those drivers. This is something they would logically provide because they are responsible for the quality of public transport. Finally, I want to make it clear that the form of the proposal in those fundamental principles should pass today's House negotiations. It is a contribution to bringing the Czech Republic closer to practice in other countries. It is a significant step to avoid unnecessary loss of lives on the roads. It is a significant contribution to greater road safety. It is the intersection of expert debate at the level of the Council of the Government on Road Safety, which is the result of debates with many experts. For example, many of these amendments also provide a reasonable response to driving school conditions and simplification of certain procedures in the case of driving schools. For example, we will not require a five-day distance from a failed driver test. We see as crucial the fact that the law has a significant response at this point in time to the media, and the way in which the law is debated brings key principles to public awareness. Our effort is to present the law in the coming months so that the information that is now reaching people at that time will in itself have a significant effect, a significant effect on the behaviour of drivers on the Czech roads. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u3	Thank you, too. I am now opening up a debate in which there are five registered at third reading so far. It is now Mrs Zuzana Ožanová who is the first to sign up. Mr Stanislav Blaha is also reporting. Madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with one thing that concerns what the Minister said about bringing news - a shared zone. I said in my dealings with the Minister that it would be appropriate for the shared zones to be limited in the sense that they should not be on the roads. Because when I saw the designs that architects imagined, they planned shared zones at the biggest intersections, and so on, thinking that if trams, pedestrians, cars, cyclists combined, it would improve road safety and mutual consideration. For me it is problematic precisely because trams, pedestrians, just all modes of transport should not be along with the tram ride. Everyone sets an example at Palladio here in Prague. But all you have there are pedestrians and trams, and even so, when I'm on that tram, or I'm there as a pedestrian, it's not a completely clear and safe situation. If you add bikers and cars to that, that would be pretty inconspicuous. One thing is that the tram really doesn't have anywhere to go and it has a significantly longer braking path than any other means. That is why I will not support this proposal, even if my colleagues support it. It's purely technical, because I don't think trams should be included in shared zones. About the other thing. I'm not going to be discussing the proposals I've made, I'm going to be talking a little bit more generally. Most people don't realize that there's a scooter from the point of view of the law, even the electric scooter. That is why they say that we would support some of the proposals if they were also about scooters. Colleagues, co-workers, scooter is a bicycle for the purposes of the law, even the electro. [[10.10 hours]] So much for judging whether or not you will vote in favour of some amendments. I have put forward amendments that have caused very turbulent reactions, and do you know what I have learned from these reactions? That cyclists don't know the rules of road traffic and they don't know the current law. Because when I made an amendment that leaked and returned the previous situation regarding the use of cycle paths, I would like to read the current text. Everyone says they don't have to ride the bike trails, they have the right to ride where they want to go, where they decide. Colleagues, colleagues, it's not true. I'd say, walkers are supposed to use the sidewalk, no one else is allowed, and cyclists aren't allowed to use the bike paths. I allow myself to read the current text so that the cycling public knows that although I want to change it slightly, they still have a duty to ride those bike paths. It is Article 57 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning If a lane is established for cyclists, a reserved lane for cyclists, a cycling path or a lane for cyclists is established at the crossroads with controlled traffic and a defined space for cyclists, the cyclist shall use them in a given location and direction unless this would endanger the safety or continuity of road traffic. - I just wanted the word, excuse me, "lazy." Because if it's dangerous to use them, then of course a person, when there's an obstacle or suddenly there's a bunch of people going down a bike path that doesn't go there, can't use it, so of course he can't use it and can go elsewhere. But since cyclists explain it in a way that they can drive wherever they want, I just wanted to get it back to the way it was. So, for the cycling public, it still doesn't apply that you're not obliged to use bike paths. You're obliged to use them. Only in limited cases - but unfortunately you think that whenever you think - you can go elsewhere. So much for what I found out. To the ignorance of the rules - I'd say I don't know how you do, but when I walk down the sidewalk and somebody cries at me like I'm walking on the sidewalk and he wants to go through - no! The cyclist or the scooter driver has nothing to do on the sidewalk. Bike on the crossroads, today the pedestrian leading the bike can go there, but not that there is a bike on the pedestrian crossings. I believe that there would be a place here rather than a repression of greater awareness by Besip and the Ministry of Transport, because the ignorance of regulations especially in this group is quite significant and believes that anyone who draws attention to existing regulations is their enemy. It's not like that. There are rules for everyone. Road safety anarchy has nothing to do with communications. Now I'm gonna go to one... I would like you to think about at least one of my four amendments, and this concerns helmets. Everyone calls me, or when they write to me, they say I limit their personal freedom. I might ask the question: are you limited to personal freedom by using seat belts in your car? I don't think it's a security element. Until a few years ago, the use of the belt was not mandatory. Then even when the point system was introduced, points were awarded behind the seat belts. Many drivers, I have experienced in my practice, so-called 12 points only on strips, because they were not used to using them. Did anyone consider it a restriction on personal freedom that we must use this security element as well? Do bikers consider it a personal restriction that they have to wear helmets? Yes, they don't want to kill themselves, so most of them know why they should have helmets. Another interesting thing was if I have, even if I'm not the Ministry, some statistics and stuff. So I'd like to say that if anyone wants to, they're looking. And the center of transport research has done research on this issue by helmets. I took the liberty of sending all members of the Transport Sub-Committee a link to this site. The research involved examining the autopsy protocols of deceased cyclists who simply lost their lives following a confrontation. And the influence of helmets was examined - pathologists examined it, not traffic experts. And you know what they found, coworkers, colleagues? 37 percent would survive if they had helmets. I believe that's an extremely high number. All it took was 37 percent of those dead cyclists wearing a helmet on their heads, and they'd be alive. That's what the pathologists and the studies of the Transport Research Center have done. Then ask me why I'm making such a proposal. Everyone, the bike public is screaming that I'm against them. I wanted to show with my amendments that - yes, you are screaming, 1.5 metres and so forth, but the most important security element, such as a helmet, nobody cares and believes that it merely restricts them to personal freedom. 37 percent would survive if it had a helmet. As we are obliged to use belts, I think we should be obliged to use cycling helmets. Ask the doctors who have to come to the wounded, or bring them to the hospital. Of course, the helmet doesn't always protect them in devastating internal organs and all that, but with the normal fall, there's a better chance of survival so that the man doesn't just lose his life. You know, that's what surprised me a lot about cyclists, that's what bothers them. I understand bikesharing, the reason. But I think those lives are pretty important. And for me, bikesharing, we have a developed network of public transport - and forgive me, I will be as rough as possible: more than 40 passengers on a tram than 40 cyclists on the road. It's really better for me in terms of safety and transportation. I myself use mass transportation, I take the train, I take the tram, the trolleybus - for outside Prague, trolleybuses exist - and I see what's going on. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] I beg you not to comment aloud on my statements, because it is truly undignified to this House. I ask that the President intervene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u5	I, Madame, would, of course, intervene, but it is now quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u6	But I heard an inappropriate reaction to my speech. Unlike you. Yeah, one more, please, in the e-mails that the bike angry public wrote to me, was another argument, and that I should lose weight. I'm sorry, I really don't know what this has to do with it, but I thought I'd mention this argument, really, really, really important. I will not comment on my other amendments because I am fully aware that they will not pass through this House. However, I beg you, colleagues, to consider whether it is more important to bikesharing or the 37 percent that could have survived. I think this number is worth thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u7	Thank you, Madame. There were two factual points. Mr Vojtěch Munzar is the first to speak with the facts, then Mr Milan Brázdil is prepared and then we have one priority right. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u8	Thank you, Madam President, good day, colleagues and colleagues. By your means, I would like to respond to my colleague Ožanová's performance. And maybe from experience, because I like to ride a bike. Of course, wearing a helmet is safer, which is why when a person plans to ride a bicycle, mostly a responsible person has one. On the other hand, there are situations, and you mentioned these city bikes, which can be used not only in Prague, or who goes on vacation, we can use them in some larger cities and abroad. There you simply do not plan to use it in advance, and with your amendment, we would limit the possibility. [[10.20 hours]] But a third point that is more important to me. We just, and I say it here in many laws, I'll say it in your speech - we just can't replace each individual's personal responsibility. We can't. We cannot constantly tighten regulation and determine how people should live. I understand you're pointing out and saying the hazard numbers here, on the other hand, it's the personal responsibility of each individual. And that's why I say for myself, when I go out on a bike with my family, I always wear a helmet when I use the city bike, so sometimes I don't, too, because I just don't always carry it under my armpits, and I don't expect to suddenly decide to use the city bike. Let us balance the individual's personal responsibility in these proposals and do not want to replace it with ever more, more stringent regulations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u9	Thank you for keeping time. And next, Mr. Milan Brázdil will speak with his own deed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u10	Thank you for the floor. On the contrary, I'd like to support the helmet. You said, you're riding a bike, Mr. Ambassador, through that it's good, I like to ride a bike and a lot and a helmet just, it's an integral part. Why are these people dying? You know, when you sprain your leg after you fall, you have some muscle bleed, or you break something from your bones, it's all fixable, and it doesn't make you die. However, as soon as you bleed into the vessel, where there's basically no hematoma to move, you're almost, I'd say, unconscious within an hour, after an hour and a half, you stop breathing, and actually the only rescue of the person is that they drill his skull, and it's gonna make a hole in it, and that hole is gonna drain the hematoma. And this didn't have to be. All it took was this guy... 90 percent would help with the helmet, the helmet. Right, so the helmet, when you go from point A to point B in Prague and you see the bike you want to borrow, we don't wear it, but there are helmets, helmets that are like that, remember how athletes used to have only leather on wheels. Even this can save a man's life. Okay, you say you're hacking into personal freedoms. Yeah, but in that case, if he does, then you should pay for the health care? That's his personal freedom, he decided to do the job of a neurosurgeon and an ambulance and maybe other people's problems. Everything ends, it starts somewhere, but I think we could move on to the fact that helmets are sophisticated today, light, pleasant, maybe not fit someone, that's an argument, I want to look beautiful. I'm all for helmets. It's a good element that saves people's lives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u11	Thank you again for keeping time. Once again, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová wants to respond, and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u12	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I will respond briefly to my colleague Munzar, through you, and I have already mentioned this in my speech. Seat belts in the vehicle. It's not about personal responsibility either, it's about duty. This duty is in the law. It's common for most of us to feed, and it's a legal obligation. Why? It may be our responsibility to fly out the front window or the side window in the event of impact, that centrifugal force pushes us through the window, and then we kill each other. That could also be about our responsibility. Also, take the technical competence of the vehicles; at present, you can hardly even buy a vehicle without large safety features. Why? Why wouldn't it be possible to produce vehicles that don't have so many security features? I mean, it's on the personal responsibility of the vehicles? In fact, the shape of the bodies is currently being made so that the possible collision of the vehicle with the pedestrian results in as little health as possible for the pedestrians and so on. These are also safety features which need to be demonstrated by the approval of the technical competence of the vehicles. But the best comparisons are belts, compulsory belts - they're also in the law. I believe that, as are compulsory belts, helmets should be mandatory. It really is a number for me... I know we don't agree. [[Member Munzar nods his head from the bench disagreeably.]] I know we don't agree, but 37 percent is really too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u13	Thank you again for keeping time. And with his factual, factual response, Mr Martin Kolovratník will speak, Mr Jiří Horák will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. I can't even use those two minutes. But with these helmets, I will say that paradoxically or surprisingly, but here my vision of the world is different from that of party jurisdiction, and my position will be the same as that of Mr Munzar. Zuzana Ožanová and I have already explained this. It's true that the statistics are relentless, that the numbers aren't happy, good or pleasant, but I guess they really do apply here, at least for me personally, just the personal responsibility of each of us. And maybe I'd like to compare it to a debate in this House this time of year about the admissibility of alcohol in watermen, where we've also been thinking: if someone is committing something, has some action or behavior, but threatens only themselves, the state should not regulate it, order it all and watch over it. And maybe from some practical point of view of the normal life in the countryside, in the villages, the older lady, the aunt, the grandmother who goes somewhere 100, 200 meters to the food store in the morning to force her to wear a helmet, so we can all imagine that maybe this isn't how we want to interfere with people's lives. And what was probably the most important thing for me in the decision-making, in the view of the matter, was the attitude of the cycling associations, AutoMat and others, the cycling public, who asked us not to put this into the law, that we would make the mobility more difficult for people, and that we might even be able to drive them out of those bikes, which I think would be a shame. So as much as a party colleague of Zuzka Ožanová, I will not support this proposal here. And I understand the fellow paramedics who see the injuries, and I believe that most of the House will be against it in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u15	Thank you for keeping time. And we still have the factual rapporteur there as the last one, which is then signed up with priority rights. So it's factual. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u16	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to limit it to de facto so that I don't abuse so much. I just wanted to respond to the fact that from the point of view of the shared zones, we discussed it in the committee, there is an agreement from the Guarantee Committee, and I believe that when we looked at the methodology that is ready, it is discussed there and there is also an agreement from the Police of the Czech Republic, it can work well. I would just like to draw attention to such a paradox today, when, for example, zones are created in cities, which are pedestrian or different square adjustments, so they often cannot use the regulation that fits them exactly. So maybe you're going to the square, you've got a sign of a residential area. If we all remember what's in the residential zone, it's probably Daddy playing football with the boy, which, of course, doesn't sit in the square. So we're just showing on this that we're actually missing a partial adjustment in this legislation, and the shared zone is just bringing in one of the proposals that can deal with it. Then I would also like to respond to the fact that we will definitely not solve the ignorance of the laws, for which we really set up, for example, the BESIP that is working on this. And I agree with Mrs Ožanová, through Madam President, that cyclists should not be on the sidewalks, they should not go there, today we are already ordered. And we're really not gonna figure this out. We need to continue to spread this awareness here, explaining infinitely how cyclists should behave in order to avoid clashes with pedestrians. And one last thing about the helmets. I would really just like to say that we would be the second country in the EU after Finland to implement this. We'd be quite an exception. And I think we really shouldn't order people around here: you should have a helmet here. After all, seat belts in it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u17	Time. Mr rapporteur, you have chosen a factual...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u18	So maybe I'll log in one more time, it didn't work out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u19	Please. Thank you for keeping time. And we have three apologies that have passed in the meantime - Mr Roman Bělor, from 15 a.m. to 15 a.m. for work reasons, Mr Jiří Hájek, from 16 a.m., also for work reasons, and Mrs Ivana Mádlová, from 15 to 18 a.m., apologizes for work reasons. And now I see that you want to respond with one more factual response. It's non-standard, but please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u20	Thank you. I'll just finish it. I just wanted to say, I understand the concern about the cyclists and the ones where the deaths, unfortunately, happen on the bikes. It is, of course, 37 of those who unfortunately have become victims of cycling or an unfortunate fall, i.e. 37 really only from this list. I'd like to say it's really everyone's responsibility here. [[10.30 hours]] And compared to the seat belts in the car, it's a bit of a glitch, 'cause when you get in the car, if you want to take the car, the seat belts are there, of course. You just don't always have that helmet with the wheel, especially, and it was said here, with the shared wheels. And thank you, Mr Kolovratník, I have already set this as an example, just in those villages, when people approach by a kilometer, will we be there someone who rides on his jigsaw puzzle a kilometer into consumption or 500 meters, wanting to fine for not wearing a helmet? It is his responsibility and he should take care of his health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u21	Thank you. And this is how we return to standard logged in. Mr Stanislav Blaha is signed in there, Mr Antonín Tesařík will then be prepared and I will pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Please, the rapporteur has dealt with what he has already wanted to say. So please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u22	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to comment here on several amendments that I have read in the second reading after consulting the Ministry of Transport and which I consider important because they aim to improve the long-term problems that we are dealing with in transport. It is a total of nine amendments, including to abolish the obligation for drivers to carry a physical driving licence from January next year, not on the original date of 1 July 2025. I will not read the content of all nine, but I dare to mention two of them, which have recently been the subject of political and media debates. This is an amendment E7 and E8. The first one, that means E7, is intended to allow trucks to unload and return to the location of the company or home. I must strongly decline that this would be an attempt to get the trucks back on the highway on Sundays and on holidays, as some Members commented on the proposal. I point out that the proposed change concerns a few million of all trucks that will pass through our home every day. 200,000 people can drive a truck with us. 50,000 trucks go through the Czech Republic every day. Much of them use our highways as transit to the surrounding countries. Such drivers shall not be exempted. Again, the exception only affects those who arrive at the place of unloading or return from unloading to the registered office of the company or home to the family. We're talking about lower hundreds of trucks out of the 50,000, as I mentioned here. Truck drivers are currently not allowed to take the highway and the first-class road on Sundays and holidays between 13 and 22 pm, and on summer holidays between 7 and 13 pm and Fridays between 17 and 21 pm. In practice, this often means that Czech truck drivers stand on Friday evening for example 20 kilometers from their home and family, but they must not reach them. Instead, they spend the weekend in a crowded parking lot or wait tens of hours at the border and rest points that are long-term overloaded with us. When there is no room on them, trucks literally overflow to exits and exits from motorways or to each slightly expanded place along the roads of the first, second, but also third class. This would be helpful in approving the proposals. Alternatives now have two and the first one is the completion of the journey on the second and third class roads. At the same time, they often pass through municipalities instead of taking a shorter stretch along the highway. The second option, which of course everyone is trying to do, is to make it to the finish line, which means even at the cost of risking, stress and, of course, it leads to a threat to all other road users. Therefore, I want to allow drivers an exception that would apply only if the driver unloaded the cargo in the Czech Republic and subsequently arrived at his residence or residence of the Czech carrier so that they could spend the weekend with the family. In the media, fear was resonating that trucks would go empty across the Czech Republic or that the exception would be widely abused. No carrier will pay for long empty journeys in its senses, just as it will not tolerate attempts to circumvent the rules. The police of the Czech Republic will, like so far, control trucks on motorways. The place of unloading and the premises of the carrier are simply traceable and repeated infringements may result in a ban on the activity and this will not please both the driver himself and certainly not his employer. And what I promise from the proposal, I will recall four main arguments. First, the truck driver is in short supply in the Czech Republic. We lack over 25,000 drivers, while we all benefit from their hard work. Without trucks, there would simply be nothing to buy, construction would stop because there wouldn't be materials, factories would stop because there wouldn't be anything to make. It wouldn't be time for our shipments that we ordered. In short, we often look through our fingers at truck drivers, but without their work, our world would slow down or stop completely. If we can grant Czech drivers an exception that will significantly improve their working conditions and at the same time does not affect most of the other users of traffic, we should at least have a serious debate about this. The fact that this proposal primarily aims to support drivers confirms that it was supported by drivers themselves through the Trade Union of Transporters. I therefore do not understand the statements made by some Members who claim that the proposal is directed against the interests of drivers themselves. Secondly, and this is equally important, the proposal will partially ease the resting time on roads that have been overfished in the Czech Republic for a long time. Many drivers are so inappropriately parked on motorways in a detachable lane, resting places, or even downhills from the road. This amendment will not solve the problem situation and solve the problem situation with the rest completely, but it will help them until all the planned rest periods on important sections are completed. Thirdly, a reduction in the number of trucks in the municipalities and on the second and third class road, where they will have no reason to go for nothing to find their way to the finish line. And finally, fourth, safer traffic for everyone, because truck drivers aren't going for their lives on Friday to make their way home. And I would like to stress what the Minister has already said, at the same time, the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic, is preparing another 30 sections, where trucks will be forbidden to pass, which will also reduce the very negative phenomenon. And if I'm talking to drivers on our highways, the most they're complaining about is inappropriate overtaking trucks. As I have repeated many times, this is not a self-saving solution, but the current situation would have helped significantly in at least these four areas. Our task is primarily to complete the missing infrastructure, new resting rooms, high-speed lines and search for ways to convert freight transport to tracks. But the hand on the heart, at this point, we just don't have the capacity for these alternatives. We are paying off the debts of previous governments, which have not invested as much in transport as would be appropriate, and we are inheriting the problems that we have to deal with now. The second amendment - under the designation E8 - proposes to enable regular passenger buses on the route to be operated less than 50 kilometres from the age of 18 instead of the current 21 years. It is based on the good practice of many European countries and, above all, responds to the alarming lack of bus drivers, which may result in some cities and municipalities not having secured existing bus connections. At present, the vast majority of urban public transport operators and regional transport across the Republic are struggling with a shortage of drivers, and it is therefore difficult to ensure transport service in the territory of the city or municipality. Currently around 5,000 bus drivers are missing. This is demonstrated, on the one hand, by the fact that existing drivers are being exploited to the maximum, as permitted by the Labour Code, but it is still quite common that they serve two long shifts immediately in order to cover the service of carriers, because the carrier does not have to cover all lines to send, for example due to the disease of one or two drivers. The current legislation allows for a driving licence for vehicles of category D or D+E at 24 years of age. The earlier profit of this authorisation is allowed in two exceptions. Firstly, from the age of 23 it is possible to drive vehicles of these groups if the driver is professionally qualified and has received initial training to the basic extent. Secondly, driving licences for these groups can be obtained from 21 years of age if the driver is professionally qualified and has received extended training. If he has received initial training only to the basic extent, only regular passenger vehicles on the route of a line less than 50 kilometres may drive. In addition, a category D1 or D1+E driving licence can be obtained as standard at the age of 21. [[10.40 hours]] The proposed amendment proposes to reduce the age limit to which a D1, D1+E or D+E licence can be obtained, over 18 years of age, and that from 18 years of age it will only be possible to drive those vehicles if the driver is professionally qualified and has received extended entry training, that is to say 280 hours, only if it is a regular passenger transport vehicle and the route of the line does not exceed 50 kilometres. The other rules remain in place. Concerns about the risk of traffic safety, which I've seen in numerous numbers over the past week, are therefore not appropriate. First, teaching and training will be really intense and thorough and specifically a period twice as long as for older drivers. Second, drivers will drive at a low average speed because they will all be in municipalities on routes within 50 kilometres. This reduces the risk of high speed accidents. However, it also decreases by passing through professional training, which reduces these risks dramatically. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the driver will be dangerous because he is only 18 years old. He's a professional with professional training. The accidents of professional drivers are statistically far lower than those of ordinary drivers. The statistics provided by the Ministry of Transport show that bus drivers have only a marginal share in the fault of serious traffic accidents, roughly 1%. This also applies to the youngest category of bus drivers, i.e. 21-year-olds. Younger drivers therefore do not suffer significantly more often than their older colleagues. This can be expected to be the case even if the age limit for driving buses on short lines is shifted to 18 years. If a young driver decides to pursue a driver's career and undergo training, he may be expected to understand the responsibility associated with such a job. In addition, the employer, in his own interest, will not put anyone behind the wheel of the bus who could just give a hint of risk to passengers who will be transported. Another simplification is that it will ride on a well-known route, where it is possible to pass under the supervision of an instructor, who evaluates the newcomer and shows him potentially problematic places. The driver can fully drive these lines because most of the passengers and the public transport even all are seizing themselves and not distracting the driver. In addition, many public transport buses already have technologies that assist them while driving and enable them to travel safer than if they were driving a passenger car. Driving buses within 50 kilometers allows European Union legislation and has proved to be successful in several countries. Good experience with young bus drivers is reported by Denmark, Sweden, Ireland or Germany. I believe that the Czech Republic would also benefit from this change and, at the same time, this change would improve the attractiveness of the profession that we need to ensure links in the regions, improve urban public transport and relieve transport in cities throughout the Czech Republic. Finally, I would like to add that the working performance of professional drivers in our country regulates very strict legislative standards. The lack of drivers makes it perfectly common today that the bus driver gets to work in the morning before 6:00 p.m. and ends in the evening around 10:00 p.m. Although he has partial leave during the day, it is at a time when other family members are in normal work and at school. This adverse regime discourages drivers from working and is a reason to leave even though the overall financial income of drivers is very interesting for some carriers. The current system also discourages, of course, women's drivers, but, of course, it is also demotivating for men. At this point, I want to thank you for your attention. I am aware of reality, and I quite expect that neither of these more closely commented amendments will receive the support of the House today. This is my last attempt to do something to try to think about the rationality of these measures before the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u23	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Ožanová is registered. Mr Kolovratník will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u24	Thank you. Mr President, only to Mr Blah. I sympathise with him; that is two of us who believe that our amendments will not pass. On the explanatory note. I'd like to comment on one thing, and that's bus driving since I was 18. And I will comment on this interestingly, I will read one paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the law from the general part and it concerns an assessment of the legal situation in force, including an assessment of the current situation in relation to nondiscrimination in relation to equality between men and women. That's the title of the paragraph, the whole chapter. I quote: Special attention should be paid to the most risky group of road users, which according to traffic accident statistics are young and beginners. These drivers are a risk group mainly due to lack of driving experience, and the factor leading to them being frequent culprits of serious traffic accidents is the fact that they often overestimate their abilities, do not behave sufficiently responsible and fail to estimate and adequately respond to the risks arising from road traffic. I thank the Ministry of Transport and surprisingly fully agree with them, this paragraph from the explanatory memorandum. Thank you, Minister. And that is why I cannot support Mr Blaha's proposal to drive a real bus from the age of 18. It's really a risk group of drivers. The Department of Transport is exceptionally right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u25	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u26	I'm just gonna say a quick word to the trucks when I'm listening to my colleague Blaha's argument. We discussed it at our club, we met with representatives of Česmad. And I agree that the lack of drivers in the Czech Republic is great, that transport companies are troubled and that this needs to be dealt with somehow. But please, not this way and not the way of the parliamentary amendment. We also gave such an answer to the representatives of the association, i.e. Česmad, that we will certainly try to work this out. And I would like to ask the chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee Lochman to agree just to September, to sit here in the House, whether we hold a subcommittee or a seminar, to take Česmad, a representative of the Ministry of Transport, and the Union of Towns and Communities, and look, we will simply find ways of helping these carriers. And it stretches like a red line - infrastructure, rests and so on. We've been over this in the last parliamentary term, and the situation is slowly improving. But I agree that not fast, that we should speed up as if. But please, not this way. And it's also a media reminiscence. When Mr Blaha's journalists asked where he had some analysis, some numbers, he said he didn't have one, that he was working with the Ministry of Transport. Now he's talking about lower hundreds of trucks. And I, folks, for me it's a lex truck, I'd call that. Try to imagine the traffic hell, if it wasn't this year, but next summer, when Germany goes on vacation, when the highways not only in our space, but also in the surrounding area gets thicker, and if we stay with us, and then suddenly you put in lower hundreds of trucks, as the changeling is written, I'm afraid it's a potential hidden back door, that it could be a lot more than hundreds of trucks. And a little irony at the end of the note. Gentlemen, please don't play theatrical with us that it was written by the MP and that he has some arguments here. When I look into the digital footprint of the document, the author is Master Marek Šoustal from the Ministry of Transport. It was written at the Department of Transport, the changeling. At least, Mr. Ambassador and Minister, admit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u27	Thank you for meeting the exact time limit. Next is Mr Koten, then Mr Martin Kukla, Minister Kupka and Mr Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u28	Thank you for the floor. It picked me up a little bit from the chair for one simple reason. Or there are more of these reasons, but I will respond to this reduction in the age limit for the possibility of driving a bus, which therefore drives people. It can be said that group A, or A1, A2 and so on, these are those motorcycles and it is from small motorcycles with small power, low, from 15 years old, then with higher power from 16 years old, then from 18 years old and those strongest motorcycles can drive people up to 24 years old. If I compare it to the fact that the driver is usually on the motorbike alone, and so when I look at some statistics and I find out how many people are dead because they are not yet mature to drive such a powerful machine, then in this comparison, it seems like science fiction to me that the driver, at age 18, would be mentally capable of driving a bus that is disproportionately larger and, more importantly, it's driving people. He doesn't take rocks to the construction site, he doesn't carry anything like that. And even in the case of trucks, there is also an age limit of 21 years for group C. So it really doesn't make any sense to me on that bus, and I wouldn't really go down there with that age limit, because it's just when you compare it to those motorcycles, it's pretty rusty. As far as the truck rides, I don't know, most of you probably drive on the D1 or D10, D11 and other highways, and the situation where you're driving, say, 130 in the left lane and the truck comes in, basically throwing the signal out at the same time, it's also quite common. [[Time.]] I wouldn't recommend it there either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u29	Thank you. Mr. Kukla.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must also respond, through Mr President, to my colleague and his amendments. If we look at the law or the novel, the amendment follows up on the work of our former transport minister Karel Havlíček. I am glad that Minister Kupka, through Mr President, has followed up on the work. The main objective of this proposal is to increase road safety and to make the penalty procedure more effective in breaching the rules. When we look at the two amendments that say that we will allow drivers to drive a bus from 18 years of age, I do not think that this proposal will ensure an increase in safety. The same is true of the second amendment, which says that at the very time when people return from the cottages, from vacations, and the road traffic thickens to let the trucks go. You say it's hundreds of trucks in order, but he and one truck that goes down the road first class and can't be overtaken, so he's gonna make a big mess. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u31	Thank you. Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u32	Just a very brief, factual remark on the level of risk for beginners. We are aware that statistics show that up to 11 percent of accidents cause culprits, just beginning drivers with experience within two years, while this group accounts for 3%. However, I would also like to emphasise that this risk is quite slim from the point of view of professional drivers. Here we compare different approaches, different groups. In the case of professional drivers, they are people who are raised to bear the burden, whether in trucks or in buses. For example, if they attend transport secondary schools, their professional training is really obsessive. Where we are most at risk from the very beginning of drivers, there are typically disco stories, irresponsible behaviors, but this does not coincide with the category of professional drivers, where it is proven to be a very small risk. On the contrary, these are drivers who are responsible throughout those age groups. And if we can track the statistics, they represent a greater risk in this case to drivers in the number of the richest age group from the 45s to the 60s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u33	Thank you. The rapporteur, Lochman, and then again, with Mr Kolovratník in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u34	Thank you. I'll try briefly, too. My colleague has tabled several amendments, I agree with most of them. We didn't find a common ground with those two, but we've been discussing this a very long time. As far as trucks are concerned, I personally believe that the discussions - and very much, because I am from the city where trucks were made, I am from Munich Hradiště, where leagues were produced, and I very much perceive the craft of truckers and I very much perceive how difficult it is. However, if we want to leave them at home on Sunday, then we shouldn't have that exception on Sunday. There are many arguments why I think this is not the right way to go, but I agree that we should continue to discuss with the carriers and the association. I have... Mr Kolovratník, through the President, talked here about bringing together the subcommittee, discussing this further. I've already spoken to Deputy Česmad, we'd be happy to meet you there. However, I do not see this as appropriate now. I understand that the exception could help those drivers on Saturday, but not on Sunday, for example. I think that this proposal should be implemented, or fully adapted. We didn't find a common ground here. As regards bus drivers from 18 years of age, I agree that now there is really a problem with the number of drivers on buses. I think we should deal with this... that there are different ways you can solve this. I agree that we can talk about whether there's going to be any reduction in the boundary, but at the moment we have a trolleybus age 21, train 20, tram 21. We'd reduce the buses to 18. It seems unsystematic to me, which is why I do not support this proposal. At the same time, of course, it is a question of sensitivity to security, but again, it is a matter that we can discuss with colleagues on the subcommittee on transport. Let's talk about it. [[Time.]] At this point, neither of these proposals has my support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u35	Mr. Kolovratník, so far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u36	I'll make it to the D18. A response to the Minister, and factual, unattackable. That's exactly what I said in my previous performance. Let's just say it out loud again, please, on the agenda with President Lochman. Let's work this out and discuss that it will be a consensus between us Members across the spectrum, it may be the second follow-up little amendment to the law, but that's just not the way it's supposed to be. When I was looking at it, when I was thinking about it, I was like, "I'm gonna ask people from practice, from the industry." So I approached another group, the Association of Transport Enterprises, not the regional carriers, but those urban transport companies in the Czech Republic. And they said clearly, we're going to the pool, we need to get into that truckload, there's just not enough of them, but we'd be this young guy -- even if what the minister said from high school, he's already into it -- and so on -- we wouldn't let him into the bus where the people are behind him. So how about having fun - please take it professionally - about the so-called C18, in some way to relieve them or let them go behind trucks or trucks? That's actually gonna loosen up or dismantle the amount of people sitting behind that wheel in those transport companies. There may be another way. Another opinion from the representatives of the driving school. I'm sorry to shoot so many shortcuts here, but 17? We're gonna talk about it a little bit later, he's gonna be driving with the mentor for a long time, so maybe give him this chance, and that's gonna make the L17 more attractive. [[11.00 hours]] So I'm sure the roads are, on which we agree that we might be able to look for a solution, to help. But please - no, I don't want to be ironic, now where it is... whether it was written in the ministry or here at the MP's - but please, let's not go on such an adventure right now. And so far, I have commended that the Minister is such a conservative in the overall preparation of the law, so let's keep the conservative in that philosophy as a whole, let's reject the amendments now, and let's make a public promise here that we'll start working on it in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u37	Thank you. Real remarks have been exhausted, so we can go back to the debate. And I would like to ask Mr Kučera, who has switched and agreed to exchange his appearance with Mr Tesařík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me briefly comment on this amendment to the law and on part of the amendments. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Finance has actually maintained such a balance in this amendment and that the amendment is really needed. This is what I think is very good, very good and that the Ministry of Transport has, in particular, managed to resist such populist pressures, which are mostly common in the preparation of this law, are common, most of which is an effort for such an excessive restriction, which is always called for. If it does not appear in the body of the law, then it is often implemented by means of amendments. This means tightening up, reducing, increasing fines and so on. That, of course, is a matter that has been discussed many times here today. And I am actually leaning towards the fact that, in particular, a person should be responsible for his own conduct, which concerns some of the amendments that have emerged here. I very much appreciate that - because we have discussed this amendment many times actually in the previous two readings, so I would just like to remind you that it is very important and very right that this amendment also concerns young drivers, that is, I will say driver's licenses for the exam, possibly driving with a mentor, and so on, that means that you are engaged in a group of young drivers. I would perhaps just briefly comment on some of the amendments and, in fact, the views of our TOP 09 MEP, which we will support and will not support. It may have already come from my introduction. We will not support such amendments which introduce excessive restrictions. I think that this is a road that does not lead to higher road safety, on the contrary, it only increases restrictions, restrictions on the state that we already have enough. We will not support it, too - in the media it is called the anti-cyclist laws of Mrs. Ožanová. Well, of course we're not gonna support them either. We've already taken one step in the previous novels. We can discuss whether the individual settings are correct or not, but certainly not this way, that is, the way of the amendments. I tend to think that if someone wears a cycling helmet, and I believe that all responsible cyclists wear it, they wear it because they're responsible, not because they're ordered by the law. Just as today the vast majority of skiers wear cycling (?) Helmet, you'll hardly see a skier wearing a hat today, even though someone would order someone to do it. At least not in the Czech Republic. So that's where the attitudes are clear. Maybe I'd like to talk about trucks. This truck debate is quite complicated, it's not simple, and it's really not black and white. That means somebody wants trucks on the road, and somebody wants them, somebody doesn't want them. The freight transport, or the debate over the drivers of the freight transport, is very difficult. The job isn't easy. And indeed, if we want to have goods that will be on our online orders or in hypermarkets, we want to have on time and just in time and in time and so on, then the trucks actually have to drive in some way. It is up to the state to set the traffic and, respectively, the rules so that trucks can ride smoothly and, on the other hand, not to restrict traffic significantly, or even to be a threat to road traffic. The individual amendments, or the amendment relating to the regulation of trucking, deserve greater attention. The matter should be dealt with a little more widely, that is to say, along with other measures that will improve and lead to greater fluency of truck rides on motorways. Here I thought I mentioned it the last time, this is mainly about dynamic traffic management, telematics, that is to say, the management of individual lanes on the motorway, where speed will be reduced, respectively, to one lane, or even to stop individual lanes based on road traffic density, or weather density, or some emergency situation, as is common among our neighbours, for example in Austria. This is a measure that should go hand in hand with the dislodgement of some conditions that allow trucking, in which case it concerns commuting to the place and so on. I am leaning towards this, and one of my previous speakers mentioned here that this amendment could appear at some point soon as an amendment, which will focus directly on truck transport and would just look at this issue a little bit more closely. So I'm leaning towards it. And if such an initiative arises, I'd be happy to get involved, because I think it's right. After that, I'm just going to briefly mention the many discussed buses here today. I think it's right to allow younger bus drivers to drive. If we want to talk about setting some limits and we call for young drivers to be unable or not to have the skills to drive buses or this type of traffic, then we should look hand in hand at the upper age limit, because the upper age limit would also deserve a revision in that case. So here I think that this amendment deserves support, although I understand that this distribution in the Chamber of Deputies may not be entirely in favour of it. Overall, I consider this amendment to the road law to be a very good one and thank the Minister of Finance for treating it this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u39	Thank you. Mr Brázdil came forward with a point of fact and then Mr Kott.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u40	Thank you for the floor. So now we have learned that the TOP 09, through my colleague Kučera, says that it will not support the anticyclist amendments made by my colleague Ožanová. He says it's just a need for everyone to have their own personal responsibility. But it also takes the responsible to take the helmet. Well, you know what? So let's do this - I've got a few minutes, seconds. Guys, get your helmets! It's really not a big deal, it's worth a few crowns. The helmet will save your life if you fall on your head. Not even a helmet, wear gloves. When you fall, you put gloves in front of you, you don't have them scratched. Take all available tools today, protective equipment that will help you when you fall or in some other way just get off the ground to help you. They say it's your responsibility. That's not how the media does it, different groups of people don't do it. You young people could listen. On the skateboard you take a lot of protective equipment and there you drive at a low speed, but on the bike as if you didn't want to, they forgot. And they say we can't put it in there because that's your personal responsibility. While there is no rest, the previous governments are to blame, Mr. Bláha said. And that's why we're making an exception for you. You truckers want to be with your family tonight, go out for a beer, barbecue, and you have a little bit of home. That's not your personal responsibility anymore. There's a deal we can make, we'll make you an exception. That's how much we live here. Once again: All you who sit on a bike, on a scooter, remember that tomorrow is also a day and you want to stay in this world and you want to be healthy and you want to please yourself and your family that you will be fine. And that's gonna help you with a few little things. Just like skiing when you wear a helmet - [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u41	Thank you. Mr Kott, then Mr David Pražák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond, and no offense, to the honourable colleague, Chairman of the agricultural committee Michal Kučera, to the amendment made by Mrs Ožanová. You know, the special purpose roads, where the forest roads actually fall - I am from the Highlands, and we may have lost 80 percent of the forests there, there were mining works going on, now there is foresting and, of course, protection and there will be a long training of the trees - so the technique that moves on those special purpose roads is about what you said here. It's about the two groups having to make a deal. If it is such a way, the slope, where it is virtually impossible to avoid, then it is not possible to observe any protective meters. So, of course, what my colleague put forward here was also based on some discussion between us and the representatives of the Association of Municipal Forest Owners. So it's not something we might have sucked out of our finger, but it really came from some relevant information that we had the opportunity to take over. And the fact that there is no united position in our club on the amendments by my colleague Ožanová is true, but I believe that this is not entirely wrong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u43	Thank you. Mr Pražák, then Mrs Berenika Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u44	Good morning. Only briefly to those bus drivers, since they were 18 years old, a proposal that's out there and I'm sure I won't support. I am not questioning the fact that public transport drivers are not enough, that is absolutely not possible, but it is probably mainly that - and I take it from my own experience in the region - that those drivers are very undervalued for the responsibility they have, and they just don't pay to stay in that sector and they prefer to do something else, even though they have a driver's license for the bus. And it is also from a region where the company has an incentive, it is able to pay the basic salary for four months to the person who will be home and preparing for the driving licence, then pay it and, better yet, stay there for the five years they commit to, to be there, and after five years they will leave anyway. In the worst case scenario, those driver's license graduates are gonna leave early, pay some of the contract fines, 'cause they just don't want to be in that sector because they're miserablely valued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u45	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová, so far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u46	Thank you for your word, I'd just like to speak to my predecessors. We're all definitely drivers, so we're driving. When I'm riding those twos and threes, to be honest, we're all breaking the law. None of us are capable of keeping that three-and-a-half. There's barely two cars that can fit in there, how many times I have to drive into the rigolum, and I'm saying that straight, and really, when cyclists are going there and I'm trying to avoid them, I'm keeping a safe distance, but it's definitely not a foot and a half. So that is why I understand Mrs Ožanová's amendment that there are really roads where it cannot be kept. It won't. We're all just breaking the safety rules because we're not able to hold a meter and a half, but we're keeping a safe distance at least so we don't do anything to that cyclist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u47	Thank you. Mr Hájek, a Member of Parliament, has yet to sign up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u48	Hello, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to respond here to Mrs Peštová, through you. I don't know, I'm on two, I'm on three, I'm on communications, I'm on less than six meters, and there's a car that I have to avoid, and there's a cyclist, so I'm not trying to outrun it at all costs, and I'm not breaking the law. I'm just gonna wait for the car to cross the opposite road and run over the cyclist comfortably with a distance of one-and-a-half meters. [[Fun in the hall.]] So if this is a violation of the regulation, I would recommend that you really step on the brake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u49	Thank you. Mrs Ožanová, then Mrs Peštová. We are still in the regime of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I have to respond to the previous speaker. If you have noticed, in my speech, I have focused on something I consider extremely important in terms of safety, helmets, and I have not expressed myself more than one and a half meters. However, I must respond now. The idea that there's 20 feet of communication all over the place is really good. But where I am, there are local communications three and a half meters wide, and I just can't avoid anyone, and I would always break that rule in any way. And I just don't break the rules. Please, I'm actually going back to discussing how it was here in the last parliamentary term. A colleague here, by the way, from YES, Milan Pour, spoke of switches. They're on newly built roads, but they're not on the older ones. And those aren't even meant to be. There are really local roads in the mountains and the like, in the more remote parts, three and a half metres wide, where vehicles also have to stay away from communication. And it's not just that I'm going to see someone for a few minutes, it's miles and miles. But it's true that it depends on both of them, that it's not just about the driver of the motor vehicle, it's about the driver of the bicycle. Please, the other day, when I was driving on such communication, cyclists were driving against me, they were going up the hill, and I moved there so that I was almost in a ditch, and I stopped so that they wouldn't have to stop up that hill. But it was that they were a few inches away from the mirror and they were going in the opposite direction. There we were unable to do anything without mutual consideration... And no matter what the law says, it's about how we behave, and the mutual consideration in that law is. Please, not all communications are six meters wide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u51	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, then Mr Hájek. I accidentally played it for you earlier, so I'll give you ten seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm trying to get past the cyclist. I'm not running him over, I mean, yeah. First of all. So I'm really trying -- and it's not about me driving, there's a car going against me, there's a cyclist in front of me, and I want to pass at all costs. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about how many times the width of the road is on those twos and threes, because the sidewalks aren't so hard, one can just avoid it, usually the one that's on the slopes, and the other one that's off the slopes can't avoid it, so we're driving two cars when I'm trying to avoid the car that's going against me, so it doesn't have to, or something happens to him. But I'm talking about the fact that I'm driving, a cyclist in front of me, and I'm overtaking the cyclist. No, I'm running over. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u53	Thank you. Mr. Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u54	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad no one's crossing, but they're overtaking. That's definitely positive. I would like to point out to Mrs Berenika, by your means, that class two certainly can't have a lower clearance profile than six metres. So if we're talking, I'm sure it's just third-class communications. Well, even if it doesn't look like it, I used to be a very active cyclist, I used to ride in the woods, on the forest roads, and of course it's true if there aren't two people who agree, you can't avoid the woods. So I often had to get down, run the tractor, or the tractor moved, and I passed. So let's talk a little bit about what needs to be put into the law and what isn't. If we consider ourselves and here in the House, I certainly believe that citizens will also notice and follow us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u55	Thank you. Mr Kukla, then Mr Vomáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u56	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my previous speakers, and I would like to ask the Minister - because here we are dealing with one and a half meters, of course none of us can measure it while driving. At this point, they pay one-and-a-half meters, and I would like to ask if at this point we have any statistics or evaluations on how the Police of the Czech Republic are dealing with this. Whether there was even a fine for not following that one-and-a-half meter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u57	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Vodáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I applied for the performance of my honourable colleague, Berenika Peštová, through yours, Mr President. I wanted to calm down a little passion. And at the same time, I admit that I'm very happy that I'm not a cyclist and that I don't own a bicycle and that I don't have to deal with things that you're dealing with behind this counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u59	Thank you. And since all the factual points have been exhausted, we can start the debate again. And I'll ask Mr. Tesařík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, is approaching noon, so I will try to be short in my speech. In any case, I also refer to the previous discussion in the view that there is a need for greater consideration on our roads. So I would just like to ask, in a brief speech, for your support for the amendment under the heading D1, which I submit with a group of seven Members. It concerns facilitating the parking of registered providers of off-road social services, to which the amendment gives the possibility of short-term parking in places where the stopping and parking of a vehicle is otherwise prohibited. It is undoubtedly clear to all of us how important these field services are at a time when our modern medicine succeeds in prolonging the age of the lives of fellow citizens and many of them allow the disability of the client often associated with health complications in the natural environment of his home. And here it can be said without exaggeration that it is the field service worker, those are the extended hands and feet of the infirm person, and I am very glad that this proposal will help to facilitate their difficult service. This proposal is particularly important for densely populated agglomerations, where these employees of field social services often face the possibility of short-term parking and parking of their vehicle for a period of time strictly necessary to carry out care operations. Here I would like to point out that this is a small step forward to help these field services, and I firmly believe that sometimes in the future it will also be possible to find agreement with the extension of the possibility of short-term parking in the parking spaces reserved for parking ZTP persons, access to the entry ban where the additional table allows the entry of traffic operators or, if necessary, to the pedestrian zone. At the same time, this proposal is aimed at a similar solution, which has already been applied in the case of the provision of healthcare services by visiting a doctor at the patient's place of residence, and we will also need to direct our attention there in the future. Health care at the patient's place of residence or social-health services is humane, professionally and economically more advantageous than in more expensive bed facilities. So I would like very much to support this proposal, and thank you if you decide to do so. I would also like to make a brief comment on the next amendment by my fellow Member, Jan Bartošek, which I adopted when reading at second reading and which we will be voting under the designation D2. This proposal responds to the fact that the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic does not have, unlike most other security forces, § 18 para. 9 Road Traffic Act provided for the possibility of derogation from the maximum speed allowed. While the police, the General Inspection of Security Corps, Customs Administration and Military Police have such a derogation in the law for the purpose of fulfilling their duties in the event of an intervention in crisis situations, firefighters do not. Firefighters may currently exceed the maximum allowed speed only if, in carrying out their duties, they use a vehicle with the right of priority driving, i.e. one which is equipped with a special warning light blue or blue and red. For the reasons set out above, we therefore consider it necessary to facilitate their activities, for example, by also providing them with an exemption from the maximum speed allowed in this section 18 para. 9 Road Traffic Act. Of course, the requirement of the driver's obligation to take care of the necessary care will remain intact so that road safety is not compromised. This should remain and continue to be the highest priority. The proposed exemption shall not apply to all firefighters' vehicles. The specific organizational parts of the fire rescue corps of the Czech Republic are determined by the Minister of Interior, as they are already doing with the Police of the Czech Republic. It can be assumed that it will primarily be vehicles of the Rescue Department of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic and these vehicles will be appropriately marked with the sign Fire Department, which is especially a condition of the Police of the Czech Republic. In order to comply with the procedure throughout the congregation, the issue is envisaged by the Director General in the form of an internal act of management binding on the whole Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic. Thus, in the case of these reserved vehicles set by the Minister of the Interior, the least inscription of the Fire Department will always be appropriately placed on a service vehicle, for example in the form of a magnetic inscription. Due to further discussion of the legislative process at the level of third reading in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, he wants to guarantee that not only the proposed procedure will be followed, i.e. the exception will apply only to specified organizational parts of the choir defined directly by the Minister of the Interior, but it will also be the vehicles directly marked by the inscription Firefighter. Ladies and gentlemen, so much illumination of this amendment and I thank you for its possible support. And since we are soon... or we are about to come to a vote - after the speeches on this amendment - on amendments, I think that thanking is never enough, and I personally consider this amendment to be one of the biggest achievements in the last twenty years, when the areas that we have mentioned today are being dealt with in a comprehensive and consistent manner. So I would like to thank the Minister of Transport and the employees of the Ministry of Transport and all the experts and colleagues who have been involved in this process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u61	Thank you. And I beg you, we have one de facto, Mr Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ministers, attention, colleagues, as my colleague mentioned here, "though I do not look like one, I rode a bicycle." I, although I don't look like one, I used to ride a bike, too. But what I'm saying is, although I don't look like one, I've been doing traffic myself. And the designs I've heard here are interesting, and I have to say, I can't do it, because when we talk about 18 years behind the wheel of a bus, although the route is only 50 kilometers away, it's often not just urban traffic, but it's also suburban and unfortunately it's a danger. [[11.30 hours]] I was the head of transport at the farm, and we just had the tide of our workers into those classic ČSADs. And they always went there because they wanted to ride something more. But what did they do first? Well, by the time they got to the truck, they were driving gravel, they were driving in the field, a car with a lift, they were driving construction, and they had to get practice. And the practice, it's just an inherent part. And when you get your driver's license when you're 18, you can't have that practice, even if you cut yourself. At least 17 with a tractor. So it's not easy at all, and I think it's underestimating the situation. And as far as the other point of discussion is concerned, it's weekend traffic. I have a lot of friends who will contact me from the transport area. They would like this support. But look at the weekend driver today. Today, the roads are full on the weekend, and they're drivers who don't drive as regularly as we do, and they're kind of sick of it, and now we're gonna give them trucks. I see it as a big issue to consider, and I'd be afraid of the safety of road traffic, because, as we all know, the trucker is coming back and he's tired of driving off the long road, and the holiday driver might have a big problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u63	Thank you. And with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to add to the amendment by Mr Stanislav Blaha concerning the exception of trucks, so I would like to point out that you have all definitely registered this in your e-mail boxes, that you have found the dissenting position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, where it is clearly stated that we must defend the interest of the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned. So let's keep this in mind, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u65	Thank you. Real remarks have been exhausted, so please, the last one entered into the debate so far, and this is Mr Martin Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u66	So when we discussed this law at our club - I hope I won't offend anyone, I'll lighten it - so we thought, the debate is harder than marriage for everyone and others. It's probably understandable. Each of us is moving in this road traffic, I think not ninety, maybe one hundred percent of us in the role of drivers and a large part in the role of cyclists. So I'm pleasantly surprised at the end, co-workers and colleagues, that we made it here in a relatively reasonable time, and even my last performance won't be very long. But, Minister, I'll have two other things in there where I'll turn to you, and I'll be very happy if you respond to my microphone here. One. I will say in general about the bill as such that, as the YES movement, we support it and support the bill in the final reading. Let me remind you here that the change in the point system was being prepared under previous governments in those basic theories. During the current election period, the Ministry of Transport under the leadership of Martin Kupka has done so, moving the basic ideas, such as simplifying the point system to the three types of points and so on, I will say a little further. It added two new things that we consider positive, the so-called L17 and the driver's license for the test, which has a certain link to those discussed young bus drivers, which we support. In the L17 I will mention - I have considered after discussion with road safety experts as well as with drivers, whether to ask the mentors for some minimum education pedagogical or to pass a certain course. Finally, on the Economic Committee, I was convinced by the Minister that you did not want to go this way, and I agree with that. To order people again, to raise them, to give them a mandatory course... So if the drivers are watching us now, I can see that the projects like Start Driving and so on are already working. Please be active in this and offer this on that voluntary basis. Here, let me just remind you that the devil is hidden in detail. When we looked at statistics, a similar institute in Germany, works in Denmark, reduced accidents among young drivers. But, for example, there was no reduction in France, and it was, let's just say, a kind of too liberal approach by the Francouz to those mentors who teach those young drivers, they transfer their habits to them. But at this point, the way it's set, on our part, support. I'm not going back to the bike thesis. Here I want to calm the cycling public for myself or tell her that I agree with the position of the Ministry of Transport and the coalition. I am against the amendments. And I'm not gonna recommend this in the club of the ANO movement because it's an institute that works for a year or so over a year. In my opinion, it cultivates, improves, contributes to the mutual consideration of both groups and there is no need to change it. We also discussed trucks. With an apology to the message to the representatives of Česmad: but as it is prepared, we cannot support this in the cooperation of Members and the Ministry. And I'm reporting publicly that we're gonna try and work this out right after the holidays. There. And now those two crucial things, Minister, and that is up to you, and I would be very happy if you would respond to me. One. I'm surprised that you, as the Department of Transport, will eventually resign, or you won't, reject the exact definition, that's the minimum longitudinal distance. From the information I have, I understand that it was originally in the proposal that it was those road safety experts who recommended that you be prepared there. And here's what I'm going to say, there are two amendments in this system... [[There's noise in the room.]] One of your coalitions...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u67	I'd like to ask everyone in the O.R. to... please keep their voice down, or take care of everything in front of the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u68	Thank you. One of your coalition colleagues, Mr Exner, under the designation B4. He's softer than mine. He's designing one second, only as a violation at speeds above 80 kilometers per hour. That means...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u69	I will interrupt you once more and ask my colleagues, especially in the right, it is quite important now, there are amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u70	Well, thank you so much for the attention. I don't want to raise my voice unnecessarily, so I believe I can still keep the House of Honor's attention. Mr Exner - one second above the speed of 80 kilometers per hour as a misdemeanor. In my G6 proposal, I'm going the Slovak way. I actually rewritten the existing functional Slovak law into the Czech law. And I see it as a compromise, too. I suggest it only on the highways. Only on the highways to test this place at the highest speed. And I'm based on the definition of two seconds for most road vehicles, three seconds for motorcycles and trucks. And it's exactly a copy of what already works in Slovakia. And I ask, Minister, why did you step aside? Why don't you want it after all? You may have noticed, co-workers, co-workers, there was a great story on Czech TV recently that the traffic police can measure this already, they have technology, they have drones, but the way it works is that they stop the drivers and tell them: you haven't kept a safe distance. They say thank you and keep going. So I'm asking, why don't we at least try the highways? I may sense some idea of the world of ODS colleagues that they just want to be conservative in this, they don't want to order people. And as much as I don't agree with that, I can respect that, it may be some kind of political opinion, a view of the world, but I'll be glad if the minister here says that on the microphone, why doesn't he want to go down that exact definition of the minimum safe distance. And where, I remind you, neither colleague Exner nor I discover America, we do not go in a new way, we are all based on valid European legislation, just everyone in a different, different country. That's one question. And the other. It sounded nice here, the digitalization. We won't have to have driver's licenses, technical I.D.s from April 1st. Again, the ministry - what the minister did not mention, I will say for him - follows up on the work of the previous government in the digitization. Citizen's portal, putting those agendas in the Citizen's Portal, such as a statement from the point system, a statement of those technical records, an overview of your vehicles. That started in the past government. Clearly, it's a good thing the current one's going on, and we're going to support this. But I have three questions that haven't been answered anywhere. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] One.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u71	I'm gonna interrupt you again, and I'm gonna ask my colleagues to keep their voices down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u72	And I thought the point system was really interested in everyone, so maybe I was wrong. We don't have to have a driver's license on us. Traffic police are able to check this out today, it's equipped, it's got agendas, it's got a technique to look into the registers. That means, I suppose, there won't be any extra costs, and I'm asking the Department of Transport if this news that looks nice, kissing - and I won't be against it - did the Department of Transport count? The traffic police o.k., but what about the city police? What about customs? They also have the right to ask for a driver's license, to ask for a registration, to ask for ID. And if they get a driver who doesn't have it on him and invoke the new law, will they be able to control it? Won't they have to equip themselves with some new technique? And if so, what will be the cost to them? Please, if you've done the math. [[11.40 hours]] Next question, strangers. It will only apply to Czech drivers and to foreigners, won't it? Otherwise, our drivers abroad. I guess that's where we're gonna have to get our licenses? So how do you make this up in relation to strangers in our country? There's a Kanaďan coming, an Američan, borrowing a car at the airport. So I guess I guess he's gonna have to have his foreign driver's license. But how do you work with this or how well thought out you are? Third time's the question. Basic registers aren't perfect, there are mistakes, they're not completely clean. This is now a new task for your government colleagues, for Minister Bartoš with his Digital Agency. And I ask, can the Department of Transport publicly guarantee that the registers will be okay? That if a police officer checks someone who doesn't have the papers on him, that he'll track down the current and true data in the registers, that there won't be any error rate? I'd like the Minister to answer that question. The last part of my show, to the end. This, Mr rapporteur and Mr President, is for you. When we come to the procedure, I am withdrawing my two amendments. It is an amendment under the designation G5 and a proposal under the designation G7. At the G5 I suggested the so-called alcohol and drug test rejections. I suggested that they be considered a criminal offence. I'm adjusting that opinion for two reasons. First of all, because the Ministry is on its way there to propose a very high fine of CZK 75 000. I think it's a lot to go along the way of this crime. So I don't want to go head-to-head against the wall and enforce a proposal that would not be accepted, and even after the debate, after the debate with colleagues from the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it's not written into those ideal paragraphs in the law. You could work with him, but in a different way. I don't want to burden the debate, that's why I'm pulling the G5. Mr President, then I will beg for the procedure, because that is how we must vote under the Rules of Procedure that this proposal will be withdrawn and not in procedure. The second proposal I withdraw is the G7 where I proposed to define in general that vehicles must only be used for the purpose for which they are made. I was aiming at drifting on the road, riding the rear wheels on a motorcycle and all that. After a deeper discussion with the lawyers, I also learned that this is already defined in the law in general in the introductory paragraphs. These are the provisions where we must not endanger other operators and so on. So, in the end, I have decided not to burden the debate with this amendment, and I am also withdrawing the G7, and I ask that the vote be removed from the procedure. Thank you for your attention, and I'd be happy to have the Minister give me the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u73	Yes, thank you. After you've led us through the vote, I have a note that we will vote on the G5 and the G7. At this point, all your proposals for the debate have been exhausted. No one else is checking in. That is the end of the debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in speaking with the final word? [[Yes, but first, the rapporteur.]] First, the rapporteur, all right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Only the final word in the final of the discussion of this press. I would like to sum up the fact that although we have different amendments, I consider the law as a whole to be very good one. I think it will help to clarify the whole system, also to less administration. It balances where sanctions are tightened, for the really serious and dangerous offences and, if necessary, for the criminal offences, but also for the moments when one threatens one another very strongly. At the same time, the small ones, on the other hand, are more moderate sanctions. I very much welcome the fact that we have the focus on young drivers here, for example, that they will be able to drive a mentor since the age of 17. I also very much welcome the fact that in the law, for example, the fact that a car is blocked by a passenger car will have a greater penalty on the tram. We have already discussed the individual amendments here. Then I will speak only as rapporteur and for me that is all. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Transport and all colleagues from the Sub-Committee on Transport and all those who are interested in transport for having a rational discussion, for exchanging arguments, for trying to be as fair as possible and for finally making a law that will be better for the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic on the roads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u75	Thank you. Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions asked by Martin Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u77	I'll cut you off, Minister. Now please turn left side, colleagues. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u78	Why didn't we involve a firm determination of a safe distance directly into the law? That was one of the things we actually discussed about how to do this. We have decided to take the road by giving priority to prevention and information to the driving public. Immediately following the discussion last year, sections on the Czech motorway and road network began to be marked with those arrow keys that inform the driver about the necessary safe distance. The safe distance in the present law is anchored. It's aggravating circumstances at the moment of the collision, at the time of the accident. We believe that the homework for the government, for the Czech state, is to be the first priority in this regard to inform the driver that this really is a key condition for safe movement on the Czech motorway network. At the same time, in the case of modern vehicles, assistance systems are able to monitor the safe distance. I firmly hope that even the steps we have taken will lead to the public knowing more about what the safe distance should be. The steps that we take to do this are really meant to bring this clearly. Then the space will need to be evaluated with a distance of two or three years if the elements actually meet with the public response. We are inspired in this direction abroad, where we meet more commonly as drivers with the marking of the sections where it is possible to check the safe distance. If after that evaluation with a distance of two to three years then it is appropriate to involve the safe distance into the law and, of course, explicitly fine his non-compliance, it should really be the subject of the next procedure, and not now suddenly come up with such a step. In the first place, the public is really well informed and more preventive in this regard. [[Strong noise in the hall, MEPs in plenary are having loud discussions.]] Regarding the possibility of not carrying a driving licence and not carrying a technical licence in the territory of the Czech Republic, this is a circumstance that we agreed on within the Chamber of Deputies when we received -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u79	I'm gonna interrupt you again. Now I'm looking on the right side again. Please repeatedly... Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u80	- which we agreed on when adopting a digital constitution, i.e. the citizens' right to digital service. There are amendments set out in term 1. 7. 2025. So the acquisition of this technique must take place anyway, and even after the debate with the Police of the Czech Republic and after the debate with several municipal police, which mostly already have the equipment, because even today it would be difficult to do without it, it is already true that the current data is much more in the registers than on the plastic card, because there are really the most up-to-date data, the most up-to-date circumstances. As far as foreigners are concerned, the measure is aimed at Czech drivers in the Czech Republic. The foreigner should, of course, have either an international driving licence or an appropriate licence that allows him to drive in the Czech Republic. We also assume that the driver abroad will have to take him on a trip to the Czech Republic, as our drivers will have to take all the relevant documents with regard to checks abroad. As far as the basic registers are concerned, we're tracking time lapses. We don't accept it. It's up to the Basic Registers Administration to really make this work as best as possible for the future. So many brief answers to your questions about the final word. I am really convinced that this is a law that can contribute to greater road safety. I am pleased that there is agreement on fundamental principles in the Chamber of Deputies. I am glad that key principles have been brought into legislation, and in this regard I consider it groundbreaking that it is said here in many speeches that, as the basic principle of the amendment, we are following the level of danger of the offences, and that is what the sanctions are. [[11.50 hours]] I see it as important that we pay great attention to the explanation of the principle of the law that we are heading towards a simpler point system, that we are also reducing the penalty zones, that in this respect the legislation really meets with greater clarity and with a clear simplification. I am glad that the standard also carries with it the principle of greater enforcement of the law that the amendment hides the effort of as many offences as possible to be able to sanction on the spot, because the effect can then be clearly achieved with a greater impact. I see it as important that the law brings two important news with a focus on the most risky part of the public, while one of those innovations, the ability to drive a vehicle from 17 years of age under the supervision of a mentor, does not have new sanctions, but it really aims to prevent and brings a significant advantage within the law and tries to aim for greater safety by aiming at the fact that the element of education, the element of emphasis on predictability, consideration in the person accompanying the mentor can project into the Czech environment and should reflect as favorably as in the countries where they have already introduced it. Finally, a driver's licence for a test which, in the first two years after obtaining a driving licence, has committed a serious offence or even a criminal offence, a serious offence assessed by six points, must be submitted to a traffic psychological lecture and training of the starting driver within three months. These are the new two elements that are heading towards preventing further risk situations in a more precautionary way. I believe these principles predestin the law not only to succeed in the next vote, but to have really positive impacts on how accidents will develop on the Czech road network, and ultimately to contribute to the fact that the victims of traffic accidents will be less and that serious injuries on the Czech roads will also decline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u81	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur asked for my word. With a supplement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u82	Thank you, Mr President. In this section, we still have to load the legislative technical adaptations that I apply to, and there are two of them, and I have consulted them with the legislation. Let me just remind those who may be as new as I am in the House that we will, of course, read legislative technical modifications. Then they will be voted on. In the event that the amendment is subsequently not approved, the legislative technical regulation falls because it is linked to this proposal. I would therefore like to read the legislative technical amendment of the two amendments as submitted to me by legislation. Legally, the technical amendment to Mr Exner's amendment, here 2650, referred to in B4, published in the press 366/3. And the point is that the introductory phrase to point B4 1.1 is "In point 25, the sentence is added at the end of the paragraph'. Reason - correction of misformulated introductory phrase. So this is a legislative technical regulation. Then there is another legislative technical regulation, which concerns Art. In the third reading of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 41 and after that point in the Houses of the Press 366. This is Mr Antonín Tesařík's parliamentary proposal in the proposed amendment by Mr Antonín Tesařík. So it's D1. In the procedure House document 2639 is in the newly proposed wording of Art. The term "registered' - this is important - releases "registered' at the newly proposed point of point 43 below. [[Section 67, par. 1 Road Traffic Act]] [[Section 67, par. 5 Road Traffic Act]] Reason. This is a technological adjustment following the wording of Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, which does not work with the term registered social services provider. This is indeed a technical legislative regulation, which I am now applying for. And then I would suggest we vote on them together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u83	Yes, thank you. You may as well stay at the counter, because at this point, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I've already gotten started before. And all I'm saying is that we have two other things, or three things, and that's that we have to vote that the G5 and G7 changers will be withdrawn, and we have these two legislative technical modifications. So I'll ask the rapporteur if he can guide us through the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u84	Thank you, Mr President. As rapporteur, then, I will remind you that this press was discussed on 25 May 2023 on the Economic Committee, which is a guarantee committee and recommends to the House of Parliament to vote in the third reading on proposals for a bill, just in the order of... And then there are legislative technical modifications. However, before I read the resolution, i.e. the procedure proposed, I would like to vote on Mr Kolovratník's proposal, and that is that he withdraws his G5 and G7 points from the procedure. I'd have put it to a vote together, if Mr. Kolovratník's up for it. Agreed. So I propose to vote on the withdrawal of Mr Kolovratník's G5 and Mr G7 amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u85	Yes. The Minister's position? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: I agree with you, too.]] Yes. Thank you. At this point, therefore, I am opening the vote on the withdrawal of the G5 and G7 amendments. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, logged in 176, for was 170, against no one. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u86	Thank you. So I would now suggest that I first read the procedure that I would then vote on, because the procedure is quite complex. It's nothing trivial, there are a few complicated points. So I'll read it calmly, then we'll vote on it, that's my proposal, and then I'll take you through the vote. So the procedure proposed is that we would vote first, we would vote in the following order: First of all, proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. That, and that's the two I'm applying to. Secondly, secondly, Amendments A1, A2 and A4 under the resolution of the Economic Committee. I must point out here that, in the event of a non-vote, Amendment E1 is unvoteable. And, in the event of a vote, this amendment by Mr Blaha E1 must be voted because it is thematically linked to Amendments A1, A2, A4 - it is a shared zone. Third, Amendment A3. It is also a resolution of the Economic Committee. In the event of a vote, I must also draw attention to the non-vote, the H4 amendment to Mr Sládeček is unvoted because Amendments A3 and A4 are identical. Fourthly, Amendment A5, which is also the resolution of the Economic Committee. Fifth Amendment A6 and Amendment A7. They are both in the resolution of the Economic Committee. For Mr Exner's seventh amendment B1, for Mr Exner's eighth amendment B2, for Mr Exner's eighth amendment. For the ninth amendment B3 and then for the tenth amendment B4, both of Mr Exner. For the 11th amendment C4, this is Mrs Ožanová. I must point out here that, in the case of a vote from the vote, Amendment C1 by Mrs Ožanová is unvoteable and, in the case of a non-vote, it is necessary to vote on Amendment C1 by Mrs Ožanová. For the twelfth amendment C2 and for the thirteenth amendment C3, both Mrs Ožanová. Point 14 is Amendment D1, paragraph 15 of Mr Tesařík's amendment D2 and, respectively, he reported at second reading for Mr Bartošek in the case of paragraph 15. Points 16 to 23 are Mr Blaha's amendments; these are amendments E2, E3, E4, E5, E6, E7, E8 and E9. [[12.00 hours]] The vote on Amendment F would follow, that is paragraph 24, Mr Koten. Here I must point out that, in the case of his vote, the unvoteable amendments to Mr H5, Mr H2 to Mr Sládeček are unvoted, and in the case of the non-vote, on the contrary, these amendments to Mr H5 and Mr H2 to Mr Sládeček need to be voted. The amendments that are next before us are Mr Kolovratník. These are points 25 to 31, and therefore amendments G1, G2, G3, G4, G5, G6, G7. I would just like to point out here that the Member has withdrawn the G5 and G7 parliamentary proposal, which we have already voted on and we will not vote on. I'm on my way to the finals. The following are Mr Sládeček's amendments, point 32 to 34 and are amendments H1, H3 and H6. Thirty-five. - it is also Mr Staněk's amendment. And at the end, we would vote for the 36th draft law as a whole. It's a procedure proposal. And since the procedure is complicated, I would suggest that we vote for it so that there is no discussion about how it should have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u87	Thank you. So we're going to vote on the procedure at this point, as proposed by the rapporteur. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the procedure being the way it was designed? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered 175, for was 171, against no one. Accepted. We can get to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u88	Thank you. Thus, according to the approved procedure, we should first vote on legislative technical adaptations. These are the two legislative technical amendments that I applied for a moment ago, and I therefore propose to vote on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u89	Yes, so we're both voting at the same time. [[Ambassador Lochman agrees.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 47, 175 logged in, for was 172, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u90	Thank you. So let's continue with point one. Item 1 is Amendments A1, A2 and A4 together. I'm only going to briefly describe it in one sentence so that we can all keep track. This is therefore a proposal introducing a new type of shared zone. The three proposals are linked, which is why we propose to vote together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u91	The rapporteur's opinion? [[Recommendant.]] And the Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, registered 175, for was 162, versus 1. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u92	Thank you. Since these proposals have been approved, there is still a need to vote on Mr Blaha's amendment, and that is E1 because it is related to the shared zone. It's about... a moment... This is because it is proposed newly in the newly introduced shared zone the possibility of solving offences by municipal police on the spot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u93	Thank you. The rapporteur's opinion? [[Recommending for the guarantee committee.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 49, registered 175, for 169, against no one. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u94	Thank you. The following proposal is paragraph 3 and this is Amendment A3, I will briefly read the text. The amendment cancels the newly anchored obligation of the driver to report to the Police of the Czech Republic that the vehicle constitutes an obstacle to traffic on the motorway, regardless of whether or not it is able to remove the vehicle from the motorway itself. The driver will not be obliged to call the Czech Republic, but will be able to choose another solution to the upcoming situation, such as direct contact with the assistance service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u95	Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Votes 50, 175 logged in for 171, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u96	Thank you. Since Amendment A3 has been adopted, I am merely announcing that Mr Sládeček's amendment H4 is unvoting. So let's continue with point 5 and that's proposal A5. It is proposed that the applicant's licence, issued by an applicant for a driving licence at the start of teaching and training, may also be conducted in electronic form.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u97	Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 51, 175 logged in, for was 172, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u98	Thank you. The next item is therefore proposal A6. In the case of design A6 it is proposed to waive the condition under which a repeated test from the competence to drive motor vehicles can be carried out in five working days at the earliest according to the test. And the committee's position here is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u99	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, registered 175, for was 170, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u100	Thank you. So we are now moving on to Amendment A7. Here it is proposed to leave the condition under which the repeated examination of the professional competence of drivers can be carried out not earlier than five working days, i.e. similar to professional competence, and five days from the date of the unsuccessful examination. It is the last draft of the Economic Committee and the opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u101	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 53, registered 175, in favour of the vote 172. [[from the board against no one]] Accepted. Sorry, I'll cut you off. [[The rapporteur already wanted to speak]] I have a remark here that the voting device doesn't work, Secretary Langšádlová, so I'd like to ask the support staff... [[Modification of the voting device.]] Well, let me ask you if you'd like to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u102	Thank you. I therefore believe that we have settled the proposals of the Economic Committee. We are now moving on to Amendment B. These are Mr Exner's amendments. B1 first, then. Here it is proposed to abolish the application to grant a fine of half the lower limit of the fine which, depending on the type of offence, would be imposed on the spot. It is also proposed to increase the preventive effect of increasing specific rates. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u103	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 54 registered 175, for was 5, against 139. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u104	Thank you. We continue with Amendment B2. This is Mr Exner. This is an amendment - I will try to simplify it - where driving teachers actually lose their driving licence, so they could theoretically continue to pursue their profession, namely teaching, and the Member proposes to make this proposal more effective. However, there was no agreement with the Ministry of Transport and the Committee's position is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u105	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 55 registered 175, for was 5, against 160. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u106	Thank you. Amendment B3. Here, Mr Exner proposes an amendment concerning the upper and lower limits of fines. It is proposed to abandon the current upper limit for misdemeanors from the lowest category of 2,000, newly proposed 1,500, while at the same time avoiding the possibility of dealing with misdemeanors. The lower limit of CZK 500 is therefore introduced. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u107	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 56 registered 175, for 2, against 156. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u108	Thank you. Member's amendment B4. This is an already discussed safe distance and it is proposed to establish a measurable number of safe distances between vehicles and thus enable the enforcement of this offence. Basically, that's the one second-- safe distance. The Committee is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u109	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 57 registered 175, for was 10, against 134. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u110	Thank you. This has exhausted Mr Exner's amendments. And now the proposal C4 - and we are beginning with the amendments by Mrs Ožanová. I mean, design C4. The point here is that it proposes completely abolishing the provisions on a safe distance of 1.5 metres between a car and a cyclist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u111	Committee opinion? [[No opinion.]] Without an opinion, the committee. And the Minister? Designer? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 58 registered 175, for was 9, against was 91. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u112	Thank you. Now, Mrs Ožanová and her proposal C1. It is the same, i.e. interference with a safe distance of 1.5 metres, but only on special purpose roads.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u113	Committee opinion? [[No opinion.]] And the plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 59 registered 175, for was 14, against 81. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u114	Thank you. Membership proposal by Mrs Ožanová C2, which proposes that a bicycle helmet be mandatory for each person from the age of 18...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u115	I'd like everyone in the room to remain calm, please, so we can hear you! Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u116	So one more time. Mrs Ožanová - Amendment C2 and this is the introduction of an obligation for cyclists - protective helmets from the age of 18.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u117	And the committee's position? [[He's back without an opinion.]] The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 60 registered 175, for was 24, against 69. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u118	Thank you. The final proposal by Mrs Ožanová C3. Here it is suggested to introduce without exception the obligation of cyclists to use a lane for cyclists, a reserved lane for cyclists or a trail for cyclists. And the committee's position is without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u119	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 61 registered 175, for was 22, against 80. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u120	Thank you, Mr President. We are now moving on to Mr Tesařík's amendment D1 and it is an extension of the special vehicle marking to the vehicle of the field service provider, which means that they will also be able to stand in urgent cases in places where, in normal cases, the ban is state. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u121	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 62 registered 175, for was 171, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u122	Thank you. Amendment D2, originally Mr Bartošek, to whom Mr Tesařík has applied, and this is an addition of exceptions to the maximum speed allowed by the organisational component of the EIG. The Committee shall deliver an opinion which shall not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u123	The Minister's opinion? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 63 registered 175, for was 103, against 21. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u124	Thank you. We are now moving on to Amendment E, Mr Blaha. Amendment E1 has already been voted on, so we are starting with Amendment E2. This is about the fact that customs drivers will not have to undergo a transport psychological examination under the Road Traffic Act. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u125	It's a recommendation, you said? [[Yes.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote 64, 175 registered, for was 167, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u126	Thank you. I just heard from my colleagues, and I just want to add that on the last proposal, the obligation is already upon the driver's arrival. That's why it comes out because it's being dubbed. [[12.20 hours]] Amendment E3 to Mr Blaha. The Ministry of Transport's competence in the form of approval, implementation and use of traffic signs, light and acoustic signals or traffic equipment is deleted here. This reduces the administration. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u127	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, registered 175, for was 172, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u128	The following is E4 - Mr Blaha's amendment. The granting of exceptions from the age for motor athletes is interrupted, there will be a reduction of the agenda carried out by the Ministry of Transport. The matter will now be dealt with by the relevant committee of the relevant sport. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u129	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 66, registered 175, for was 168, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u130	Thank you. Mr Blaha's E5 follows. Here, it is only a formal regulation that responds to the amendment of the Road Traffic Act adopted in the meantime. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u131	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 67, registered 175, for was 170, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u132	Thank you. Amendment E6 to Mr Blaha. It is proposed that the obligation be abolished earlier - i.e. from 1. 1. 2024 - have a driving licence or a technical licence and a certificate of professional competence, which will otherwise take place up to 1. 7. 2025. Agreed opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u133	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68, logged in 174, for 170, against no one. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u134	Thank you. We are now with Mr Blaha E7's amendment. This is already a very discussed ban on the driving of a vehicle on a given day and time. Newly will not apply for driving to the place of unloading if it is in the territory of the Czech Republic, and follow-up without cargo to the place of residence of the driver or the seat or establishment of the carrier. So it's the trucks we were talking about, these are the exceptions. The Committee's position here has been previously recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u135	Excuse me? [[Rapporteur: Recommendant.]] Recommendant. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69, registered 173, for 28, against 111. Denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u136	Thank you. Amendment E8, which proposes, in particular, to drive regular buses on routes below 50 kilometres from 18 years of age. The Committee's opinion is - without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u137	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 70, logged in 174, for was 42, versus 107. Denied. Vice-President of Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u138	Thank you very much. To vote number 69, I was in favour of, I'm in favor of high school. However, I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u139	Thank you. The vote shall not be questioned. We can continue, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u140	Thank you. Now, therefore, Amendment E9. Mr Blaha's amendment proposes simplifying the conditions for establishing a special procedure for the exchange of a driving licence issued abroad. It does not correspond to the Vienna and Geneva Convention. There will therefore remain a condition to have a driving licence for the same category of vehicles. And I think that's enough here. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u141	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 71, logged in 174, for was 171, no one against. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u142	We have dealt with Mr Blaha's amendments. We are now at paragraph 24, i.e. just for the sake of clarity, and it is Mr Koten's amendment F. The petitioner proposes to abolish the obligation to undergo a transport psychological interview, further proposes the removal of the offence in the form of exceeding the maximum speed allowed in the village, the abolition of the extension of the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic in the service uniform generally to police officers, removing the possibility of removing the table from the license plate or RZ vehicle and removing the prohibition of dealing with the offence by agreement, also eliminating the accumulation of sanctions. The opinion of the Committee in this case is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u143	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 72, logged in 174, for was 17, against was 143. Denied. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u144	Just please, for the tape screen. I was against the 69 vote, and I've got a pro on the high. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u145	Thank you. The vote shall not be called into question. We're good to go. Sorry. There's one more request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u146	Thank you. I was against the 69 vote, too, and on the high road, I think I was up for it. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u147	It is also not questioned. Mr rapporteur, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u148	Thank you. Now... I mean, we only voted in the procedure that if he wasn't voted... Just a second, it's more complicated here. So, in the event of not voting, Amendment H5 and H2 are not voting, so they are voteable. So we are now continuing with the amendments H5 and H2. Now, then, the vote on paragraph H5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u149	I don't want to enter. Isn't G6 supposed to be there now and G7?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u150	No, no, no. It's connected. This was the case in the procedure where we voted that Mr Koten's amendment, that they were unvoted in the event of a vote. [[I understand, I understand.]] On the contrary, if we do not vote, we have to vote H5 and H2. They're thematically connected. First of all, therefore, Amendment H5 to Mr Sládeček. Here it is proposed to cancel the retention of a driving licence in some cases and it is further proposed to repeal the provision in which the presumption of innocence is violated in the event of severe injury to health. The opinion is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u151	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 73, registered 172, for was 13, against 145. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u152	Thank you. Now, therefore, H of Mr Sládeček, who proposes that in the event of a reason for withholding a driving licence which is not submitted, it is possible to declare the driver's licence detained and that the driver must hand it over within five days to the ORP responsible for committing an offence in the case of the ORP responsible for keeping the driver's data. The Committee opposes this, so it does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u153	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered 172, for was 17, versus 142. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u154	Thank you. Now, Mr Kolovratník's amendments, the G1 we are starting. The point is that the practical driving test record can also be kept in electronic form. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u155	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 75, the entry was 172, for it was 166, versus 1. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u156	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník G2's amendment. This is about the fact that any person with completed secondary education may hold a professional certificate for teaching subjects from the point of view of education. Please note that it is now restricted to machinery and transport. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u157	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, registered 172, for was 165, versus 1. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u158	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník's emissary proposal. It is Amendment G3. The point is that the test commissioner must hold a valid Commissioner's licence in a given, i.e. a test, group of vehicles during the test of vehicle control and maintenance. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u159	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, the entry was 172, for 168, no one opposed. Accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u160	Thank you. Again, Mr. Kolovratník, G4. The amendment proposes introducing a ban on proceedings against three offences. This is an entry to the railway crossing over the ban, violation of the ban overtaking on the full or double line, and turning, backing and driving in the opposite direction on the highway. The Committee shall deliver an opinion which is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u161	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 78, registered 172, for was 58, versus 85. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u162	Thank you. Originally we had to vote G5, however it was voted that it was withdrawn, i.e. proposal G6. This is a solution to a safe distance, as is the case with Mr Exner. Here it is suggested to express the distance as the distance of two seconds or three seconds respectively for those trucks. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u163	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 79, 172 has been registered for 17, anti 83. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u164	Thank you. The G7 has been withdrawn by Mr Kolovratník and we have dealt with his amendments. So now, Mr 1 of Mr Sládeček, who is concerned with the subject and presents that, in the case of reasons for... We've already voted, haven't we? No. ... that, in the case of grounds for detention of a driving licence which is not submitted, it is possible to declare the driving licence to be detained and that the driver must surrender it within five days to the ORP responsible for committing the offence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u165	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: No opinion.]] No opinion. Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 80, registered 172, for was 48 versus 78. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u166	Thank you. H2 has already been dealt with, so now H3 of Mr Sládeček. It is proposed here to repeal the provisions specifying the aspects of safe distance. And the committee's position is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u167	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 81, the entry was 171, for it was 16, versus 135. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u168	Thank you. We've already dealt with the H5 point. Now, then, item H6 of Mr Sládeček. It proposes to remove the point relating to the binding of fines imposed for offences in a joint procedure with a justification for too high fines. The opinion of the Committee is not recommended here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u169	I'm sorry, what? [[Rapporteur: Unadvisable.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? The vote number 82, 171 entered was 14 against 138. Denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u170	Now I can please you, this is the last amendment before the vote on the law as a whole. It is Mr Staněk's amendment, originally Bureš, if I am not mistaken. Here the petitioner proposes to allow the holders of a category B licence over 21 years of age to drive snowmobiles. There is a recommendation opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u171	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 83, logged in 171, for 164, against no one. Accepted. Since we have exhausted all the amendments, we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended and other related laws, according to the House Press 366, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Road Traffic Act]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 84, registered 169, for was 163, against no one. Accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and I thank everyone for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-001-100.u172	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, before we go to the next point, I will read that today, with a replacement card number 23, Minister Vít Rakušan will vote. And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
