ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u1	90. Members of Stanislav Blaha, Ondřej Lochman, Jiří Slavík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and Act No. 220/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 257/2000 Coll., on Probation and Mediation Service and on Amendment of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 65/1965 Coll., Labour Code, as amended and Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social-Legal Protection of Children (Probation and Mediation Service Act), as amended, and some other laws /German press 365 - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We have received the Government's position as House Press 365/1 and please refer to Mr Stanislav Blaha as the appellant. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present to you the draft law of the Group of Members, while stressing that all the Members' clubs represented in this Group are represented in this Chamber of Deputies. The proposed bill amends Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic, and Act No. 220/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure. Act No. 220/2021 Coll. there has been the incorporation of therapeutic programmes intended for perpetrators of serious offences or offences committed in connection with the driving of motor vehicles, both in the Road Traffic Act and in the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code. The therapeutic programme will have to be completed by any driver who has committed an offence or offence for which he has been banned for more than 18 months or who has refused to undergo an examination for alcohol or other addictive substances, or by the prosecutor or judge. The legal regulation of the therapeutic programmes was adopted on the basis of the parliamentary amendment applied in the draft law, which primarily regulated criminal law rules. This legislation was therefore not discussed in the context of the government phase of the legislative process. There is therefore a need to remedy the fundamental shortcomings of this legislation before it becomes effective. This is to happen on 1 July of this year. The legislation in force in the therapeutic programmes envisages that all relevant provisions will take effect at one date, this is just as at 1 July of this year, without including any transitional provisions. At that date, it is intended to open up the possibility to train and accredit lecturers who will provide therapeutic programmes, but at the same time on that date there is an obligation for the citizens concerned to complete such programmes, without fulfilling this obligation being allowed to regain their driving licence. This cannot be ensured in practice. Future teachers would first have to take a qualification course according to the applicable legislation, but this will take some time. These teachers must first be accredited in order to provide these therapeutic programmes. It is therefore not realistic for anyone to be able to complete the therapeutic programme from 1 July this year, let alone prove that they had graduated from it on that date and to apply for a refund of the driving licence. [[12.40 hours]] This deficiency will cause citizens not to be able to fulfil the legal conditions for the return of the driving licence, which may result in the Czech Republic's liability for the damage caused. The draft law therefore addresses the gradual run-up of this new institute, when measures of a legal, financial, personnel, organisational and administrative nature first take place, in particular for the training and accreditation of lecturers, and only then will the obligation to undergo a therapeutic programme affect citizens. At the same time, the draft law eliminates a number of other shortcomings in the current legislation, which would complicate the implementation of therapeutic programmes. I would now like to mention the fundamental changes brought about by this amendment to the law. The condition for the return of the driving licence will not be the completion of the therapeutic programme if the offence or offence was committed before 1 July this year. The decision to waive payment for participation in the therapeutic programme shall be withdrawn. The original assumption is abandoned, according to which the therapeutic programme would always have to be conducted by more lecturers, entered into the law of guarantee of availability of therapeutic programs, shortening the period of therapeutic practice that the person applying for the accreditation of the lecturer has to prove. The condition of completion of the qualification course and the follow-up examination for lecturers in the case of persons who have already completed a similar course and examination is interrupted and the authorities that will have access to the information portal are precised. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to approve this bill at first reading in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Act. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, since it is indeed necessary and it is essential that the changes it contains take effect before 1 July this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u3	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the agreement of all Members of Parliament's Clubs. This is the 13th hour at which we had a fixed point - Mr Köppl's appeal. This point will only be postponed after the discussion of paragraph 106, which means that we will continue after 13:00 to discuss points 104, 106. After discussing point 106, we would have just included this point, but not later than 13.45, when the elections are firmly placed. Now, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Martin Kolovratník. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u4	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I will follow up on the rapporteur's role, and, as has been said, this press is proposed for discussion in the so-called '90s', i.e. in the shortened or accelerated reading, now, in fact, at this point, if all the clubs agree to it, or if the veto is not. However, I do not comment on this as rapporteur yet because of my observations or because of my comments and opinions, I am entered in a proper debate where I will communicate it in a little while. Now, in the role of rapporteur, I am merely stating that this amendment to the Act on Traffic on the Road goes in parallel with another amendment. It's law number 361, well-known to you the so-called point system, and I would just repeat it, so I will limit myself to a more brief performance, now the words of the translator. This amendment is proposed so quickly and at this time, let's say, aside from the large modification of the point system by a Member's proposal, because time is burning in quotation marks, and if it were not adopted here in the House, there would be a legal situation where, from 1 July, there would be a legal situation where, whatever we call them, one of the applicants, the clients would be obliged by law in quotation marks to undertake therapeutic courses, programs, but at that point in time, there would be no one to provide them, and the Members therefore propose postponement. This is probably the main, delaying effectiveness or starting therapeutic courses by eight months, for the 1st April of next year. I note that colleagues from the Economic Committee across the political spectrum are signed under the proposal, so they are not only members of the Coalition but also representatives of the opposition, the ANO movement and the SPD, and secondly I note that the Government has given a neutral opinion on this proposal, so it leaves a decision to the Chamber of Deputies. However, in the justification for this position, it notes a relatively certain number of errors and shortcomings, which I suppose, have been the reason for this not positive but neutral position, and calls on the House to be corrected or corrected where appropriate. So much for the opening word of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u5	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Tesařík is signed up. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I wish everyone a good afternoon. I, too, would like to follow up on my previous speakers, and I would like to ask you in my speech to support the parliamentary proposal amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on road traffic, which I am also a co-president of. The very substance of the proposal has already been summed up by the previous speakers, as I have already mentioned. I would just like to add and stress that the submitted amendment is based not only on the output of the expert meetings of the Ministry of Transport and the Centre for Transport Research as a future methodological centre, but also on the experience of already implemented and very successful projects focused on rehabilitation programmes, implemented gradually by the Centre for Transport Research over the past 13 years. A high number of offences, crimes, and death-related accidents are caused by just two groups of drivers: first of all, young drivers and recidivists, where 0.5 percent of the worst drivers are caused by 25 percent of major accidents. That is where this legislative proposal is headed primarily. Very interesting and favourable results were presented, for example, by the Programme for Aggressive and Sloppy Drivers under the auspices of the Probation and Mediation Services, which was implemented between 2011 and 2016. The evaluation, the pilot phase of the Probation and Mediation Service programme, where there were 45 runnings of the programme in 12 judicial districts of 2016, showed only 5% of the relapse of the perpetrators after 18 months of completion of the programme, where in groups of drivers without the program it would otherwise be in the order of 30 to 50 %. I am pleased that this amendment can bring into our lives a legal framework for measures that have been functioning reliably for many years in most European countries. It is very important that the legislation ensures effective setting up of the therapeutic programme system immediately after it is launched. During the preparatory work, some major shortcomings of both legal and factual nature have been identified in the current legislation, which need to be removed for the smooth start of this programme. Among the fundamental changes introduced by the amendment are the areas that have already been quoted here by the previous speakers. It is therefore the division of the effectiveness of the provisions constituting the regulation of therapeutic programmes into two stages so that they are actually feasible. Another change is the cancellation of the possibility of remission of remuneration for participation in the therapeutic programme. I consider this waiver to be a non-systemic measure that significantly reduces the preventive effect of therapeutic programmes while, at the same time, disproportionately increasing the personnel and financial costs of their organisation and implementation. The financial burden incurred by the remission of the remuneration could thus be passed on to other participants whose remuneration will not be remitted or would have to be recovered from the state budget in the form of a subsidy. There is also a strengthening of the coordination competences of the methodological centre, and it is important to formulate the missing transitional provisions of legislation as set out in the material. Some essential passages, the legislation shifts from the transposition legislation to the level of the law, such as determining the scope of the therapeutic programme or clear specification of the course management by one tutor, which reduces costs and increases the availability of the programme by participants. [[12.50 hours]] I am convinced that all the changes described above will make a significant contribution to the effective, smooth and successful launch of therapeutic programmes in the Czech Republic, and therefore their adoption is essential in view of the social significance and potential benefits of this institute. Please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u7	I also thank you, and others are entered into the general debate by Mr Kolovratník. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u8	Thank you for the floor, one more good afternoon, so now not as rapporteur, but as duly signed up for the debate. As we have announced or, as Mr. Speaker's representative has announced, I, as rapporteur, is requested that the proposal be approved in the 90s, i.e. in a shortened accelerated reading. Frankly, we were opposed to our opening position at the first time when we met the proposal, so we did not want to agree with it as opposition, but we were opposed to it, but to avoid straining, we finally agreed that with the 90th as opposition, so now I speak for the YES movement, and we will agree that for purely pragmatic reasons, but - maybe I will say or I will supplement it with such a big analogy - with very, very swayed eyes. It is because it is not our intention to block, either on purpose or at any cost, any such proposal from, say, only plesier or automatically as an opposition - I can follow up on the debate that we had here last night - but it is really relevant because of the fact that, in the proposal, in the text as it is prepared, there are unfortunately a number of legislative errors that are simply not ideal, whether in relation to the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, or they may also have potential risks to the law of the European Union. This concerns, for example, the moment when the Ministry or the Department of Transport proposes that these therapeutic programs be implemented here at the time and precisely one organization, which is the Centre of Transport Training, and why not another. Anyway, as I said a few seconds or minutes ago, we decided, in the end, to agree with these shortcomings. We have considered whether to propose a compromise, a standard legislative process with a shortening of all deadlines to the extent possible, but I recognise and agree that, in the knowledge of the length of the legislative process as well as in the sense of the Senate, the signature of the President is, at this point in time, quite at risk. And I would just repeat, if the change had not been adopted now, we would be in a situation where some of those infractions, authors of serious offenses, should be legally required, or from the court, also by law, to attend a course, a program that is not yet organized, which is physically not, and although we can say that those people, the transgressors who have committed this - do not be angry with me for the expression - there are no lambs, they are not saints, they are indeed pirates of roads who have committed the most serious offences, but even in such people the state should certainly be fair, correct, and if they are obliged to do so, logically they should also give them the possibility of fulfilling the obligation, whether under these or other conditions. In this spirit, we discussed with Minister Kupka yesterday, both the petitioners and we, representatives of the opposition. We will therefore agree to a brief discussion and vote today. But I will just briefly look at the Government's position, and I underline this, so it is not the position of us, the representatives of the opposition, but the position that I have to say here that the government, I assume primarily the Legislative Council of the Government, has actually worked out in a factual, correct and non-political way, and that should be said here. I quote quickly: 'The Government agrees with this intention to remedy the shortcomings' - as I said, as the petitioner said, and so did I - but the Government also notes that the proposal submitted does not take over the current treatment model, when implementation is set directly at legal level and is entrusted to a specific legal person, without having been properly assessed in accordance with European Union law. The Government or the Legislative Council of the Government is also critical of the explanatory statement in the explanatory report, and I quote briefly: "The issue of therapeutic programmes is not regulated by the law of the European Union and therefore does not conflict with it." This may not be a true statement and may potentially threaten, say, a breach or distortion of competition if, for example, a commercial entity would be interested in implementing this. You know they work on the market, whether it's driving school itself or the Driving School Association. Surely you can be famous for the Central Cartoon Club with a shortcut of the IAMK or Autoclub of the Czech Republic and others. For myself, knowing things personally, I'm sure it makes sense to me. The center of transport research in Brno is a scientific research institution, it is de facto independent, impartial, it is non-profitable and is in a way subordinate to the Ministry of Transport, it has logic when it is she who performs such a thing. But there's just this warning or warning about the risk that it could potentially or, let's say, theoretically be attacked. And maybe the second thing - I won't do everything for nothing - but the second thing that attracted me from all the eight comments of the Legislative Council is a reference to the implementing rules, to the decrees. Even here we record or can read in this official document a relatively critical statement that in the law, in the regulation, there is a very wide possibility, a lot of broad limits for the Ministry of Transport, whether it concerns the implementation of the courses, a description of the courses, how they will look, how large their scope will be, but also price formations, how large the price will be determined, all of this is left to a relatively broad will - forgive me the term - or, thanks to the Ministry's authorisation, only in the form of its own decrees, without any wider assessment of inter-ministerial proceedings and so on and so on. Today, a colleague here, an employee of the House, a colleague of the legislation, warned us that he, in fact, impartially and unpolitically, drew attention to the matter here. In any case, I will agree personally with Minister Kupka on this, so if we put potential risks on the scale against the risk of getting into a weird legal vacuum or state, I repeat, I tend not to block accelerated short-term discussions. First of all. And secondly, frankly, as an opposition member of the reform, the healing of government comments, I cannot, I do not have the capacity to secure it, so let us also take this as an appeal - the minister is here, he listens - let us take it as an appeal to the resort. This should probably go through some preparation by the government, by the Ministry, to minimize the risks. We told each other yesterday at the debate that Law No. 361 is now open, we have relatively plenty of time in relation to the point system, so, colleagues, certainly, if you would subsequently come up with some work-up, precision, we will be ready to take a look at it with you and within the framework of the agreement, which has therefore fallen today, or yesterday, to fine-tune this, let the whole system of new therapeutic programs work. Perhaps the last thing I'm going to say at this point, and it's also one of the arguments, for the reasons why we decided to end up with the support, is that the way it was originally set up, as it's now being directed to the 1st of July, it's the text that was prepared for us, under the previous government, in 2021. At the time, the author of the amendment was a colleague, Zuzana Ožanová, who deals with both transport issues in the Economic Committee and with legislative issues or questions from the Department of Justice on the Committee of Constitutional Law, so she co-authored the current situation with my knowledge that she was also the co-author of this parliamentary proposal. I think we'd be against each other if we were standing on our backs in quotation marks right now, blocking it for nothing, which is why we're not doing it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u9	Thank you, too, and I have one point in fact, Mrs Ožanová. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak - this is a replica of Mr Nacher, by your means, Madam President, however, my name has been mentioned, so I would just like to clarify what happened in the last parliamentary term. justice and judges were pushing for therapy programs for drivers. I have considered that the issue is okay, that it is right for road safety, and because, as Mr Kolovratník said, by your means, Madam President, I have dealt with the issue of transport to the Economic Committee, so within the constitutionally-legal committee, I have read the amendment. It is true that this was processed by the judiciary without consulting the Ministry of Transport. I would rather take this case into consideration or rather as a subject for the Prime Minister. Not only the previous government, even the current government suffers most certainly by the fact that sometimes the ministries do not work well together or want to work together on some things, so I think it would be better to work on the relations between the ministries, so that they can agree with each other and not deal with it through the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u11	Thank you for keeping the time and now with the application Mr Sládeček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Kolovratník said in detail what I had in mind and therefore lacks the sense for me to repeat it here. In our opinion, this regulation should be subject to a proper legislative process, but given that the timely approval of this legislation would put a number of our citizens in trouble, the SPD will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u13	Thank you, too, and another with the application is Mr Lochman. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u14	Good afternoon. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government and fellow Members, I will be very brief, because most of these arguments have already been made, both those for this proposal and the fine problems that this proposal brings, as mentioned by Mr Kolovratník. As co-chairor of this amendment, I would like to ask for your support. If you look at the therapy programs, some of them asked me if it was really necessary. Well, if we want safe roads and we want to help make our roads safer, these therapeutic programs will be first and foremost for those who seriously violate the laws of our country, and they are serious crimes, offences, and then these - as has already been said - road pirates, I would literally tell those who are not really the most pleasant drivers, such a therapeutic program will be imposed. And in addition to sanctions, we are also trying to educate the driver concerned, to work with him, so that he does not repeat the negotiations again. I will leave it at this general level, but I personally consider this part of our system, in addition to the sanctions, to have this part, i.e. educational, practical, psychological, very necessary, and I am glad that it has managed to find a consensus across the entire political spectrum. Thank you for this, too, to Minister Kupek, who tried to get us to sit at the same table looking for a joint agreement. And so, as I am sometimes very sharp to my colleagues from YES, I would like to thank you for finding an agreement on the so-called Section 90, and I believe that this amendment will be supported by this House, because it is not really about politics, but it is about the security of all of us on public roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u15	Thank you, too, and Minister Kupka is now registered with the application. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, just a very brief comment, most of the essentials have been made here. Sometimes we have to do things that don't make us happy, but they are absolutely necessary. This is one of these examples, because if we really could not solve the problem in the original, submitted and approved form by 30 June, it would mean that thousands of people who have already been effectively punished for their pirate ride, for the most serious violation of road rules, could not get back to their driver's licenses. That's why, in cooperation and after consultation, we're bringing in an adjustment that could fix this, which will fix it. At the same time, I would like to answer some of the expressed reservations. In view of the fact that the whole system, as it was loaded and approved, envisages the creation of an information system of public administration and requires the accreditation of lecturers, those who will carry out the very therapeutic courses, this can be very difficult to compete with. In this regard, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, the reservation is odd, in which case we will in no way oppose European legislation and European rules. I will mention that it can really be 1,500 drivers a month, who would have the right to recover the driving licence under existing laws, but it would not be possible, because the initial proposal by the MP did not allow the whole process, the whole technique well prepared, and could not do so for reasons of legal obstacles. That's why we're coming up with this adjustment. Of course, at the same time, a large regulation of Act No. 361, where it would possibly be possible to intervene and adjust what the House would, what you would find necessary. From the point of view of the Ministry of Transport and the relevant minister, I say that this is a really necessary step, a step which at this point is not really possible to question very much, but it is absolutely necessary to make this adjustment so that it can be fulfilled at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u17	Thank you, too, and I have one more point in fact from Mr Oklešťek. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u18	Thank you. I won't need two minutes, I just wanted to ask the Minister: I didn't understand the connection - a pirate ride, and I don't see a pirate here. Does it have any political correlation, or is it the nature of driving those drivers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u19	The Minister won't respond, thank you. I do not see anyone else in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Since there was no objection to the procedure under § 90, we will now decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 365 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 43, 168 Members and Members signed in for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore launch a detailed debate to which the rapporteur is reporting. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u20	I will only read in a detailed debate the proposal for legislative technical regulation, a small one that we have prepared here with the House of Legislation. So it's leg tech, which doesn't really change the contents of the law. This concerns part two, amendment of Act No. 220/2021, i.e. the one correcting or adapting this parliamentary proposal. The whole structure is built on three laws, on road traffic, on the Code of Criminal Procedure and on the Code of Criminal Procedure. The legislative technical regulation reads as follows, so that the renumbering is correct and follow-up: In Part Two, Amendment to Act No. 220/2021 Coll., Art. III, the following point 3 is added: "in Part 14 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, XV, the point in parentheses 2 is deleted'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-004-090.u21	Thank you, too. Again, I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? Given that only legislative technical adjustments can be loaded, this is probably not the case. I am ending the debate in detail. I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words? It's not like that. So now we will be the first to vote on the proposed legislative technical amendments. I'm just gonna ask the House if you want to reload them? They were here a moment ago. I see there's no need. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 168 Members and Members signed in for 145, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Stanislav Blaha, Ondřej Lochman, Jiří Slavík and others to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 220/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure, as amended, Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, Act No. 257/2000 Coll., on Probation and Mediation Service and on Amendment of Act No. 2/1969 Coll., on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, as amended, Act No. 65/1965 Coll., Labour Code, as amended and Act No. 359/1999 Coll., on Social-Legal Protection of Children, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House's Press 365. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 45, Mr 168 Members and Members, in favour of 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have already agreed to the bill at first reading. I am opening another point - just recalling the agreement of the Presidents of all Members' clubs that we will continue to discuss paragraphs 104 and 106, and only then, after the discussion of paragraph 106, would an item which was originally firmly placed at 13 o'clock - item number
