ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u1	98. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence /public press 462/ - first reading We interrupted this item at the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 27 June 2023. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, who is already sitting there, as well as the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Marek Ženíšek. We will continue with the interrupted general debate to which Members have applied... I also have one comment. The hearing was adjourned after Mr Marek Benda's resignation with priority rights. I now have Mr Karel Sládeček's application here, and I would like Mr Michal Zuna to prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the signed Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence. The Czech Republic has been a member of NATO since 1999 and we did not need a similar contract for 24 years. Citizens of the Czech Republic have a negative experience with the residence of foreign troops in our territory, see temporary residence of Soviet troops in the territory of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, which has extended for 21 long years. The SPD movement does not want any foreign soldiers in the Czech Republic, neither Russian, nor American, nor Chinese, nor Indian, nor... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Czech yes. Such a serious issue should be decided by all citizens in a national referendum and not by a government that does not represent most voters because a million votes have fallen. I would also like to remind you that no five-calice party had a treaty with the US in its electoral programme. Why do you think? Because they wouldn't make it to the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u3	Thank you. The next envoy is Mr Zuna and Mr Jan Hrnčíř will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also briefly comment on the press under discussion on the ratification of the defence agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States. This is a defence agreement that follows up on a document that regulates the cooperation between individual NATO defence alliance Member States, of which we have been bound by this treaty for 23 years or by this treaty, NATO SOFA, which also allows bilateral relations between countries to be set up, which is what is happening. I am sorry that this is happening after so long, but I am very glad that it is already happening. We will be the 25th country to ratify the bilateral treaty in this way within the defence alliance. Despite the fact that it regulates only some parameters such as the performance of the United States Armed Forces' tasks in the Czech Republic, including the eleven spaces and military facilities, it is a treaty that the Czech Republic needs for many reasons, and precisely to ensure its security, its sovereignty, in order to fulfil the fact that it is an integral part of the Western democratic world, so as not to repeat any historical events, so that the Czech Republic is not threatened by events that we can follow east of us, whether they are events from 2008 in Georgia, 2014 in Crimea and the east of Ukraine or from February 2022 within practically the entire territory of Ukraine. I believe that if we did not ratify such a treaty, the Czech Republic could be threatened sometime in the future, in some hypothetical years, such as 2028 or 2032, by the Russian aggression that is happening today in Ukraine. And it doesn't matter if these were countries in the Baltics, Poland or the Czech Republic in these years. This means that I fully welcome and support this treaty and ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u5	Thank you. Mr Hrnčíř will now appear, and before I give him my word, I will read the apologies. Pekarová Adamová Markéta apologizes from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Andrej Babiš from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Fiala Radim from 15 o'clock for personal reasons, Nacher Patrik from 15 o'clock for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year 55 years have passed since the troops of the Warsaw Treaty entered our country at the invitation of some representatives of the then ruling Communist Party. I never, ever thought that this government, which likes to act democratic, would take an example from the Communist side and invite foreign troops into our country. This time it's the U.S. troops. And yet it did. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová signed a treaty on defence cooperation with the USA, which allows for the residence of American soldiers and the formation of American bases on our territory. I would also like to stress that this Treaty is binding on our Republic and cannot be terminated for ten years. This is another huge breakthrough in our country's sovereignty and, of course, a major security risk. I would now like to draw you closer to some of the questions surrounding this treaty. Firstly, the contract was approved in complete silence and for lack of interest to the media. At the end of April this year, the government met and approved the text of the Treaty without, however, informing it in advance of its discussion. The silence in the media was also omnipotent. This is a document that will fundamentally affect the lives of the people of our country, but the government and the media have remained silent. Second, American bases will be fully in the jurisdiction of the United States of America. The Treaty provides that the Czech Republic expressly waives, at the request of the USA and in order to fulfil its obligation to defend one another, the preferential right to exercise criminal jurisdiction. At the same time, the government is proposing a change to the constitution, which would allow it to decide, without any further steps now needed, to stay foreign troops on our territory for up to 60 days, with the possibility that the 60 days can be extended repeatedly. Both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate could only take the whole process into account without the possibility to intervene in any way. This is an absolute hacking of the democratic principles of this state. With this amendment of the Constitution, it would also be possible to create American bases on our territory without Parliament's approval again and without the possibility of preventing it from happening again by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Extensive territories are already being defined to serve the needs of the U.S. military. The Czech Republic voluntarily transmits its land over which it will no longer have any control. Soldiers and employees on the bases will not be subject to our jurisdiction, and the government will even voluntarily give up taxes, as these people will be subject to a special regime. [[15.10 hours]] At the invitation of our government, the US will take up three military airports, extensive training facilities and other territories that will continue to fully fall under US control virtually without the possibility of Czech citizens entering and without Parliament's ability to enter this process, if there is a change in the constitution, in any way to intervene. These are all the main reasons why the approval of the defence treaty between the Czech Republic and the USA and the approval of the amendment to the Constitution are unacceptable, and I am not afraid to say that it is treasonous. Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u7	Thank you. And with a point of fact, Mr Krejza. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u8	Madam President, colleagues - although not many of us are here - I have to respond to the constant attacks from my colleagues here on my left. To compare this voluntary contract, which doesn't have anything to do with what has been said here by my previous speaker, that is, we don't give anything to anyone, it doesn't create any right to the base and so on, and so on. Everything must be subsequently approved by Parliament. You've heard it here several times. And comparing this contract with the letter of invitation from 1968 really seems inappropriate to me, and I must strongly reject it. I hope that this Treaty will be approved, it will be approved soon. I want to belong in person, and my colleagues certainly do, rather in the Western part of the world. And it's actually a logical conclusion and continuation of our NATO membership and NATO SOFA contract, which, by the way, has been in place since the year - and now 1951 I think I'm not wrong too much, just from the 1950s. And I don't see anything special about it. By the way, we'll be the 24th country that has this. Of course, that alone is nothing that obliges us to accept it. But colleagues, colleagues, I hope that this will happen and the treaty will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radovan Vích will now appear in the debate and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me, too, to speak in the debate with my speech. The important thing here was said by our Members with priority rights, whether our President Tomio Okamura or the President of Radim Fiala. Still, I dare point out a few things. The agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence hides a number of serious risks and is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic for several reasons, which I will explain further. Firstly, the agreement is redundant for ordinary purposes of stay due to exercises, transits, crossings, flights and flights of the armed forces of the USA through the territory of the Czech Republic. This is already sufficiently regulated by the valid NATO SOFA agreement to which the Czech Republic has acceded. It governs relations between NATO members, including their possible presence in the territory of another NATO Member State. On its basis, the Government also presents to the House a plan for the exercise of NATO armed forces both in our territory and in our troops in the territory of other NATO Member States, as well as a plan for the participation of the armed forces of the Czech Republic in foreign operations, which is now submitted once every two years, is regularly discussed in the House. The defence agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States represents an advantage of one NATO state, which is the United States of America, to other NATO allies. The main difference is that NATO SOFA represents support for exercises and short stays, no defence agreement is discussed, but it creates conditions for a clearly long-term stay of US armed forces in the territory of the Czech Republic. However, he does not expect anything similar regarding the stay of the armed forces of the Czech Republic in the USA. So it's not reciprocal. It is therefore only a unilaterally advantageous contract, or agreement, and not for the Czech Republic. On its basis, citizens of the Czech Republic will be forced to suffer various restrictions, while the benefits go to the American Contracting Party. I'll go over that in detail. The agreement is also a framework, which means that the individual details will be adjusted by other contracts and arrangements. Two. The agreement means partial loss of control over the territory of the Czech Republic. The annex to the Defence Agreement contains a list of eleven agreed facilities and premises in which the United States can operate. They were listed here. Finally, there is probably the main assumed assignment of the U.S. armed forces in the Czech Republic, a logistics center in Mošnov, where the forces of the Czech Army will actually be able to operate without US armed forces operating there at the same time, if we are talking about military training areas and airports. I would remind you that, for example, Libavou has already dislocated the armed forces of Ukraine in a small number of up to 4,000 persons per calendar year in five tours of 800. But no number limit is set for the U.S. armed forces. So it might as well be 10,000, maybe more. The deal doesn't make any difference. Three. Let us address the costs of staying with us in the United States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 of the Agreement states that the Czech Republic will provide all agreed facilities and premises without rent or similar costs for the armed forces of the USA. Moreover, the Czech Republic undertakes to make efforts to facilitate US armed forces and US suppliers access and use of private land and facilities and public land and equipment. In both cases, including roads and airports. The agreement directly contains a mandate for carrying out construction activities for the American party on the Czech territory. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7 to 12, and we all know very well what a problem it is for any construction in the Czech Republic to obtain all permits and how long it takes, and here at once - I quote from para. 8 - "The Czech executive body will support the efforts of the US armed forces by providing the Czech authorizations and permissions needed for such construction" And there is another tricky provision about who will bear the cost of the construction, operation and maintenance. In principle, the United States looks like it at first sight, but there is also a formulation - unless otherwise specified by each other. So we may not even know about this, at least not in Parliament, or the public will not know, and quietly our taxpayers will pay for this construction or maintenance. Four. It is important to address the issue of the length of stay of the US armed forces in the Czech Republic. Clearly, the extensive and long-term presence of the US Armed Forces in the Czech Republic is expected, because the subject of the agreement is residence of family members, duty-free regime, substantial tax exemptions and customs duties are for those family members and so-called United States suppliers, i.e. other civilians who will provide the operation of the agreed facilities and premises, but will only be subject to US military command in the territory of the Czech Republic. As far as I know, in Hungary, there, in the agreement, they negotiated another arrangement that their citizens would be the commander of the foreign base. There is no such thing in this agreement, and we will see how it will then be, if this agreement is approved, in other implementing documents. This is, in my view, an unprecedented scope of advantage, which can only be compared to the long-term stay of Soviet troops in Czechoslovakia. And as we see in Slovakia, which has recently signed a similar defense agreement with the US, it is not just some meaningless agreement. Practically right after it was signed, there was the location of the armed US in Slovakia and the implementation of the defense agreement, even if they had an agreement only on Sliač and Malacky. There are already the first conflicts between members of the armed forces and local residents. We see that the Slovak government is trying to cover them up, but gradually something is getting into the media. Five. Provisions on legal disputes and criminal prosecutions are very important. In civil disputes, this is an unprecedented weakening of the rights of Czech citizens towards the armed forces of the US, their civilian collaborators and family members. Apart from diplomats and occupation forces, such a favourable status in the history of Czechoslovakia, subsequently the Czech Republic, no group of persons received. Imagine that people who will benefit from this advantage will be free to leave the Czech Republic with documents only from the United States, leave, bring with them what they see fit, including weapons, ammunition, etc. The taxes and duties of the Czech State will not apply only with some exceptions to the type of road signs where this is unlikely to be avoided or, for example, VAT on goods in shops, but here again there will be an exemption from VAT for business purposes, see Art. 16. Military food stores will be able to operate, open catering facilities not subject to inspections by the Czech Republic according to Art. 21. Any customs inspection will be accelerated, in a number of cases only at the place of residence of such person - imported or exported personal property. Here, in practice, it can be imagined that more will be abandoned, but many things will be avoided by the customs inspection. The agreement also avoids the word base. Instead, it uses the concepts of equipment and spaces. Which the Czech Republic is to provide free of charge. As another problem area is the absence and rejection of the interpretation clause by the Ministry of Defence. This clause is part of the agreement in Slovakia, where the interpretation clause was eventually adopted. Its content has been explicitly stated that the document does not establish military bases. So if the DOD refuses, it's clear that he's probably thinking in a different direction. [[15.20 hours]] I am also convinced that such a crucial matter must be discussed only on the basis of the results of the national referendum. The idea that in eleven locations objects are being built in the direction of the US, which will have the character of the embassy, so we do not have access to it, we do not know who is there, what material is there, what activities are being done there, is unacceptable to me. The conclusion of this Agreement is neither the content of the Government's programming declaration. It is also necessary to mention the fact that there are a number of petitions from citizens of the Czech Republic against the establishment of a US military base on the territory of the Czech Republic. For example, our petition contains the following text: "We below-signed citizens express a negative opinion on the intention to establish a US military base in the territory of the Czech Republic. The establishment of a foreign military base on our territory is a major intervention in the autonomy of any country. We do not agree with the permanent presence of any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic and we ask the Government of the Czech Republic not to make arbitrary decisions on this matter and to issue a national referendum on this matter." Only this petition has thousands of signatures to date, and there are several similar petitions. At the same time, I am not convinced of the public support agreement. But only I got dozens, hundreds of e-mails asking for her clear rejection. The government simply does not explain it to the citizens and has not allowed the debate to take place during approval. Another problem is the area of peace and order. It follows from the agreement that if there were disturbances and disturbances in the peace and order against the presence of US armed forces in these 11 locations, the US armed forces may be deployed to combat the unrest, even outside these eleven locations. This is also completely unacceptable. The deal is done for ten years. It can be denounced, but only after those ten years, plus the notice period is one whole year. This is therefore an unimaginable commitment for other governments without the possibility to do anything about it. Unlike the Slovak defence agreement, the Czech version does not have such clear provisions on annual consultations and evaluations. Consultations are contained in it only for specific problems. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 5, where it is possible for Czech parties to request the departure of a US supplier, but the US's commitment in this case is only to cooperate appropriately, not to comply automatically. What puzzles me greatly is the provision of Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 6 - I quote: "Contributions and other matters which are subject to consultations under this Agreement shall not be submitted for settlement to any national court, as well as to an international court, tribunal or similar body, or to any other third party." This is a completely non-standard and especially for the Czech Republic as a weaker party to a disadvantageous provision. As regards the legal point of view, the agreement is now in the phase that it is signed by both Contracting Parties and awaits its entry into force. It's startling that the Secretary of Defense has left to sign the agreement without the agreement being discussed nationally enough. In fact, the text of the agreement was published shortly before, and inadequately, which, in my view, is simply unbelievable for an agreement of such importance for at least ten years. When the agreement was negotiated with us, one A4 format paper was submitted by the Ministry of Defence from 38 pages of the agreement, which stated on one side why the contract was concluded, the other was stated who was involved in the agreement and the list of chapters. On the contrary, we have handed over to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence a number of reservations about the Slovak agreement, which has already been published in contrast to the Czech one. I am convinced that this cannot be done seriously and the content of the agreement needs to be explained, especially to the public, not to discuss it without publication by the government and subsequently only to publish it on the Ministry of Defence's website after approval. In fact, the entry into force of the agreement only matters to Parliament and then to the State Department, when it informs the other party that all national procedures have been met. On the 30th day following the exchange of the notes of both Contracting Parties, the agreement becomes valid, according to Czech law we would say effectiveness. Then, according to her, both parties can proceed immediately. Because it is a presidential type of treaty, Parliament also approves it in the Chamber of Deputies. So it will be the subject of two readings. Prime Minister Petr Fiala publicly stated that the agreement will be signed by the President of the Republic. End of závěr. If I had to briefly sum it up in a few words: This agreement is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, very difficult to report after ten years and unreviewable. In addition, it does not necessarily restrict the jurisdiction of the Czech Republic to certain persons in the territory of the Czech Republic. Finally, there is no quantitative limit, i.e. how many soldiers, their family members, or suppliers from the US can come here and what they can bring with them. Similar to guns and ammo. We don't need this deal, it would do more negative than good. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the approval of this agreement, we are becoming vassals and, at the same time, there is a restriction on our sovereignty. The treaty avoids many clear words, such as the base, and replaces them with ambiguous words, such as an object. So if an American soldier commits a crime and causes damage, it will most likely be dealt with in the United States under their law, as well as in dealing with property damage. Objects can edit, pick up anything, but we don't have a chance to control them. The DCA Agreement is, by its nature, an agreement on the free provision of eleven premises of the Army of the Czech Republic for the purposes of the United States Army for ten years. The ratification process should be preceded by at least a social debate and also a national plebiscite. That is not the case. Please consider, honourable Members, any reservations about this agreement that I made in my speech, and please follow your best conscience in voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now two factual points. First, Mr Zuna, then Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I want to respond to the previous output, but more or less to the outputs that were here during yesterday's day, because it is here as a line it compares with the presence of the occupying forces in 1968 compared to the ratification of this agreement. That's something totally unacceptable and something that is completely incomparable. How can you compare the presence of the occupying forces, which were responsible for 137 dead citizens and over 500 injured citizens of Czechoslovakia? What you're actually saying here and what you're comparing here is spit in the face of all the survivors of these victims. More or less the occupation was the Soviet Union, the successor country is Russia. Russia has been identified here as a terrorist regime. And even for that reason, it's completely incomparable. Russia as a terrorist regime, a country that attacks a country every 6 to 15 years or starts a war in it. To compare the presence of these troops with the presence of allied forces - and we are still talking about the hypothetical presence of allied troops, which would protect us from this threat within an alliance, which we are practically 22, 23 years of age - is impossible and is incomparable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u13	Thank you. Mr Žáček, then Mr Kolář, is now in a factual position. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u14	Thank you for the floor. I also feel the need to express myself so that a hundred times repeated lie doesn't become the truth about the alleged disadvantage. What is the disadvantage when we have the largest partner in NATO and adjust with it the detailed conditions of transit, the transfer of their soldiers, for example, between Germany and other Eastern wing states? That's what I think - they want to help us in NATO. They are the strongest army that is ready to stand up for Europe again, as was the case in World War I and World War II. So the downside isn't here. It's not like we're sending our soldiers somewhere in their territory or in the opposite direction. To those bases. As has been said here x-times, but I know it's a mantra SPD - nowhere is it said that American bases will be built here. But once again, we are a NATO member state, we are an NATO army, and our objects are NATO objects. So it's also open, and here it's redesigned to allied soldiers if we need it. In the end, the fact that only dozens or hundreds of citizens write you emails is actually good news. I don't think it's necessary to comment at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Kolář with a point of fact, then Mr Vích. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u16	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. By your means, I might ask my colleagues at the SPD to end the petition that was mentioned here. If this petition is against the construction of American bases, I think it lacks meaning and is actually a lie. This contract is not about the construction of American bases in the Czech Republic. So if I may again, by your means, Madam President: dear colleagues from the SPD, throw the petition in the trash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u17	Thank you. Mr Vích will respond with a factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will respond to the speech of my colleague Žáček and Mr Kolář. Then I ask, what is NATO really about, if we have a NATO SOFA contract, we know what is item 4, we know what Article 5 is, we know that there is a Host Nation Support, so then I ask, what are we doing here? Why do we make this deal when we're part of NATO? I just think the contract, or the deal, is useless, I've already made my point here, and it's disadvantageous for us. As far as Mr Kolář is concerned - on the contrary, we continue to collect the signatures under the petition, and I see no reason for us to end the petition in any way. So thank you. That's all on my side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u19	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, Minister Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. As I promised yesterday, I will always respond at intervals to my previous speakers. Maybe I'd start with what my colleague Hrnčíř said here. I don't know if he was in the O.R. when I was performing yesterday, but how he said that we didn't discuss the deal with anyone and that we were secretly putting something on the government - it's not true, Mr Hrnčíř, through Madam Vice-President. Before the government acted, we gave information about the contents of the treaty to our opponents. It was clear when it was going to the government, and I informed through your colleague, Mr Vích, that it should go to the government in April. So nothing like that is true. Mr Hrnčíř also mentioned the amendment of the Constitution, the article 43. That's what I said last night. The amendment to the Constitution is here somewhere in a second reading, I myself have read the amendment to make the possible amendment to Article 43 valid only from the new parliamentary term, i.e. the House as a souvenir, or Parliament as a souvenir, to decide whether it wants to give this power to the new government, which will emerge from the ordinary or extraordinary elections. That's all. Fair enough. We're not changing anything at this point, no Article 43. But the fact that we need to send troops in case a citizen of the Czech Republic is abducted to a country is a fact that is - and you as a backup colonel, my colleague Vích, will surely be right about this. Now, if I follow up on what my colleague here said, Mr Vích, that we should send some of our Czech soldiers to the United States of America. I haven't noticed such a request yet, and I don't think I'm going to notice it, and I find it more humorous than being serious. That the DCA agreement doesn't modify the numbers? It's okay. After all, we are all repeating over and over that no soldier will ever come here without Parliament approving the classic mandate of both Parliament's chambers. You haven't been here for a week. I mean, you've been here repeatedly in your term of office, so you have this information, and you know how often we discuss committees' mandates. We're discussing the mandates, both the broadcasts and the admissions. So there will never be a number here, and there is no number in any DCA, because when the constitution is similar in character to our constitution, Parliament decides to accept or send soldiers. And it's quite good, and I don't think there's ever been a will to change anything about this. That my colleague Vích is surprised by the length of the operation? Well, aren't you surprised when you voted for the Brit here? That you're not surprised that you're voting for a ten-year stay at BMATT in Vyškov? That didn't surprise you? Does that surprise you now? That you raised your hand twice in succession as SPD, or Dawn and SPD, so that British soldiers would stay here for five years - once and then again in 2020? And you also voted in favour, through Madam President. So at all your sentence that you're all here at the SPD saying that you're against any soldier's whereabouts here, that's not the case. You voted for it! So don't act like hypocrites or populists. That it's not a good time for you, so now you're gonna say that Američan aren't? The Brit do, don't the Američan? Look at the vote. I mean, I read your names here last night. About what my colleague Vích said, there are some tax discounts. Yeah, you're, I suppose, as a soldier he was in foreign structures, and you certainly know that if you were in the United States, based on your ID, you could have used the so-called military discount in some stores. So you can apply it in America, but Američan in the Czech Republic can't apply it? Why? That they won't pay for the bases? That's what I mentioned yesterday. I think that the United States' contribution to defence and security in Europe is huge and it would be outrageous for us to ask them to pay for more funds. As to what was said here, you said you had little time to get to know the treaty. The government approved the contract on April 26, 2023. On the same day, 26 April 2023, she was published on the website of the Ministry of Defence including questions and answers. The Treaty, Mr Vích, signed on 23 May 2023, almost one month after we published the Treaty, through Madam President. Is it not enough time for you to get to know this contract? I think we have a lot less reading and law-making here at the time. You've had a luxury time here for almost a month. Let me also respond to what was said here yesterday by the President of the Fiala Club, and today, in some other modification, a colleague of Vích has actually repeated it. Yesterday, the President of the SPD, Fiala, Chairman of the SPD Fiala, said that Hungary, too, had accepted an interpretation clause on the DCA. My colleagues approached their Hungarian counterparts, and the conclusion is that it is not true. It's a lie! The Hungarian DCA of 2019 was not subject to any interpretation clause. Why are you lying to us here, colleagues? Mr Fiala's claim that the Maďar have also mentioned that a Hungarian officer will always be the commander of the U.S. base in Hungary. That's funny. You just said it here, too, and you're the backup colonel! Oh, my God, of course it's gonna be like that. Because if I say so on our terms, if we agree that the Američan need to have a warehouse in Čáslav, then of course Čáslav will continue to be the base of the Army of the Czech Republic and its commander will be a member of the Army of the Czech Republic. How could you possibly think of anything else? Why are you stressing here that it should be different? No one would have thought of that. Then you said something about Slovakia. So here, just to be clear: the Czech DCA has nothing to do with strategic dialogue with the US like the Slovak one, because we have had such dialogue for many years. So it's completely unnecessary for this to be dealt with in the contract.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u21	Thank you. Your speech, Madam Secretary, raised one factual remark by Mr Vích. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u22	Thank you. I'll respond to your performance, Madam Secretary. You have inaccurate information. I've never been to the United States, I haven't been there on business, and I haven't been there in private, nor do I ever want to go there. That's what I'm saying. So it's just that you're saying inaccurate things here. Second, as regards the interpretation clause, the President of Radim Fiala, here, has said nothing about the interpretation clause by Hungary. He said here that in those other implementing regulations or agreements there's a contractual arrangement that the commander of the base will be Maďar. It's nothing to do with an interpretive clause. And third, I already said it here yesterday. I wasn't here in 2015. And I made it clear here that in 2020, we voted in favour of BMATT, we voted in favour of the 30 people who will be here for five years, but at the same time, we took into account that this is based on NATO format, the European Union, the Partnership for Peace, which is 52 states, with instructors and training. And we didn't have a problem with that in principle. You can't compare this to the same level as the DCA agreement! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u23	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u24	No, I just want to respond to the fact that you were talking about the whereabouts of foreign soldiers. You didn't talk about the DCA here. You're all here as one man, and some women say the SPD doesn't want foreign soldiers. And I'm telling you, you voted for him. About America. You've worked in structures, I don't know exactly what countries you've been in, but I think military discount is probably not just an exception in the United States for soldiers when they prove to be soldiers within the North Atlantic Alliance. But I don't know exactly, so I'm not gonna argue with you about it. In any case, a colleague of mine, Fiala, mentioned it. Play the tape yesterday, take the shade. He mentioned Slovakia and mentioned Hungary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u25	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mr Zlínský, Mr Rudolf Salvetr will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u26	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to introduce you to my position on the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence. I confess that I am not an expert on military matters, but I have always been interested in this issue. I'm not even an expert on international agreements, but it's already been mentioned here, I think you've all noticed that we're getting a lot of emails and people are asking us a lot of questions. And I tried to make a compilation of the most important questions, and I'm going to try to quote from the contracts and by looking at the quote to those people in some way, because maybe a lot of them are watching it, here's the deal. And, of course, I'm going to expect a counterparty, especially the secretary, to respond to that, and somehow explain it to those people. The Treaty is intended to allow the United States Army to operate in the territory of the Czech Republic for several purposes. One of them is to ensure the security of the Czech Republic. In the public media, it has been announced through the Director of the BIS, who spoke about this at the Internal Security and Resistance Seminar in our House, that it is necessary to distinguish between the normal political debate that belongs to democracy and the misinformation attacks of the pro-Russian actors against the agreement or the people behind it. This can also be analysed by carefully monitoring the BIS, which Members will oppose the treaty and how they will argue. From my point of view, it is unacceptable to pressure the BIS on Members who have been elected as representatives who do not currently wish to approve - citizens, i.e. - who do not currently wish to approve the Treaty for various reasons, without anyone having anything to do with the Russian Federation or being directly influenced by its representatives. I would also like to know where the current political debate ends and where the misinformation attacks of pro-Russian actors begin. No instructions, i.e. fortunately, for this distinction, or precedent (?) I couldn't find it. And this leads me to the idea of retroactivity in the assessment of this issue, and thus to the possible concern of many Members of the open expression of their opinion because of their possible dehonestation as the Russian fifth column. So I'm curious to know which category I'm going to fall into. Then I'll keep going. Each step that can lead to escalation in any dispute must be evaluated by the opponent reacting with the next step to beat the step of his rival, which can lead to dangerous and exponential escalation with a devastating to catastrophic impact on both sides. The possible and very likely deployment of U.S. military troops closer to the border of the Russian Federation creates pressure on this state, which will certainly respond adequately, which will lead to further escalation of already high tensions not only in Central Europe, but also in the entire Eurasian region and also in the world. The basic question that we must ask ourselves is also what types of weapons systems will eventually be - I am not saying that they are now, but maybe dislocated in the territory of the Czech Republic, in order to become a sufficient threat to the Russian Federation. How many of these weapons will be defensive, how aggressive, including nuclear weapons and their delivery systems. It's one of the concerns that the citizens send me in the e-mails, so that's why I'm mentioning it here. It follows that our territory will be on the list of primary military targets of the Russian Federation. And I'm asking if this reality will improve or make our security worse in the future if it does? I would mention here one precedent that occurred in 1983, you probably already know where I'm going, when in 1983, according to the information in our country, rocket carriers of SS-20's nuclear weapons were dislocated, according to historians' research, they were SS-12 rockets, not SS-20, Soviet provenience as a reaction to the deployment of the performance-like Pershing missiles in Western Europe. To date, however, it is not clear or nuclear charges have been dislocated in our territory into these missiles. However, if these charges were dislocated in our territory, they were most likely stored in the areas that were controlled by Soviet troops on our territory. This situation then led to an extraordinary escalation of tensions in Central Europe, which was resolved only by the agreement between the top representatives of the United States of America and the Soviet Union in the late 1980s. And so I would now look at the treaty, the specific quotes, whether it will be possible without direct public control to deploy any offensive weapons on our territory, including weapons of mass destruction. Consider Article 4 - placement of defensive equipment, supplies and material. With full respect for the sovereignty and laws of the Czech Republic, including its international legal obligations, the U.S. armed forces can transport, place and store to agreed facilities and spaces and other places under mutual agreement - and it is true that there is a written defensive equipment, that is indeed there, supplies and material. Of course, I couldn't find the definition of defensive equipment. The U.S. Armed Forces will inform the Czech executive body in advance of the types, numbers, delivery schedules of such equipment that the US armed forces intend to transport or place in the territory of the Czech Republic, as well as suppliers of the USA and Czech suppliers who carry out such supplies. The Parties or their executive bodies shall consult and coordinate the activities referred to in this Article as necessary. So, if I understand correctly, the U.S. representative or authority will only announce what it will transfer to our authority. The armed forces of the US will have exclusive control over access, use and handling of this located material and will have unlimited right at any time to remove this located material from the territory of the Czech Republic. [[15.50 hours]] Three. The Executive Authorities shall establish procedures concerning the access of the Czech authorities for exceptional security or other reasons to the agreed facilities and premises or parts thereof which were intended for exclusive use by the US Armed Forces. - If I try to analyze it as a layman, so that the authorities responsible must agree, which are the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic and the United States of America, both must agree whether it is an emergency situation and therefore whether the Czech authorities can enter the agreed facilities and possibly carry out some checks there. So the only thing I'm there, I confess, I've analyzed it this way, so in one way or another, the Czech authorities can somehow check what's actually on those bases. Article 11. Movement of aircraft, vessels, vehicles. Aircraft, vessels and vehicles operated by or exclusively for the armed forces of the USA may enter, move to the territory of the Czech Republic and leave it under conditions of respect for relevant rules on safety, protection and movement in the field of aviation, inland navigation and inland transport. It will not be possible to board or inspect such aircraft, vessels and vehicles without the consent of the United States of America. In any case, the public will not be informed of the type of weapons and ammunition of the United States Army of America dislocated in the territory of the Czech Republic. I assume it's classified. The question is whether our responsible authorities, to whom the contract provides very limited control during storage in special cases and not during transport, will be informed. And now another question that the citizens often ask me. Citizens fear that the military forces of the United States Army can engage in our territory for the benefit of supported political or opinional forces. I was trying to find something there to confirm that. Article 3 Access to agreed facilities, premises and their use. Point 1. With full respect for the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, the armed forces of the USA, suppliers of the USA, Czech suppliers, dependants and other persons under mutual agreement are entitled to the undisturbed access and use of agreed facilities and premises for the purposes of... And now there are a lot of these purposes, and I'm going to pick three that seem a little suspicious to me: security support and cooperation activities - not specified; dealing with crisis situations - I think that such a crisis situation may also be civil unrest, but maybe I am wrong. And for those purposes on which the parties or their executive bodies agree. Well, that's a lot of rubber. Anything can hide under it. But I say, I'm happy to have it explained and disproved that my concerns and concerns of these citizens are unfounded. Now here are the unfortunate bases of the United States of America. As it has been said repeatedly, I'm not gonna be able to rehash this place anymore, it's been dropped a few times. I'm gonna try to read the article because maybe some of you haven't read it. Article 3 Access to agreed facilities, premises and their use. It's point 2. The Parties shall use the agreed facilities and premises jointly and shall have common access to them, with the exception of those agreed facilities and spaces or parts thereof which have been specifically designated by the executive authorities for exclusive access and use by the US Armed Forces. Now, what is it, the equipment and the premises? They mark the facilities and premises in the territory of the Czech Republic, the inventory of which is contained in Annex A - and I will no longer read this to you here, our Vice-President here has read this agreement - provided by the Czech Republic under the terms of this agreement by the armed forces of the USA, US suppliers, Czech suppliers, dependants and other persons under mutual agreement. In order to support these activities and purposes, the Czech Republic authorises the U.S. Armed Forces to control the entry into the agreed facilities and premises or parts thereof which have been provided for exclusive use by the U.S. Armed Forces. Point 6. The Czech Republic will provide all agreed facilities and premises without rent or similar costs for the armed forces of the USA. So from my point of view, the Prime Minister is right. There won't be a U.S. base, but a set of facilities and premises. And whoever finds the difference except the title, I'll be glad if they fill me in. I understand, of course, that the agreed facilities will be occupied by the United States troops sometime in the future, but given the security situation that it is, it can be expected to happen. And then from my point of view, whether we call it what we want, the equipment or the base, it's just going to be the space where the U.S. troops are going to be placed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u27	Thank you. She'll respond with the Prime Minister's priority right. Excuse me, I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, we've still got the facts here, so you have to wait. Thank you for your patience. Mr Horák, then Mr Žáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u28	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would have responded briefly, too. She sounds not only today, but also yesterday a lot of misinformation. And as the previous speaker said, we also have e-mails coming in, and they are right now, there are responses to the misinformation, and those citizens are asking about the bases, the location of the soldiers, the missile defense, the anti-missile systems. And that's what they're asking because that's what it sounds like in this House. For two days there's information that soldiers will be stationed here, bases will be created here. And it's not true. So the misinformation, it just comes out here, and the more trusting and sensitive people are reacting to it, and that's what they're worried about. Of course, it is a technical contract that regulates certain technical and legal specifications, which I am currently operating. And on some historical issues, let's say. Compared to the occupation in 1968, when foreign tanks used to ride here, our people were shot and killed, with some technical contract notabene signed by 24 states of the North Atlantic Alliance, that is - well, it's either total ignorance of history, or it's really textbook demagogy. Or are you saying that in those 24 states that signed this contract, that's where American tanks go and kill people? That's such nonsense! How can you say that? But a man in a year and a half in this House really gets used to the haunting. It's like when we were here for hours and nights in the winter, and we were talking about the pandemic law that it was the end of democracy and totalitarianism, dictatorship. Where is it? Where's the talk? Is there an excuse? Is it gonna ring? Doesn't it? So it's scaring people. [[Time.]] And I don't think that scaring people is fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u29	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Žáček, then Mr Zlínský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would have responded to one question from my previous speaker. Through you, of course. Because we here behind this counter are protected by immunity, and we have indemnity, so the stupidest thing, the most misinformation, the greatest nonsense here can be heard. And what threatens you is that you will be publicly labeled as the spreader of stupidity, the spreader of misinformation and the spreader of delusions that you are trying to influence our public. That's all. So once again, immunity, indemnity, unfortunately, entitles some of our colleagues to say anything here, except at some point in vulgarity. And we must, of course, confront this in some way democratically and disprove it, given that you have some influence on the public after all. Even if they only write you tens or hundreds of e-mails.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u31	Thank you. Mr Zlínský is signed up with another de facto, and Mrs Maříková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u32	Colleagues, colleagues, I understand, of course, that this treaty is a kind of technique to allow US troops to stay with us. I get it. But I just don't like the dictions that are there. It's just when it happens, the deployment, so... and that's why the contract is actually accepted so that the army is here. She doesn't accept to not be here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u33	Thank you. In fact, as the last Mrs Karla Maříková so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I didn't want to perform, I didn't want to react, but I wanted to say that these people, it's not that we somehow leaked this information about the bases in that media space, but I noticed that maybe a whole bunch of lawyers were talking about it, specifically Dr. Dostál, and pointed out in the articles contract that, of course, those spaces and objects that we would provide to the American side that construction modifications could be made there, and they could store weapons there. So based on this, he makes it possible for the idea that those bases or something could come out there. And about the distrust of people and the e-mails. Don't be surprised, your Prime Minister Petr Fiala has lied so many times! Well, for God's sake, don't blame those people for not trusting you anymore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u35	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Now with priority rights, Minister Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u36	Thank you. I think that even Mr Zlínský deserves answers to the questions he asked me here, so I apologize if I'm stalling here, but I just promised to respond, and I want to respond. I will actually respond from the end, perhaps by explaining how the DCA differs from the SOFA agreement that is valid within NATO, because that is also the thing that bears this House from your part. So let me explain this to you one more time. The agreement between NATO Member States on the status of their armed forces, the so-called NATO SOFA, signed in 1951, has been a multilateral international treaty in force in the Czech Republic for almost 23 years since our accession and regulates the legal status of NATO armed forces in the territory of other Member States. NATO SOFA itself assumes that Member States can adjust certain matters more closely among themselves, thereby de facto supplementing it. The DCA also regulates those areas which NATO SOFA does not engage in, the legal status of suppliers of US armed forces, environmental protection. Although NATO SOFA is a good and valid basis for NATO defence cooperation for many years, it is advantageous for both parties to set bilateral defence cooperation beyond its scope and in more detail. Therefore, I would now add that NATO SOFA contains in Article 2 - Mr colleague, through Madam Vice-President - a general ban on activities incompatible with the spirit of the agreement, especially political activities in the beneficiary State. That's the answer to your question. About the stored material. This is where reciprocity works. So the Army of the Czech Republic can't leave its defense material in a foreign state just so loosely, it must always have constant control over the material. It's the legal obligation of those soldiers. This is where I'd like to finish your questions about the weapons of mass destruction. No, the DCA will not lead to the deployment of any weapons of mass destruction in the territory of the Czech Republic. The deployment of US nuclear weapons in Europe is in line with NATO's long-standing nuclear policy since the Cold War era, and it is certainly not expected to change anything about it. In addition to what I have just told you, my colleague, I would add that the Czech Republic is bound by the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. Furthermore, I would say that today, in order for you to have that information, Američan have nuclear weapons in dozens of pieces in Belgium, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Turkey. But this is part of an alliance concept called Nuclear Sharing. Weapons are deployed with consent - with consent! - beneficiary states. So we really do not need to worry about this here either you or colleagues from the SPD and especially citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u37	Thank you. A factual point will follow through Mr Balaš and then Mr Zlínský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to report initially, but I was no longer able to do so when I listened to some of your comments concerning the international treaty and international law. But I'll pass, because there were a number of misinformations and complete misunderstands about how international law works, including the interpretation of the treaty. But what I'm saying is, in the very preamble to the proposed treaty that we're discussing right now, it says that - I have to find it here - both sides understand that... "Acknowing that the presence of US armed forces in the territory of the Czech Republic under this Agreement is with the consent of the Czech Republic and with full respect to the Constitution of the Czech Republic and Czech law". So it's not true that anyone here can do anything, start, build, as they remember. On the contrary, there is a clear obligation to respect the rule of law of the country on which the armed forces will be placed. And basically, the provisions in the preamble are actually particularly important for interpretation. So in that respect, there's no point in worrying about anyone doing injustice here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last de facto for now, Mr. Zlínský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad what the Secretary of State said about the nuclear weapons, because that's one of the worst things that disturb our public. And as far as the control is concerned, I'm here asking a question about the control, if it really is that our control options that the U.S. military will bring here are, in fact, significantly limited. So I was gonna ask you if you'd be so kind as to specify that in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u41	Yes, thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Vomáčka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to take advantage of the fact that I have had time to look at News.cz, and I would like to please my previous speaker Zlínskýý here, because actually the chairman of the other opposition party said - I quote - yesterday: "No American bases or soldiers will be here, he has roasted Babiš Okamura." That's the headline from yesterday's paper. I wasn't there. [[Noise and a note from the left.]] I know what happened yesterday, maybe for somebody the day before yesterday, but here's a quote that even the Prime Minister said there wouldn't be any bases or American soldiers here. One thing. So if anyone's apologizing for comparing 1968 and the Russian troops' stay here with the treaty, I suggest you go see a movie, the movie is called The Man who stood in the way. And there is exactly described - or not described, there are a lot of pictures, so many of you might like it, and there is an exact description of what it looked like when the only František Kriegel refused to sign the invitation letter. And if you want to compare it to how democratically we're discussing today, then it's really starting to get bad with our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u43	Thank you. Madam Secretary Černochová, with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u44	Thank you. My colleague asked me for an answer, and I'll answer him. The DCA shall allow the armed forces of the United States to place and store their defence material in and have access to the territory of the Czech Republic. However, such storage will always be announced in advance to the Czech party and will be coordinated with it. That's the standard material we're not talking about weapons of mass destruction. The defence material will only be placed in the agreed facilities and premises, which are Czech military premises. [[16.10 hours]] According to the DCA, the United States must respect the sovereignty and legal obligations of the Czech Republic, which also concern the prohibition on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and other internationally prohibited weapons and means. I'm already repeating what I told you in the previous performance. If the opposite was the US approach, it would be a breach of the DCA and would therefore jeopardise the relationship between the Czech Republic and the United States, which is certainly not in the interest of the US party either. And the parties agreed to inform each other about their commitments and their implementation and to prevent unnecessary misunderstandings. So once again, I'm saying that without any control, nothing will happen here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u45	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have here an application for a factual remark. Yes, so let's make a point first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u46	Dear Members, as regards the Treaty of the Czech Republic - the US on foreign military bases and US soldiers in the Czech Republic, supported by the Fialův's five-calice, together with the ANO movement - and once again stressing that there is only one SPD against - so Andrej Babiš, to respond here to the debate, said yesterday in the House that this is supposed to be a trivial treaty and that nothing is happening and that there are no American soldiers in Romania and Bulgaria. bohužel, Andrej Babiš is not telling the truth. And each of you can now click on Google and even in mainstream media, which is, for example, News.cz and so on, you can easily find yourself there, and you will get a lot of articles that clearly say that American soldiers are in these countries. There are U.S. military bases - both in Bulgaria and Romania - and American soldiers commit crime there. It is also on Czech mainstream servers, for example News.cz several articles. So Andrej Babiš wasn't telling the truth here and on the basis of this contract, she's a little different from the country's content, but the contours, the basic parameters are the same everywhere, so they're American bases in Romania and Bulgaria. Andrej Babiš isn't telling the truth, it's not a trivial contract. This contract allows for the residence of American soldiers and American base in the Czech Republic. And the SPD tells clear not foreign soldiers, whether they are from the east or from the west, not foreign soldiers in the Czech Republic, not foreign bases in the Czech Republic. That's right!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u47	Thank you. A point of fact, which was made by Mr Hayato Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u48	Madam Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to look back on the fact that the SPD is throwing in one bag of foreign soldiers from any country without distinction, as if there was no difference between Kremlin Russia, which is currently committing this terrible aggression against independent Ukraine, between China and its undemocratic regime, which is immensely building an army, so that it raises fear in the wider region of the Indo-Pacific and Japan must increase its military budget and defence, as well as other states in this area, in order to somehow defy this threat, and, on the other hand, states that respect individual human rights, the dignity of everyone, regardless of religious beliefs, race, the language that people speak. And we now belong, we have the great gift, and the great happiness, of the family of free nations, so it is quite natural, at the size of our country, that we enter an alliance with people who think in a similar way, with societies democratic and free, and that is quite all right. It's about the safety of our citizens. The SPD keeps repeating it as such a mantra. This is the very security that can only be ensured in the present wide world, such a complex one, by an alliance with other democratic countries. That's the basis. And our alliance with the democracies headed by the United States of America is perfectly natural and perfectly fine in that sense. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u49	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador. That was the last point in fact and Mr Rudolf Salvetr is now in the general debate. Please. And Mr. Metnar will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u50	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I have been listening here for two days to a very detailed debate on the defence treaty between the Czech Republic and the United States, and next to the paragraphs, in addition to perhaps ideological phrases, I would like to add some personal experience and perspective. In 1984, at the end of the summer, I and my fellow students, historians, geographers left for a six-month study stay in Volgograd. I'm not gonna cover it up, logically we didn't want to, but it turned out to be one of the best six years since what you see with your own eyes, no one's gonna take away and you're gonna get a certain experience, which isn't bad at the age of 20. The first encounter with reality occurred at the border in Brest. Closed compartment, closed passageways in wagons and taking things out for six months. Arriving in Volgograd meant getting tickets for basic food for the month, which none of us expected, and I hope I won't talk about spying during student parties. What was a completely traumatic experience - we are in 1984 - was the return of the same old students, Russian students from Afghanistan - without hands, without legs, and totally gray by some. I think it has opened our eyes to a large extent, and as a student, you have a chance either to sit in the dorm, to be there in the bubble of 220 Czech students, or to try to move as much as possible around the city and also to talk to normal Rus. True, we didn't always manage to get to where we needed to go, because the city was military, it was locked up, so they dropped you off somewhere. But you can deal with that very easily. A common Russian is far more resilient than us, able to deal with some lack, discomfort, coldness. When we're babbling that hot water isn't running, he doesn't solve it at the beginning of November. But then there's one clear line, and that's when the debate comes to war and, in our case, 1968. They never understood and were unable to accept the idea that there was no brotherly help for us and that they had not come to rescue us. In 2008, I had the opportunity, i.e. after a quarter of a century, to return to Russia in the Yekaterinburg area - and nothing has changed at all. Absolutely equally friendly and they would split up, but totally insistent in the things I was talking about. At that time, our country was living on American radar in Brdech. That question came up on the first day I thought about him and how I looked at him. I was part of the Plzeň Region's representativeship with his supporters. At that moment there was a clear sentence and distance from us: Silnaja Rossija you nenímužna. I don't have to translate for the elders, the younger ones understood from the context as well. And that's exactly what it is. Russia has never been able to accept the fact that it lost its satellites, that it lost its interests, that it lost the countries that make their own decisions today, and all they can hear is that they are facing a strong and firm state, a strong partner. [[16.20 hours]] In the context of events taking place in Ukraine for a year and a half, and in the context of what happened last weekend, I do not understand at all, and I will say why, that some SPD MPs attended yesterday's demonstration at Malostranské náměstí. For me, a demonstration with at least communist rhetoric, as we heard in the time of the American radar. Plus, the day we commemorated Milada Horáková's anniversary. And I certainly don't understand it for that reason, and I accepted the information yesterday with hope and joy when President Okamura said that there were no pro-Russian interests. And perhaps one more thing, Madam President, through you. Mr. Foldyna, I don't see you now, but you were just here. We're about the same age, old enough to remember at least in the fog of 1968. And I consider the comparison in the photo of Vasil Biľak to Minister Černochová to be completely unacceptable. I think that every judgmental and somewhat intelligent person knows the difference between the invitation letter of the members of the politburo, the communist politburo, and the treaty that they conclude two self-contained and self-righteous states. I'm not gonna stand up for Madam Secretary here or say that in those two days, he must have a halo over him. She doesn't have it there. And she doesn't need to stand up for herself, because she has one - or a few good qualities. It has the necessary degree of force, hardness and insistentness. Plus one big bonus. The bonus for her is the Chief of Staff General Řehka. [[Laughter from the YES benches.]] I know you're pleased. But they both have one thing, at least one thing, clear. They don't paint the present world pink. They seek to fulfil our allied commitments so that we are a strong and strong part of the democratic community. And at least they have my full support for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u51	Thank you. Mr Kubíček will speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I like clarity and I like facts. Bases in Bulgaria and bases in Romania have been mentioned here. So what was the deal with the bases? Bulgaria has requested its own government and Parliament's approval 28. 4. 2026 on the establishment of two air bases for protection against migration and the Middle East, where Condoleezza Riceová and the Prime Minister opened the airport at the time and it was at the request of the Bulgarian party. [[2006?]] The second was Romania. In 2016, after anexi Crimea requested missile protection, it established another base in 2016, where two Patriot systems were deployed, which mainly protected against attacks from the Middle East and with little concern about the relocation and attack of Turkey on Russia. At that time both were approved by the Parliament, approved by the Government and invited by Romania and Bulgaria. So just for real reasons, I felt like saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u53	Thank you. So far, the last party to the general debate is Mr Metnar, then with priority rights, President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u54	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, thank you for the floor. Let me therefore comment on the Defence Cooperation Treaty between the Czech Republic and the United States of America. The Czech Republic is considered a reliable partner within the North Atlantic Alliance, not only in terms of Czech contributions to foreign operations and missions, but also in terms of the quality of the armed forces and the entire defence sector. The North Atlantic Alliance, however, is primarily a guarantee of our security and a contract with our alliance partners to strengthen it in the future. We have, of course, thoroughly discussed the Defence Cooperation Treaty and had expert opinions drawn up. We did not underestimate the situation, on the contrary, the discussion took place at several levels, not only at the ANO club itself, but also at the level of experts and lawyers. We cannot say that the treaty is perfect, but it is important. As part of the North Atlantic Alliance, 24 Member States have already entered into such a treaty, which is repeatedly mentioned here. As the biggest weakness of the entire process of creating and approving a defensive cooperation agreement, I perceive the communication of the defence department. Even before the approval of this Treaty by the Government, I took it for granted that the Government, in this case the Department of Defence, would explain to the citizens what the Treaty specifically means, what rights and obligations it gives us, and will explain in detail the various provisions and, in particular, their application. It didn't happen, and the government gave a free field of competence to the disinformation scene. But it is the government's duty to disprove speculation that spreads around the treaty. I certainly do not question the importance of this agreement, on the contrary, but I really cannot agree that you consider it a good communication of the publication of the contract on the website with general remarks. Finally, let me say that the YES movement would in no way support any document that would mean the presence of any foreign troops on our territory or the construction of foreign military bases. I would like to conclude completely by saying that what threatens the sovereignty of the Czech Republic is not a defence treaty, but it is the European Union's migration pact, whose approval has betrayed our citizens. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u55	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Okamura. Before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. He apologizes Brož Lubomír from 14 to 14.15 for health reasons, slavík Jiří takes back his apology from 12.15. You may speak. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to reiterate the SPD's position on this agreement. By the United States of America on defence cooperation approved by the government of Petr Fiala from ODS and subsequently signed by the Minister of Defence Černochová from ODS. The SPD will vote as the only party in the House against. Because we say no to foreign soldiers and foreign bases in the Czech Republic. So we will be the only opposition party against the government coalition in this matter. Let me remind you that I made a motion here yesterday to dismiss at first reading, which would therefore now be voted on. And in any case, I stress once again that we believe that the Fialův Government should put a referendum on this issue. Citizens should decide whether they wish to have foreign bases here in the Czech Republic or not. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I would remind you that the SPD movement already has a referendum law that allows for voting on this issue, not only on the withdrawal from the EU, but on other issues -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u57	I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, Mr President, to interrupt you. I'll ask for peace in the hall, on both sides of the hall. Yes, thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u58	I will remind you that the SPD has already passed a referendum law in the House, which allows for voting on these issues, so, of course, it is in the Chamber of Deputies. Yesterday, you rejected that point to put the referendum law in order to allow citizens to decide that. So again, again, the SPD is basically the only party in Parliament to promote democracy and referendum. [[16.30 hours]] Again, I would like to remind you that this is not a treaty between the Czech Republic and the US, but it is basically a one-sided treaty on the future military presence of the US in the Czech Republic, which allows US armed forces to use eleven premises in the Czech Republic, where essentially American soldiers can move freely. Again, I stress that, from our point of view, this agreement is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, and I say again, from this point of view, it does not give similar rights to Czech soldiers or to our members, not only in the United States, and the whole agreement is essentially going unilaterally to one side. Once again, I will stress that this assures Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová that the presence of the US armed forces will be subject to Parliament's approval under this agreement, so, of course, it is difficult to say in any way acceptable justification. We are therefore proposing this referendum because, of course, in the House, the Purple Government has a majority, so you will approve it yourself, again about us without us, and that is literally true, because I will stress again that the Fialův Government has won only 43 percent of the citizens' votes in the elections, because it has failed a million votes in the elections. This means that there is not even a majority mandate from citizens, so this argument cannot be applied from my point of view, which is why we propose that a referendum should take place on this issue. So from our point of view, really... We have to refuse, which is why I also proposed a motion to reject. Here I would remind you once again that the government is essentially proposing a change in the constitution, where, essentially, without Parliament's consent, Czech soldiers or Czech citizens could be broadcast abroad, and the government could invite foreign troops here within 60 days for reasons other than those mentioned today, in particular, there is the reason for the threat to security, the protection of security, under which virtually everything is hidden by the Fialův Government. So, of course, the amendment to the Constitution does not support the SPD, and we think it should always be going through this vote in Parliament. In the event that they would agree here, as they have been, even though it would be... if it were protection, security of the Czech Republic and so on, I think we should definitely discuss it in Parliament within 60 days. So that's the SPD's position. Again, we say no to foreign soldiers and foreign bases in the Czech Republic. And I ask you to vote on our motion to dismiss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have a good afternoon. We are continuing the general debate, taking over the management of the meeting. And with priority rights, the rapporteur is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. At the end of today's debate, I would like to propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions to 20 days so that we can return to this press during the next reading during the July meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u61	Thank you. I've registered your proposal, I'll put it to a vote. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate? I do not see any application at this point, and for this reason I am ending the general debate. I want to ask... Madam Secretary, please, the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you for the debate. We've been acting for hours, I've tried to answer all the questions that have fallen here, maybe I'm at least the colleagues who wanted a reaction, at least I've explained some of the things that have been raised here as a concern. As a concern that citizens of the Czech Republic are asking questions about how it will actually be. I take one thing from this debate. The debate isn't so much about the treaty and the techniques accompanying the treaty, but the debate here is very ideological. Because there are colleagues among us who have a different relationship with the United States of America and our defence, and I don't blame them, we are a democratic House, everyone here has representation. And I think we can all agree that there have also been a number of things that are good that the SPD colleagues have raised here, because perhaps a part of the public has calmed down our answers, and perhaps those questions in the public space are less. Thank you again to all of you who are ready to support this agreement. Thank you once again for the debate and, of course, I am ready to continue to debate at committee level, and therefore, if the agreement is in force, beyond the foreign committee, I think it is certainly legitimate that the Defence Committee should also discuss this treaty. So once again - thank you all and we will look forward to reading again. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u63	Thank you. The President of Okamura is still applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, here I must respond to the Minister, because I do not know what she meant by "another relationship with the United States." I was on Donald Trump's public list of supporters, which I officially supported, which is why I was officially visited by a member of Donald Trump's electoral staff, a year and a half before Donald Trump's successful election. They went around Marine Le Pen, they circled me, they went around other politicians who were publicly supporting me at the time... [[Laughs in the hall.]] Well, I'm not laughing at Donald Trump like an American, successful American president. It doesn't seem like it's funny. I'm glad I was on that official list, and I'm glad I supported Donald Trump before his successful election, years ago. So I don't know what relationship you're talking about with the United States. I have a positive relationship, but that's completely different. But if you're defending some collective guilt, if you're throwing them all together, it's possible, but I think this principle is wrong. And I think that ordinary citizens in all the countries of the world are not to blame for what those politicians are doing and whether they're turning someone against one or the other. So as far as I'm concerned, I really don't know who you were talking about, and there was some misinformation on my account yesterday, but I'm not ashamed that I was and I was (?) On the official list of public supporters of Donald Trump and that I was visited by the representatives of the electoral staff, even here in the House, as in the House, we had lunch here together, I showed him the premises of the House all those years ago. So I don't know who you were talking about. I don't know who you're talking about. Or is Donald Trump not Američan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u65	I want to ask the rapporteur if you want another final word, Mr Member? It's not like that. Thank you. We will therefore now vote on individual proposals. I'm registering your application for check-out, I'm going to unsubscribe you all, I'm going to ask you for a re-registration. First, we will vote on the motion to dismiss, which fell 27. 6. Order (?) It's settled. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to the motion to reject this House press, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 103, 152 Members and Members are registered, for 16, against 119. This proposal was rejected. Let's keep going, then. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee and the Defence Committee. I want to ask, do you have any other proposal to discuss? I can't see. Mr. Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u66	As part of the more sensible part of the debate, I have noted that there are, of course, legal issues. I haven't consulted anyone, but if someone came from the ministry and answered some questions at ease on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I think that would be good. So I'm suggesting a constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-003-098.u67	Thank you. I'm registering your request or your proposal. Is there any other proposal? I can't see. I just want to ask about the next procedure - can I put the vote on all three committees en bloc, or do you want to vote on individual committees gradually? Gradually, okay. So, first of all, I would like to put to the vote that we will give this press for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees with the Foreign Committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 104, 152 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 147, against no one. This proposal has been approved. I am also opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the defence committee discussing this? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 105, 152 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 147, against no one. This proposal has also been agreed with. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this press being discussed in the Constitutional and Legal Committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 106, 153 Members of Parliament are registered, for proposal 67, against 25. We have not agreed to this proposal. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Defence Committee. At the same time, another proposal was made, and that is a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions to 20 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline to 20 days? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 107, 153 Members of Parliament, for 121, against 15. I note that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions to 20 days. We have therefore discussed all the proposals that have been made, and I am ending the discussion of this point. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I interrupt the meeting until 9 o'clock tomorrow morning. Thank you.
