ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u1	95. Government bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended /house print 249/ - third reading Please take the position of Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Karel Haas. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 249/4, which was delivered on 16 November 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 249/5. Do I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? It's not like that. Do you, Mr President, want to speak before the debate is opened? [[No.]] Okay. So I am opening up a debate in which I am registering two priority rights. Madam Vice-President Klára Dostálová and then President Jakub Michálek have the first priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the Public Procurement Act on the table again. I was just about to start with such a really small excursion, because the law was basically prepared on the basis of some of the European Commission's complaints, which have been modified. Originally, of course, the law should have been passed long ago and I repeat here again and I confirm Mr Michálek's words from this morning or this morning, when we started today's negotiations, that there really is a threat of fines from the European Commission, because we must always ensure the timely, correct transposition of the European directive into our legislative environment. However, two amendments were read in the second reading, which are therefore really very debatable, and that is where it all went down. The first amendment was from the pen of Minister Bartoš. If you remember, there we discussed the so-called in-house award, which means that the Czech Republic should really be considered as a separate contracting entity. That is what we are - because it is not entirely in line with the opinions of the European Commission - have also asked for the opinion of the Parliamentary Institute, which confirmed our concerns that it might not be properly transposed, because, as it is written, and according to the state's property, that if the contracting authority is the Czech Republic, then it is the organisational components of the state. [[11.20 hours]] But the minister responded, and I'm glad he responded. He met with the European Commission, the European Commission sent an opinion on these problems that we raised here, and from that point of view, although, of course, the European Commission immediately states in the introduction that this is an informal position, that only the European Court of Justice can give it formality, but has admitted the possibility of saying that the Czech Republic can act as a separate contracting entity. I am, therefore, to this, because it is black and white from the Commission - who would be interested in getting to know it, directly with the opinion of the European Commission, so, of course, I am offering it to him. It's quite well described here. Although I have turned to the Parliamentary Institute, he said that it does not change anything in his original opinion, but I think that by at least having something to lean on, we would not have to make this amendment any further fundamentally contradictory. We for the club of the YES movement - because, of course, it is the informal position of the European Commission, the Parliamentary Institute has not changed its position - we are likely to have a neutral position on this. But it must be said fairly here that the Minister has faced this and has somehow tried to defend his amendment. However, the second amendment, which is also really, from our point of view, a bit on the edge with the transposition of the European directive and with the opinion of the European directive, because I already asked whether it was possible for a Member State to put further grounds for exclusion into its law on public procurement itself, and at that time the European Commission wrote that this is not the way to proceed, because there is a need to maintain equality in the market and so on. What's going on here? It must be said here that Mr Michálek's amendment actually translated the paragraph of the Act on Conflict of Interest directly into the Act on Public Procurement, and that is precisely the conflict of administrative standards that we have already dealt with during our operation, that the Act on Public Procurement is actually built on the transposition of a European directive that does not automatically exclude. Every candidate for a public contract must have the right to defend himself, simply explain his actions, whether they are cartels or, of course, potential conflicts of interest, whereas the conflict of interest law in Section 4 states completely hard that anyone who is in conflict of interest should simply be excluded from the public contract, and there has been a conflict of two legal standards. That is actually what we asked the European Commission, and she wrote that the law on public procurement cannot really be based on automatic exclusion, and for that reason we tried to modify the amendment in some way, because unfortunately the amendment is based on the fact that there is hard exclusion, that is, without the possibility of defending ourselves, so-called justification. It is, of course, up to the contracting authority to take the justification then, but the possibility simply has to be there. And I would like to ask, because I have a lot of materials here, of course - I would also like to thank President Michálek, who gave me the opinion of the Ministry of Justice - but also in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, it is written, and I am literally quoting: "This is further complemented by the fact that, when assessing proportionality, Member States are to take into account, inter alia, whether this is a general incompatibility with the effect of automatic exclusion of suppliers from all contracts on a given section and whether the measure prevents suppliers from proving that their participation in competition poses a risk to their freedom or transparency." Unfortunately, that is not the amendment. I am very glad that we have found some common ground that we are trying to find a way out of this, and therefore I would like to suggest to the honourable House that we return this law to the second reading, so that we can make some adjustments, because I think that if we agree on these adjustments, then it will really go very quickly, because here I would also like the Ministry not to be subjected to any sanctions on the part of the European Commission, so I think it would be for the benefit of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u3	Thank you, too. Another with priority rights is Mr. Chairman Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u4	Thanks for the word. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin with a summary of what I will propose, then I would elaborate in more detail. Firstly, given that we have reached a political agreement on further action on this matter, I would suggest that we repeat the second reading of this draft law under Section 95, par. 2, and then I will propose, given that this is discussed and agreed by all the political clubs in the Chamber of Deputies, that, on the basis of resolution 1231 of the 7th parliamentary term, in this situation where we are at risk of sanctions for non-application and when all the clubs in the Chamber of Deputies agree to this, we repeat the second reading immediately after the end of this item, or to place it as a new item in the agenda of the meeting in this extraordinary situation. However, I would briefly comment on what was said here by Mrs Dostálová. We discussed the compliance of the amendments with European law. We have asked the Ministry of Justice to draw up an opinion on the compatibility of a public procurement ban on companies owned by a member of the government with constitutional and European law. It is necessary to state that the Constitutional Court has dealt with this question and that The Constitutional Court assessed this by stating that in the finding the file mark of the Constitutional Court 4/17, paragraph 205, the Constitutional Court stated that Section 4b of the Law on Conflict of Interest constitutes, in relation to the law on the award of public procurement lex specialis posterior, which takes precedence over lex generalis priori, and stressed that the intention of the legislature was not to lay down rules for conflict of interest with the fact that they would be able to escape the other laws which they did not comply with, so that their provisions could not be applied where they would be contrary to the purpose of the regulation in the special subject of regulation, i.e. conflict of interest, specific rules. In this context, the sometimes emerging argument that the application of the conflicting rule of the speciality does not lead to a clear conclusion is therefore not sufficient. According to current legislation, it is established in the light of the decision-making activities of the Constitutional Court that Section 4b of the Act on Conflict of Interest is to be applied as a separate and independent reason for excluding the tenderer from the procurement procedure if the conditions set out in its hypothesis are fulfilled. This means, when I sum up for the non-lawyers: the Constitutional Court has already judged this material once, concluded that it is in accordance with the Constitution, and, on the contrary, it has not concluded that it is to submit it to the Court of Justice of the European Union for contradiction, that it is to be presented to the Court of Justice of the European Union. What the Ministry of Regional Development, which has prepared this proposal, wants to make the interpretation of these two legislation clearer - on the one hand, the law on conflict of interest, on the other hand, the Public Procurement Act without making a major shift. So, the legislation is very clear today. Just to briefly justify the issue of compliance with European Union law. There is a precedent for the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Mikhailiki AE, which is a Greek company, and in the present case it was different factual circumstances. It was far wider there, when the Court of Justice actually concluded that contrary to the award directive, and if a Member State lays down its rules in such a way as to exclude all persons who have a function in media companies from contracts. In the regulation that we propose, the scope of personal competence is substantially narrower, it applies only to members of the government, and in the form in which we propose it, it is already more or less valid in Austria. It must be said that the regulation is slightly different in that it always applies only to the relevant level of the public authorities concerned, not to all public contracts, but more or less to a similar principle, where there are no grounds to exclude that there is a conflict of interest. However, since we were under pressure from the opposition here too, in order to discuss this bill at all, we agreed. It is also a helpful step on our part in order to read the amendment that regulates this issue at second reading. Let me just say one more thing: the parameters set by the Court of Justice of the European Union concern competence, so the application should be, or the reasons for exclusion should relate to professional competence. That's where the fact that the list is supposed to be taxative is really going to apply. [[11.30 hours]] Just to sum up, given what has been said, the opposition agreement was such that we would propose, and I am doing so now, to repeat the second reading of the bill, and immediately thereafter I would like to propose that the point be included, therefore, that the second reading be directly done, with the fact that I have therefore spoken to all the club presidents or vice-chairmen of the club, that the proposals that have already been made at second reading be re-readed, and that, in addition, the opposition's possibility to read the amendments it considers important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Since all the other speakers have signed up for the debate, for the record, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak? Looks like no one else is reporting, I'm done with the debate. For the record, do I still ask whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to speak? It's not like that. I have noted several proposals that I will put to the vote. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. The first proposal is a proposal to repeat the second reading. In the event that this proposal is approved, and given that, under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, it has been recognised that an emergency situation has arisen, this item will be included today as the first, i.e. the second reading of this proposal. First, we will vote on inclusion and then on solid inclusion. And since there's been a new situation, I'm just telling you in advance that after that, I'd need some 10 minutes to get this point ready. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] In that case, a five-minute break so that the documents for the second reading can be prepared. I've outlined the procedure I'm going to follow, no one's upsetting him, step by step. First of all, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of repeating the second reading as this proposal was made in the debate? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 114, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 132, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved, and we have returned the press to second reading. I will now vote on the emergency situation. We will vote on the second reading of this bill to be included on the agenda of this meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Questions in plenary.]] There was a motion to return to second reading and this second reading is given on the agenda of this meeting. There's been an emergency. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 115, registered 146 Members and Members, for 137, against no one. The House has decided that an emergency situation has arisen and this bill returned to the second reading is included in the agenda for this meeting. I will now put to the vote that this bill will be discussed today as the first item. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of a firm inclusion of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 116, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 140, against no one. The proposal was adopted and this item will be discussed today as the first on the agenda - the second reading of this law. In order to prepare the materials, I would like to ask another question in the context of the next meeting interruption plan: if the meeting is interrupted by approximately 11.40, will second reading be sufficient to take place by approximately 11.50, by 11.53, when will this meeting be interrupted? Is he gonna be able to close the second reading? Because then there's another meeting scheduled. [[Ambassador Benda wonders why we should take a break.]] I say we need to get the documents ready for second reading. That's why. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Since the documents for the second reading are ready, I accept your remark, Mr President, and we can proceed with the second reading right away. If you'd like to step forward with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u6	I do. Mr Vice-President, first of all, I propose that we include in this meeting a third reading of this bill, because the third reading took place and was completed by returning to the second reading, and at the same time, that this meeting should continue on Friday 24. 6. with fixed points... [[A commotion in the hall.]] Sorry, 24. 3. I am very sorry, at 9 o'clock with fixed points - three building laws, or a uniform environmental position, accompanying a uniform environmental opinion - 238, 239 - construction law - 240 and then 249 - public procurement. In this way, a complete agreement would be fulfilled, which was made at the political club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-053-06-002-095.u7	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I did not vote on this proposal because it has not yet spoken. Given that this is a proposal relating to the emergency situation that the Presidents of all the club members agreed on, the President Benda's proposal has been heard, do I want to ask whether it is necessary to repeat it or can I put it to a vote? I can put him to a vote. I've logged the application for check-out, so I'll check you out, apply for log-in. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal, as President Benda has said, on the adjustment of the programme? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 117; 139 Members and Members are registered, for 134, against none. This proposal has been approved and the programme has been adapted. So we will now continue as we have modified the agenda for today's meeting. Opening point
