ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u1	1. Information of the Minister of Interior . Rakušan on approved compulsory solidarity I ask that the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan take the floor. I'm just reading this for the record. However, there was an agreement. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u2	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice-President. We have made a gentleman's agreement, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will begin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u3	Yes, I will just repeat, for the record, that, in the 7th term, the order was established when either the report was requested or the information of the Prime Minister or one of the ministers, in the event that it is information, the one who gives the information and automatically who is the appellant becomes the rapporteur. We have now noted that there has been an agreement that the draftsman, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who, if she agrees, will also be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u4	Yes, I agree. děkovat you, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u5	If there are no objections, this matter shall not be put to the vote, as it automatically becomes rapporteur under the agreement of the 7th parliamentary term. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, the YES movement has called an extraordinary meeting called the Information of the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan on the approval of the so-called compulsory solidarity. I must begin by saying that there has been an agreement between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs with this title, because if we had not given such a title, this agreement would not have happened and the agenda of today's meeting would most likely not have been approved. If we were to call this point, it would sound quite different, because the migration reform and what the Minister of the Interior has approved is absolutely contrary to the programming statement, not only to the SPOLU programme and other parties, but above all to the government's programming statement. I must say that yesterday, the President of the Czech Republic appeared here, who clearly said it was very important to have an open dialogue in order to combat conflicts. Now let's talk about what happened. We, as opposition, learn from the media that Vít Rakušan went to the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg, where he approved for the Czech Republic that he agreed with the so-called mandatory solidarity on the reception of illegal migrants, and if we do not accept such migrants, we will pay CZK 500 000 for one migrant. So the Minister went to a meeting of the Council of Ministers - can we talk about why it wasn't at the European Council - and didn't know what was going to be discussed there? It has been said here and since our Chairman of the ANO movement that there has always been a framework position, it has been discussed on the foreign committee. Can the Home Secretary answer if he's been discussing this on the committee? I have no such information from my colleagues who are members of the Foreign Committee. Did the Minister of the Interior have the mandate of the Government of the Czech Republic? Mr Emissary Zdechovský speaks that he did not. So I'd like an answer from the Home Secretary. [[15.40 hours]] When I look at the government meeting that took place on June 7, I can't find anything there. And when I look at the record, in the last point 8, I see that there is information about the position of the Czech Republic at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council. But you know what's interesting? That there's a vote on every item. This means that out of 17 members present voted in favour of 17. There is no vote on this point. Could you, Minister of the Interior, show us how individual members of the government voted in this case? How many members of the government were in favour? Against? And why isn't it listed in this record? It's classified? I assume these are things that should not only be public for us, but for all citizens of the Czech Republic. Why didn't you inform us about the meeting that this was going to be discussed? Interestingly, when this matter was voted on by the Council of Ministers, Hungary, Poland, abstained from Slovakia, Malta, Lithuania and Bulgaria. And I would first of all like to know -- and if you could answer that here, I would believe that yes -- why was Poland against it? I'd like to say from this point on, I'm acting as the shadow secretary of the interior at the moment. And I have to say, I practically didn't go through this process. Our Chairman of the ANO movement, in the position of Prime Minister, struggled with these things. And compulsory solidarity was already on the table in 2020 and 2021. And Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and his government categorically rejected it. And practically by agreeing to it, you brought us into the fact that we would be free to decide who would live with us. [[Aren't we?]] And we have to talk about the fact that some people don't even want to live with us. And I am convinced that you are threatening the security of the Czech Republic with what you have done. And I'm surprised because you're constantly talking about an exception. The document has 150 pages, maybe more of a page. There is no exception in this document. No one knows about the exemption. You're just talking about her. Again, if you argue that the Czech Republic has voluntarily accepted Ukrainian war refugees, and there were 516 000, Poland has accepted 1.6 million. And Poland was against compulsory solidarity. Well, if you'd like to answer that. I don't need to remind you that on June 29, 2018, quotas were clearly rejected under our government. We call on you to tell us about Ukrainian refugees - you say that the financial amount was 1.3 million (?) Crowns. I think that this is a very inadequate amount and that, within the Presidency and everything, you could have won more funding. What's the worst part? That when negotiations were held in Luxembourg on 8 June, it was exactly five years since you buried precisely the rejection of quotas, when it was stopped, while on that day the Syrian migrant in France seriously stabbed four three-year-olds. Again, I say that by this step you have limited the sovereignty of the Czech Republic and behind our backs and, without any discussion, you have had this document approved, this regulation, when you agreed to this mandatory solidarity. Again, I point out - mandatory solidarity. I would still like to transfer it to 2015 at the moment, which is probably all of us remembering when Brussels planned to divide 120 000 migrants in 2015. At that time, the Czech Republic had a quota of 2 978 migrants. Luckily, it crashed. But right now, I'd transfer it to your approved Thursday deal. If we had not accepted these 2,978 migrants, we would have had to pay CZK 1.5 billion as the Czech Republic. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have two laws in the context of illegal migration - foreign law and asylum law. And what we are talking about right now is the asylum law, which I would also like to remind you, Minister of the Interior, because we have recently approved it here and called on the Security Committee to tighten the punishments for smuggling gangs. And how did that turn out? You brought the law here, but you didn't enforce tightening the punishments as Home Secretary, and they're not in the contents of the new law. This means that the punishments for smuggling gangs are much higher in other EU countries than in the Czech Republic. At this point, I think that a number of experts, a number of people who move within security experts, are clearly saying that this step is very bad and that the right of every state is to decide who they are going to put into the country with regard to safety. And I think that by the step you've taken practically without telling anybody about it, and I don't know what the reason was, so if you have such communication, and that this is the way to talk to the opposition and communicate with other people and do things like that, it doesn't seem right to me in any way in relation to the fact that you've buried what you've been able to do here, whether it's an ambush of the quotas, and whether it's mandatory solidarity was on the table in 2020 and 2021, and the government of Andrej Babiš has categorically rejected it. And the current Interior Minister Vít Rakušan approved it on the Council of Ministers without telling anyone. I will believe, Minister, that you will answer all my questions. In a detailed debate, I am prepared to propose a resolution which we will want the Chamber of Deputies to vote on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Minister Vít Rakušan will now speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Babiš here earlier said he didn't understand. He himself said that I accused him of it, and unfortunately, after the act, I have to say that it is. And I'm sorry. And I'll start with a riddle. The solution is a combination of financial support for those countries that are in the first place, including Italy - Anniversary number one. Interview number two: We have always participated financially and will continue to participate - I leave out the author, according to which the Czech Republic would continue to prefer financial support. Yes, Andrej Babiš, first 28. 8. 2018 after negotiations with the Italian Prime Minister, second statement 24. 9. after negotiations with the President of the European Commission. I am very glad that I fulfilled the assignment that Andrej Babiš made in 2018 and 2020 at the Luxembourg meeting, and we did exactly what was defined in the policy and government statement of the former government. We have rejected mandatory relocation quotas. I stress once again: We have rejected mandatory relocation quotas that are not here. And you don't have to trust me. So I'm going to quote what this proposal that everyone here is talking about and talking about is actually approved. Within the framework of so-called solidarity, the countries of the European Union can participate in three ways. Three ways. One of them is relocation, but optional, nobody gives anybody any quotas to accept the compulsory number of migrants - first of all. Secondly, it is a financial contribution granted by the Member States, that is the second possibility of solidarity. Now listen to the third - alternative solidarity measures aimed at capacity building, services, support for personnel, equipment and technical equipment in accordance with Art.44. So what the Czech Republic has done in the long run. I would like to tell you that every year during the previous government, and we were happy to take over, during the reign of Andrej Babiš, we put 210 million crowns a year into the MEDEVAC project and to help on the spot. This is an alternative aid that helps secure capacity. Everyone here is talking about some exception I've presented, and they say there's no exception. First of all, I refer to Article 7b of the Regulation, the migration management, the so-called AMMMR, from which I was based when negotiating the exemption. And please, if anyone here claims, if the Member here claims that he knows how negotiations work at European level, he also knows that there is a proposal for a text that is being voted on, and then, as part of its approval, exceptions are being given and implemented which individual states negotiate. And they will then appear in the Council's summary, that is to say in the text, including the approved exceptions, which will be issued this afternoon after the COREPER meeting. The exception, of course, is contained there. And again, what does the exception say? What you're criticizing here. There are no mandatory relocation quotas - they are not. And once again - they are not, we do not have to accept any number of migrants. And I don't know the logical link to people crawling on the Slovak-Czech border. Of course we shut it down so those people couldn't get in. And regardless of this migration pact, it doesn't have anything to do with it, we'd shut it down again if that number went up. There's no connection, as they say, and sometimes we hear. That's illegal migration, and, of course, we're going to send these people away as part of the re-mission. But I don't know what this has to do with the migration pact. When a wave of migration rises and migrants come from Slovakia, we will, of course, close those borders again. That's a logical step. And what does that have to do with the migration pact, could I ask? I don't understand at all. And maybe even the person who said that doesn't understand. Well, why didn't Poland approve? I don't know. I really don't know. The Polish Deputy Minister - and there was no minister - spoke in the morning with the fact that we are a country affected by Ukrainian migration, we have, yes, a high number, higher than the Czech Republic, but in per capita per capita we are the most affected country with our number of migrants, and Poland has spoken: we do not want to pay any solidarity contribution at a time when we have such a number of migrants. It was on the cameras, you can see it, the records exist. And we supported this Polish argument. We said that the Czech Republic will not pay any solidarity contribution when we are hit by Ukrainian migration, as well as the Pobaltí, for example, so we will not pay it. We agree with the Polák. Except our approach was different. As the Czech Republic, we negotiated with France, Germany, Spain, Italy, with all the states all day long, and we said: if the exception for countries affected by Ukrainian migration is not agreed, we do not agree with the approval of the migration pact as a whole. And, of course, the Swedish Presidency and the other countries that wanted to compromise wanted to approve the migration pact. So the exception that the Czech Republic has negotiated has been accepted, and this exception will benefit Poland, which has not voted for it. And it will logically benefit from all the Baltics, which voted in favour - by the way - of the majority. One country from the Baltics abstained from voting. And it is unfair to argue with Slovensko. Slovakia has said that it will now abstain from voting on all the councils in its fundamental opinions because they have an official government and do not have a political mandate for these decisions. That was a clear word for the recording of the Slovak Minister's cameras, which you can retrace again. So Poland voted against, even though we negotiated during the day a position for which Poland voted against. Why did Poland do so? I don't know, maybe because of the election. Maybe she smells blood like you do. You may feel the blood of the migration theme before every election, just like you did last time, right?, how those migrants occupied the cottages and the cottages. Well, how many are there? That's what you said, this big joke. So you're starting to scare people again? Is the migration going well again? Based on the fact that no one has agreed to any mandatory quotas for the Czech Republic that we can choose from three types of solidarity, and there is solidarity with technical security, infrastructure building, and so on, which your government has supported in the long term. The mandate that has been approved under your government is as follows: refusal of mandatory relocations. We as the Czech Republic have completely fulfilled the refusal of mandatory relocations. They're not there. And even with the greatest creativity and reading of this text, you won't find them there. This afternoon I will be able to introduce you to the text, if COREPER discusses, he will issue where our exception referring to the above article AMMR is incorporated. It's just the process, the way he walks. And if you say so, we're going to be haunted by this in the European elections -- well, that's what the Renew faction is really looking forward to, they're all for. Their position is for the migration pact. Well, that's your business, and I'm not going to comment on what European faction you're in, and whether you really belong there, or whether you and Viktor Orbán are part of some completely different faction. But that's just your internal decision, and it's entirely and entirely up to you. If you're talking about how long the exception will work. No, pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: 7b until the Czech Republic is burdened with the migration crisis from Ukraine, it will work until then. That means if we have the number of Ukrajinec we have here, we're not paying any solidarity contributions. Bottom line is two lines. What have we achieved? No mandatory quotas, no solidarity contribution during the Ukrainian crisis. I don't know if this is such a bad result of negotiations, but you always have to find something to criticize us for, of course. And the fact that we support solidarity, and you use it here in the debate, across the spectrum, the words of business, salesmen, extortion, greasy money, footman? What words! You know what you're doing? All you're doing is tearing this company apart based on something where there's no reason to break it up, because there's no potential danger to the Czech Republic here, on the other hand, we've protected it from the fact that there's someone coming to think that the relocations, for example, are good. But they're not there. They, in that European document of compulsory relocation to those countries, as proposed in 2015, and as we applauded the government as well as the opposition to reject them, they are not there. This is the fulfilment of the mandate and the fulfilment of the mandate. [[16.00 hours]] It's hard to discuss with someone who comes out of some impressions, feelings, and then there's a hit on the hard facts that are in that text. And once again, pick a type of solidarity. Relocation is denied. They're not mandatory. Financial contribution. Thirdly, alternative solidarity measures. If you claim that you have read the text, read also clause c), not only a), b), and also a) there are no mandatory relocations, there are only relocations. This is precisely what is mandatory, and that is the difference between 2015 and now, there is missing. I've tried to put maximum didactic art into it to explain the differences that are here. Now let's say once again what this agreement is based on. No mandatory relocation of refugees, solidarity based on the free decisions of the Member States, how they want to show solidarity. And that solidarity is a dirty word? Is this really only a problem for those border states that protect the external border of Schengen? With Mr Orbán, you have shown solidarity over the long term that poor Maďar protect the Serbian-Hungarian border. They're poor, that's why our cops are helping them. We're helping them. And the fact that those southern states are just the strain and that it's normal to look solidly at the fact that if we want to keep Schengen and the area without borders, then solidarity must exist here. We, as the Czech Republic, have only argued for the long term that solidarity does not mean mandatory relocation quotas. That solidarity means other methods, and that in this pact, long-term, compromise, it is. And you're also pretending that the pact should be in effect tomorrow. The pact doesn't work, and there aren't many details. Again, if you say you understand European negotiations, and you really understand them and you know the processes, and not only are you talking about it, you know that this material as a Council position is still going to be approved by the European Parliament at this point, and there will be particular partial detailed issues. This is the general position of the Council with which the Council of Ministers comes after years to negotiate with the European Parliament. Another precaution. Why don't you mention him? Did you read it or not, the 150 pages? Why don't you mention that there is a measure that helps better protect the external border? That there are better return mechanisms than there were? That there is a better return of people and tightening border management and border procedures on the EU's external border, registration of people? Why didn't you mention that the deal was even limited? You might like that. She limits the use of material benefits to asylum seekers who move to another Member State. On the contrary, restrictions on benefits in those other countries, other than the countries of origin as such. In order to prevent their desire to aim in the same direction as everyone else, that is, Germany, possibly Austria. And speaking of Austria, which you have also quoted here, the hardleiner of the current migration policy for, because it makes sense. Because it makes sense that it's approved. So you choose two countries - Maďar are against everything, Polák had some reason to disprove during the day, and they didn't change their minds anyway. So don't ask me why, I don't know. I'm saying, the election, I guess. What the agreement means for the Czech Republic. It is a long-term effort to ensure a consistent position of the Czech Republic in the area of migration policy rejecting mandatory relocation quotas. One of the few things where we agree with YES and SPD on foreign policy issues. For the next one. Assistance to the Czech Republic as one of the countries most affected by migration within the EU. Well, we don't know what's gonna happen, and don't ask me what's gonna happen for temporary protection. It is still activated by the end of March next year and will certainly be negotiated at European level if we prolong temporary protection, or if these people go into some classic asylum mechanism. I will not respond to Mr Okamura, if anyone has promised to return, they will not return. I will tell you frankly and frankly, and there is no need to hide it, of the 343,000 people on our territory, I'm sure not all will return to Ukraine. Definitely not. Every time the conflict lasts for more than a year and at least, that's the experience of all migration crises, at least a third of those people are interested in staying in the territory. But that'll be our decision. Because these people are going to fall into classic asylum procedures, and if they go into them and they're going to be asylum seekers, then, of course, they are going to count on those who are applying for asylum, and on the contrary, the Czech Republic may benefit from the solidarity contribution, because the number of people in our territory will be the same. You represent this migrant, and asylum seekers, as a creeping Syřan on the Zlín hill near our border with Slovakia. This is not the only type of migration and it is not another type of asylum seekers in the Czech Republic. By the way, as you haunt these migrants, do you know how many of them have applied for asylum in the Czech Republic? About seven, if I'm not mistaken. The others wanted to go to Germany and wanted to go to Austria. And that doesn't change a thing. Next thing you know, I'm gonna keep going. On the basis of this agreement, we have an exception, I mentioned, for the Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltics, and in the future we can be the beneficiaries of these compensations as such. And now you're saying there's something weird about solidarity. I am not partial to that word, and I think that solidarity is based on the European Union for a long time. Using funding for motorway construction, school repairs, infrastructure repairs, yes, that was European financial solidarity long-term with the Czech Republic. Many private wealthy companies have long been able to benefit from this European solidarity. This is European solidarity, as defined. And that European solidarity, in some optional form, also works in the area of migration, is something completely obvious. And a few more comments on my colleague Okamur, but really just a few. First of all... [[Mr Okamura is speaking with President Kovářová.]] I'll wait, if President Okamura listens to me, he'll listen to Mrs Kovářová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u9	Mr President, Minister, I will also ask you, if necessary, through me. [[Minister Austrian: I wanted to comment on something. Thank you.]] I'll secure the room. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u10	Thank you so much. Mr. Okamura is paying attention, so a few notes. I don't really write a report on extremism at the Home Office. I really don't. And I won't interfere. If anyone's an extremist, then let them be there. And he may be a member of the parliamentary party. If he's not an extremist, don't let him in the report. That's just some objective criterion that comes out of the report. And the crime you mentioned. You stood here before the covide in 2019 and yelled at the then government, through Mr President, if crime is wrong, because the figures you mentioned last year did not reach the forehead level of 2019. And the fact that crime has fallen in covid, and the fact that crime has risen in all neighbouring countries, except Slovakia, in addition to lying, more than in the Czech Republic, Germany, Poland, Austria, and the increase in our country by 19 percent last year, is the only thing we agree on, was the second lowest in these four countries next to Slovakia and we did not get to the ancestry level. We didn't even make it to the level of 2019. And the slowdown in crime growth for the first quarter of this year is also noticeable compared to 2022, which means last year. Let's bring in the facts. 2019 was a higher crime rate than 2022. Just a note from the statistics you're playing some of your games with to act and haunt. And I would love it if we would stop scaring people. If we start telling them the facts and not to make a situation here that, in such a difficult social situation, full of ditches, we're gonna be haunted because it's gonna bring us political profits because the presidential elections were winning because last parliamentary elections were winning on it. Well, that's right. We heard Andrej Babiš here, as if it were a few years ago, maybe he was a little more energetic then. But the topics remain the same. Solidarity itself is not wrong. If you're afraid of her, our government is definitely not afraid of solidarity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u11	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a good afternoon, and we have taken turns in the management of the meeting. For the sake of order, I say that we are still here before the general debate is opened, and for this reason I note that I had to delete your factual remarks because we are not in the general debate. Before its opening, President Andrej Babiš is reporting. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Mr. Chairman, I'd like a moment of your patience. I am registering your application, in any case, it has been handed over to me that you are with priority right for an open general debate. I really do have it here the way the application is. That is, if you wish to sign up before the opening of the general debate, I can give you the floor, but after President Andrej Babiš, who reported before you. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u12	So thank you for your word. Well, the minister didn't fail. I think you're second in line for arrogance. Minister Síkela is the epitome of arrogance, and you're second. You were personal again, you were attacking again, you were talking nonsense about Orbán again. Presidential elections? And who won the presidential election? You guys won the presidential election. Your Nerudová, I don't know where you're gonna put her right now, she said that on TV. We've withheld the fact that we're robbing seniors, not raising them. You've all been waiting for your presidential candidate to perform here yesterday... So what presidential election? You won the presidential election. You've got a new totalitarianism and a Constitutional Court and everything. You're not even allowed to speak slowly here, are you? And you're mainly dealing with Lex Babiš here. That psycho Michálek thinks if he makes Lex Babiš two, he'll get rid of Babiš. Well, he won't. Because you didn't understand that I meant it! If you wanted to get rid of me, you chose me, you should have elected me president, then I couldn't campaign for five years. And I look forward to it, the European campaign. And I'm going to go around the Czech Republic and tell people what you've done. So you're not a manipulator, you're quoting some data here. Yes, but you didn't say the essence. We offered money on the condition that not one illegal immigrant comes! You forgot to say that. Why didn't you say so? You're manipulating again and you're lying! Don't lecture me. You've been there three days with the road, I've sat there for a long time on those councils, you don't even know, you've never sat at the European Council where Prime Minister Fiala sits. And I hope you never even sit there because you don't know anything about it! So don't give me any lectures on migration. Unlike you, I've been everywhere! [[An explosion of laughter and applause from the right.]] I don't know what you're laughing at. Ha ha ha. It'll catch up to you. Yes, I was - Frontex. Are you talking about Frontex? You were at the border somewhere? Or what are you talking about these migrants? What do those migrants have on the Hungarian border? Ask the Hungarian policemen. They're armed. They want to cut them, your migrants! And you're talking about me smelling blood? You can pray that Czech blood never flows here because of a Syrian migrant, as it is in France. I'll keep my fingers crossed. And what were you handling here? I was told by Nova that you claimed that no Syrian migrants were coming - you said that was a live entry, you came after me - that migrants from the Soviet Union came here, the editor said. Then why were you guarding the border from Slovakia? Yes, they go through the Czech Republic. Yes. And this is about the principle. So one more time. We never allowed and did not agree to have illegal migrants come to Europe. You agreed. That's the point. The document says you agree that at least 30,000 illegal migrants will come to Europe every year. That's the principle. Are you talking about an exception? Well, I don't know where the... It's not important. The important thing is that you had in the program that we would prevent the illegals from coming to us. We even wanted those ships to come back. Those ships that are loading on the line with Libya, nonprofits are loading them on ships and driving them to Europe. And those migrants are paying thousands of euros, even flying to Libya, Tripoli. I don't know what's funny about that. Don't lecture me here, I can talk here for ten hours about migration. You weren't on either line! [[Minister of Austrians: He was.]] And when I was in Hungary, yes, after we sent our 50 cops there, I sent them there, they detained 7,000 migrants and smugglers, so you were already so embarrassed, you already - as incredible, so you forbade them to meet me while I was there, they were banned, they were free. Like, incredible. It's like it's completely unreal. So you're talking - yes, Medevac, yes. But the principle and the basis was that we never agreed that someone would come to Europe illegally. And you agreed! [[He's knocking hard at the counter.]] Thirty thousand minimum. And there could be a million of them! Even a million. And then whether you got the money or didn't get it is irrelevant. The principle. You betrayed that principle. And if you don't know, we're in Schengen. So if there's a million instead of 30,000, like Merkelová did when she invited them, then I'm curious. I'm curious. You're still talking about Orbán. Orbán saved us in 2015. He built a fence. Everyone criticized him. Everyone. And then they all turned around. You didn't follow the Greek election, what did the Prime Minister actually say, why did he win? Why did he convince them? The steel fence, which separates Greece from neighbouring Turkey, was one of the major themes of the weekend parliamentary elections. And the results show that the Greeks were impressed by the warning against the growing immigration wave. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, right-wing leader The new democracy, in fact, scored a promise to complete the already existing barrier so as to fully cover the 192 kilometers long land border with Turkey. Turecko. Then ask Erdogan. I dealt with him for two hours at his palace about migration. Who's got the trigger on it? Who sent him 3 billion euros. The way it all was. You threw it all overboard, and you're lecturing me here when you don't know anything about it. Nothing about... The integration of migrants in Sweden has failed, the Prime Minister admitted. Violence has increased. Violence has increased. Slovakia will deploy an army due to migration. There's a tent camp at the border. On that Nova (?) You said none of these guys were gonna... Yeah, they're in transit, we know that. Illegal migration is growing in Europe. Czech Republic solves almost twice as many cases. So what are you guys talking about? You were just being arrogant again, attacking me again, making a fool of me again. I mean, the European Council where you've never been isn't gonna vote, okay? And I have, of course, been on the Council of Finance Ministers for a long time, so unlike you, I know how to negotiate. I know what's going on behind closed doors. I know who yelled at us - you should never have been in the European Union! Solidarity? What are you talking about? What solidarity was there when Merkelová distributed vaccines? And we didn't get them because the money guys got them. Yes, solidarity is, of course. You're the one who's talking nonsense, and you're just making unnecessary attacks. You didn't answer our question. You didn't show us your mandate. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová here says the government has discussed this. Then show us the mandate. Here's the mandate of Hamáček 20. Ten-two. You didn't show. You have not answered the question whether you have informed the Committee for the European Union, where Mr Benešík is chairing, you have not mentioned it either, and you are actually manipulating it. You're manipulating. Yes, we said: we'll never accept migrants illegal, we don't want smugglers to make decisions, we don't want them to come, and we'll give money for that. For that V4 you totally broke up, and here you can say a hundred times that Poland don't know what, Poland... Well, Poland doesn't want it because they probably know what it's about. Why didn't you coordinate? Why did the Slovák stay? And not only these countries, but Greece and Italy are questioning this, the whole deal. So they expressed concerns about whether the new system would work. It won't work! Of course it won't. How are you gonna do that? All over the Mediterranean coast, will you have the Frontex? It's gonna be... Watching those smugglers' ships, he's gonna record it? And then you're gonna look for those migrants running around somewhere? Then you're picking them up? Or what are you going to do? How's this gonna work? It's nonsense. Total nonsense! And it's an invitation for them: come to Europe. At least 30,000 will take you. Continuously. Continuously! Every year. Every year. [[16.20 hours]] So that's the main problem that you agreed to come here. And that's the basis for the smugglers to decide, and that's why we fought for it. And now you've flushed the whole thing and here you're attacking, talking about the Renew faction. What do you care what kind of faction we're in? We're a rich bride! Six MEPs were the most, except for Renew, apart from Macron, he had seven. So what are you mixing here, what are you attacking this Orbán? You can thank him for the fence because we were, we had a lot of migrants here, he stopped them. And now everyone's building fences. Polák, Denmark, Sweden woke up. Magdalena, former Prime Minister, et cetera. So you don't know anything about it, and you're still attacking normally. So you haven't answered the mandate, we don't know the position. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová showed some information there. During our reign there was a European agenda and there was a vote. That's where she... The minister got the mandate. The Hubáčková, who agreed to stop production with internal combustion engines, even though Prime Minister Fiala said that he did not agree to this on 19 December 2021. Did she have the mandate, or did she not? What was the mandate? And what was your mandate? You didn't tell us. You're not answering those questions, you're manipulating them, and you're showing that we got some... It has nothing to do with anything. You should have won 40 billion for the Czech Republic because we accepted the third largest number of Ukrainians - and these are real refugees. You're talking about solidarity. I mean, solidarity is voluntary, we volunteered the Ukrajinec, right? Voluntarily. And then we should have asked for money. It's Greece that's gonna need money for the fence. Of course, they give nothing to Orbán, but the others get; Italy, Spain, Greece. Well, simple, 'cause they're gonna say, well, if you don't give us the money, then we're gonna let it go. And then Erdogan comes and talks. So you don't know anything about it, and here you're giving me some sense that I was abusing it. And the terms you quoted here, I didn't use any of those terms, I came out very specifically. In short, you didn't understand at all that you agreed something that was contrary to the SPOLU program, contrary to Pirstan, contrary to the government's programming statement. And that principle, you're skipping the principle. Again, you said Europe says at least 30,000 illegal migrants who are organized by smugglers. Come! And if there's 300,000 of them, how's that going to split up, how's that gonna work? Well, it's stupid from the ground up, and we went back to 2015. When you talk about solidarity, solidarity is voluntary, and you have a duty to do so. What is compulsory solidarity? I don't understand. We volunteered for Ukrainian refugees here, and you were supposed to fight for money in Europe. You didn't fight. V4's broken. This is the result. The Polák is against, Slovakia is delayed, Hungary is against and so on. So it's hell. And I'm keeping my fingers crossed for nothing to happen, because this is really a security matter. And the five years - more, six years or seven years we fought there, so you just ruined it and threaten the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, we are still here before the debate is opened. I have two priority rights here. The first to appear is Rozvoral, who represents the President of Radim Fiala for the rest of the day, and then Minister Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government. I will stick to the facts in my speech, so to speak, to first-instance approval of changes in migration and asylum policy at European Union level. Specific information, quotes and a clear description of the various contexts of this matter. I also stress that this is not about any theoretical floscule and non-binding political proclamations, but about binding and enforceable EU legislation on the amendment of key legislation on asylum and migration at European Union level, and, of course, for all its Member States. Last week's agreement is de facto an entry into the negotiating position of a future binding regulation on asylum and migration management, which Member States will be obliged to apply directly to their legislation, regulations and practices, without any changes or exceptions. This Agreement will also form the basis for the negotiations of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union with the European Parliament and for the subsequent final vote on the definitive form of those Union binding legal standards. What's not much to talk about? This future Asylum Procedure Regulation is intended to introduce common asylum procedures throughout the European Union, which each Member State will have to implement and comply with its rules in cases where migrants apply for international protection. To date, this issue is a matter of high competence for the Member States and their national asylum law. And that's right. And it's the only viable and acceptable option for us. Individual procedural measures are being simplified, for example, to reduce the duration of asylum procedures to six months, which is also counterproductive, and in a number of cases this will not allow sufficient examination of the applicant's past and whether it provides relevant and true data. The important information is that this pre-negotiated regulation on asylum and migration should replace the existing Dublin regulations, the so-called Dublin agreements, which govern asylum and migration matters on the territory of the European Union today and are relatively balanced with certain reservations. The second thing is that some Member States do not follow them in the long run, but that is another matter. This is to be dealt with by the competent judicial authorities, such as the Court of Justice of the European Union and the like, but it certainly is not a reason for their rapid change, which, moreover, is clearly a change to worse. For example, the Dublin agreements say that a migrant to the European Union must seek asylum in the so-called first safe country to enter within the Union, and that the duty in this asylum procedure is to be decided by this particular country and by no one else. This principle is now to be demolished, among other things. What does the proposed new solidarity mechanism have to contain last week, which is truly the Orwellian term? Several things, including the so-called relocation, which is basically just a synonym for moving a migrant to another EU Member State on the basis of numerical quotas, so it is not quite the end of the migration quotas. It is a fact that mandatory, or ordered, dictated solidarity can be shown otherwise. For example, a financial contribution of almost CZK 500,000 per non-moved migrant, staffing or measures aimed at building some undetermined capacity. And the quotas here, according to the text of the proposal, will indeed be in the form of the existence of a minimum annual number of transfers from the Member States in which most persons enter the European Union, i.e. from so-called states to the external borders of the Union, to those Member States that are less exposed to such arrivals. This figure, this quota is set at 30,000 migrants per year, while the minimum annual amount for these financial contributions is set at EUR 20 000 per transfer, both of which may be increased if necessary. By the way, appalled is also the fact that these financial contributions will not be directed towards countries affected by the most illegal migration, but to a specially created fund managed by the European Commission. The proposal also includes the date of compensation by taking responsibility as a second step solidarity measure for the benefit of the Member States benefiting from this solidarity. This means that a contributing Member State, such as the Czech Republic, will assume responsibility for examining a request for asylum by persons who, under normal natural circumstances and under the current legal condition, would be subject to transfer to the responsible Member State under the said Dublin agreements. Attention, this system will become mandatory if the transfer promises do not reach 60 per cent of the total needs identified by the Council of the European Union for a given year or reach the number set out in the regulation, i.e. 30 000. [[16.30 hours]] So we don't have that much choice, nor do we have to pay a half-million-dollar extortion fee for one illegal migrant to free us from the obligation to handle asylum applications in the Czech Republic for the money of Czech taxpayers for people who have come to another country and are not seeking asylum from us. Our police, intelligence and courts may have little work and a lot of money, so Minister Rakušan gave them this interesting job. The advocates of this new migration agreement say that this is a fair, correct and balanced text that preserves our choice. Yes, here I must agree, the compulsory solidarity is metaphorically speaking a choice, i.e. a choice between the death of hanging, shooting or electric chair. So much for the content of the agreement, which is clearly disadvantageous and harmful to our country. Now to its further connection, or the important link of our support for this agreement, to the vote of Minister Rakušan for this agreement. As has already been said, the Czech Republic supported this agreement in the person of Minister Rakušan, who did not have the mandate of the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies as a whole and, above all, did not have the slightest mandate from Czech citizens to do so, as the only State of the Visegrad Four. Hungary and Poland opposed, Slovakia abstained. Yes, even Slovakia, although it is now temporarily in the power of the liberal, quite progressive civil-president government, did not actively vote for this agreement. It is therefore certainly a betrayal on our part of the joint action and the strategic cooperation of the Visegrad Four countries, which is our supreme national interest and the basis of any imaginable resistance to the insanely binding legislative measures of the European Commission and of the European Union, regardless of whether they relate to Green Deal or anything else. The current Czech government is gradually and deliberately breaking up this key form of our international political cooperation, which is a fundamental mistake from a pragmatic point of view, since if a proposal is voted against within the Council of Ministers of the European Union by a well-defined number of states, it can create a so-called blocking minority and prevent such a proposal from being adopted, or also from a long-term strategic point of view, because partners from the Visegrad Four, after this current Czech government has betrayed them several times, will next think carefully about whether they will support us in the institutions of the European Union with their vote when we need it in the future. It is a harmful and short-sighted policy by the government of Petr Fiala. Slovak Interior Minister Ivan Šimko, who abstained in the vote on the agreement, stated, among other things, that some of its provisions are difficult to accept and politically impossible for Slovakia, even after the text was modified. Polish Interior Minister Bartosz Grodecki stated to the agreement that Poland refused to pay fines for not bringing migrants into Europe in bulk. This is a very capidative and precise summary of the nature of the new EU migration pact. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán even said that the European Union wants to place migrants in its country by force through a new regulation of asylum policy: Brusel exploits powers, wants to place migrants in Hungary by force. This is unacceptable. They want to force Hungary into a country of migrants, said Prime Minister Orbán through his spokesperson Zoltán Kovács. And one more vote from Poland from Prime Minister Morawiecký himself: As long as the Government of Rights and Justice is in power, we will not allow anyone to impose any migration quotas, quotas for refugees from Africa, the Middle East, arab, Muslims and God knows who else, the Polish Prime Minister said. Yes, in this agreement, as I discussed a moment ago, the idea and rule of quotas for migrants actually exist, although in a different form than in 2015. It is now a quota for the current asylum application in a given country, after which illegal migrants can be transferred to another Member State or those Member States will pay for it. So speaking in connection with Mr Rakušan's vote on this migration quota agreement is completely substantive, appropriate and legitimate. Or does anyone present want to accuse the Polish Prime Minister of lying? Let us not allow people's smugglers to dictate the conditions of the European Union - that is what the Polish Prime Minister said, and I am signing this, because the European Union, the European Commission and the governments of its Western states have completely resigned from the fight against the causes of illegal migration to Europe and are fighting this, even dubiously and incorrectly, only with its symptoms and tragic consequences. In connection with the vote of our Minister of Interior on the partners of the Visegrad Four, I mentioned the so-called blocking minority within the institutions of the European Union. What's going on? This is the number of votes needed to block any proposal in the relevant section of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, which finally approves binding Union legislation. The form of this blocking minority can be internally flexible and must always meet two basic conditions. The blocking minority must consist of at least four Member States of the European Union which, at the same time, represent more than 35 percent of the total population of the European Union. So it really depends on every voice, in this case, on the position of each Member State. That is why it is as crucial as the Czech Republic will vote. In addition to Poland and Hungary, which were strictly opposed to Slovakia, Lithuania, Malta and Bulgaria, they did not vote in favour of the proposal for new migration regulations. And in the final vote, the conditions for blocking the standard may be even more favourable, because, in some Member States, elections will take place, after which anti-immigration parties can enter the governments of these countries, and elsewhere, current governments can change their minds under pressure from the opposition or from the public. If the blocking minority did not consist only because the Czech Republic did not join it, it would be a complete tragedy that would permanently damage us on the European scene and, above all, damage the Czech state and its citizens, current and future generations. Colleagues and colleagues, I will conclude by expressing why, for us, the SPD movement, the vote of Minister Rakušan and the entire government's actions on the migration asylum agreement are unacceptable not only in terms of content, but also politically and in principle. Ladies and gentlemen of the five-calice each time we don't like any of their bills or any of their executive measures - and that it is practically a day - they say that's what the voters have decided, we have a mandate to do it, wait until you win the election, and then change it. Yes, to some extent it is true, and we may also be fair to Minister Jurečka in our mutual pension reform, who have been told which parts of it will be abolished after we have government responsibility. But these migration regulations of the European Union, this is a completely different coffee, a completely different case. Colleagues, if this passes one day, none of us will ever change, it will always be here with us. This is not a one-time vote, it is a commitment to life, even for future generations. By the way, something similar applies to Minister Černochová, signed under the Czech-American defence agreement. Although there is a long-term commitment "only" for ten years, it still goes far beyond the horizon of two additional parliamentary periods and the term of office of at least two other governments coming after you, and you are not authorized to make such commitments. They were not part of your electoral programs, they were not consulted with the opposition, they were not consulted with the citizens. By the way, it would be no harm in both cases to consult the Constitutional Court, since it is undoubtedly a significant restriction on our state sovereignty and there may be other collisions with the Czech Constitution. In these circumstances, such as the fundamental change in the European Union's migration and asylum policy with extensive and negative effects on the Czech Republic, we do not believe that the Czech Government should be authorized to decide, not only yours, without the prior expression of Czech citizens in the form of a general national binding referendum. dáma and gentlemen, the government of Petr Fiala has absolutely no right to put Czech citizens at risk of receiving illegal migrants, whose negative to brutal effects we well know from Western and Southern Europe, nor to deepen drastically the state debt by continuing to pay for the illegal migrants from other countries to be placed with us. Figuratively speaking, you do not have the right to test on our citizens and on our country the truthfulness of the legendary Italian poet Dante, who sounds like the journey to paradise begins in hell. If this change in EU migration policy is finally approved and put into practice by your actions, this is also a clear reason for the immediate departure of the Czech Republic from the European Union. Thank you for your attention and I will read our resolution in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. We still find ourselves before the debate is opened. Minister Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will not be able to respond very briefly, even if anyone else has spoken before the debate is opened. I think that all Members of the debate deserve the time to be able to speak and comment on the subject, and I will also respond to the rapporteur collectively at the end when the questions of other colleagues are raised. Well, I'm gonna let the debate go, but I'm gonna get off and answer the questions anyway. Through the Vice-President, my colleague Babiš, I am not making a fool of you. I'm not. It's just not like that. And the thing I want to say, and I confess to her, unlike you, I haven't been everywhere, I haven't seen everything, and I haven't dealt with everyone. You're right about that. Not in the rest of the stuff. I would like to say to you that, of course, I have also been to the border, at several external borders of Schengen, as well as in the exercise of my office. I was at the border to look when Belarus tried to instrumentalise migration in the Baltics, where the situation was certainly not easy either. By the way, this migration pact approved by the Czech Republic responds very specifically to the means against the instrumentalisation of migration based on Baltic experience. So also another good instrument to face what just happens is that states such as Russia, Belarus and similar migration will abuse political pressure on the European Union. We just have a hunch. And this pact is not an invitation. This pact treats the way migrants who come to Europe are treated. And those migrants would, of course, come, whether there's a pact or not. Until now, we didn't have a pact, and we see what the migration strain was like last year. Let us not associate the numbers of migrants with whether or not this pact has been adopted. On the contrary, he has a clear process to determine how to return people to third and safe countries, how to tighten up border procedures, so that those people at the borders get here significantly worse and they are duly registered, and he gives a choice of the three types of solidarity that I was talking about. You didn't respond to that at all. You have not responded at all to point (c) that this is also solidarity, which, of course, is different from financial and relocation. This is directly stated in the resolution itself. I really don't want to lecture you, I wouldn't dare. I'm not likely to be able to follow all the mental marches and contexts that were in your speech. I am just saying that this is a position of self-confident, Europeanly responsible Czech Republic, which protects the safety of its citizens, and perhaps by rejecting mandatory relocations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. One more priority right - rapporteur Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. In that second speech, I expected the Home Secretary to respond to whether he had a mandate from the government to approve such a regulation. Unfortunately, there's no way he answered that, so I take it he didn't have a mandate, because if I look at the minutes of the meeting, that vote isn't there. And I would really like to know how individual members of the government voted. I've been expecting you to do that, Minister. You didn't do it. You have not answered the question of why the Committee on European Affairs has not discussed this. Why didn't he discuss it? Will the President of the Committee on European Affairs comment on this, if any? If so in the past, can you explain to me why this has not been discussed in the committee? Did it have to be hidden in any way? Or why was it? The answer that I do not know why Poland voted against? I don't know, Mr. Secretary. You were on the Council of Ministers. I haven't been there for one or two days, so I suppose you should know why Poland voted against. At the same time, you didn't answer. First of all, when you're talking about these relocations, I would like to point out once again that what's fought out here in the last few years has clearly said it here - you're talking about solidarity, yes, but you've approved compulsory solidarity! And that's a big difference. The minimum number of relocations from Member States, where most applicants join the EU, will be determined in the Member States. The quota will be 30,000 displaced migrants, where, of course, we can be expected to have to accept migrants from Italy, Spain, Greece in particular. If we don't accept them, then we're going to have to pay with money, that means 500,000 per migrant per year, with that, and you didn't say that if Brusel recognizes it, then it's going to be as much value as it's going to pay for the unaccepted migrant, and how much number is going to be in the quotes, how much is going to be redistributed, then Brusel will do whatever it wants, and how much can it raise it in any way! And that's what Andrej Babiš was talking about, that the number could be much bigger. You're talking about showing us an exception this afternoon as part of our solidarity, yes, and it's clear that people within Ukraine fled from the war and it was voluntary. I'm stressing it again, it was voluntary! And these people are on temporary protection today. You say it's until March next year, and you say that they will then follow the asylum law. But won't they follow the Foreign Law and ask for a long-term stay? And now I'm asking you, what will happen in a year or two? Yes, if you say you'll bring us the exception. I haven't seen her, nobody knows about her, she's not listed anywhere. You keep saying you're gonna show us the exception, that you negotiated it. But I'm asking, what happens then? What happens next, in the future? Because you're the Home Secretary. You are the most important person in ensuring the safety of our citizens. And I ask, and you know very well that in the context of illegal migration, these people do not want to go to the Czech Republic. They're looking for other targets, and today we see it. We're a transit country. And you think - so it's practically going to be compulsory solidarity, which means how do we force these people or order them to be in that state? I didn't understand that at any rate, and I think that's where security is at great risk, because if that person wants to go to another state, I think that if we order him something, it certainly can't have any success. We can't order anything. But above all, the most important thing is that you have put our sovereignty in jeopardy. You've practically given your consent that we will no longer be able to decide who will come to our territory and who will live here. I call on you again from this place, Minister of the Interior, to answer the questions I have asked you, and that is what your mandate has been from the Government of the Czech Republic and what was the specific vote of the various members of the Government, and why you have not told anyone why you have withheld it and why you have not discussed it on the Committee on European Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. And since no one with prior rights applies anymore, I am initiating a general debate in which I first register two applications with priority rights, and Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be the first to speak, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala will also have priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I will take it from another side, but it obviously has a great correlation. We're not raising taxes. This was not only claimed in 2021 before the elections. I might still understand that a little bit, the situation has changed. This was claimed by the Prime Minister in the autumn of 2022. No income tax for legal persons, no business tax, no real estate tax and so on. How'd it go? Everything's different in a few months. You lied! [[16.50 hours]] B, we're going to the European Union, and we're not going to let it be approved here that cars will end up on internal combustion engines in 2035. How'd it go? You voted for the end of the cars for internal combustion engines. You lied, Prime Minister. Next, we will go to the European Union, and there we will fight to increase the number of emission allowances. That's right, totally reasonable, because then the price drops. You were in charge of the pellet, Prime Minister, who agreed to reduce their numbers. More expensive energy will most likely be translated into Czech. Again, you lied. Next, you've extended the emission allowances to households through cars and over heating and so on. Something completely different from what you promised. I'm getting closer to the point, and that's migration. It had its goals before the election. We insist that each country be free to choose its own migration policy and access to asylum seekers. We reject mandatory quotas. PirSTAN - we will promote a responsible approach to migration involving a solution without quotas. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Prime Minister, read it again. Again, I must say, unfortunately, you lied. Because what you've agreed to is nothing but a change of quotas. You say solidarity, yes, but solidarity equals volunteering, not duty. That you're saying today - and maybe that's what bothers me the most - that at the moment we have an exception - so where are we getting to? We are in a situation where the country that received more than 500,000 Ukrainian refugees in the first wave... You know, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, very well that we played with you in this, that we didn't torpedo it, that we respected that it had to be that way, that we had to be friendly, that we had to be solidarity, and we were. Yes, we were arguing about a whole series of techniques, about how those refugees came here, how they got into the work process and so on. This is a technical discussion, but in principle, we were in this with you on the same boat. It was solidarity. And yes, the Czech Republic has become one of the most solid countries in the whole of the European Union without being forced to do so. We did this because we consider it right for many reasons of historical, factual and so on. We, who today have a number of Ukrainian refugees per head - perhaps the most of them from the whole European Union, because Germany has the most of them, then Poland, then we, but according to the population, suspect that it is most common with us - are we to be grateful today that we have agreed a kind of exception that may take a year, maybe two, I don't know, no one knows at this time - that we do not have to pay anything? Don't you think that's a little undignified? Why do we even get into this situation that today we have to be grateful to anyone for not having to pay anything at the moment? We're solidarity, mega-solid, and that's good. I say again, we understand each other in this, but we absolutely don't understand each other in what happened. There have been many times here today who is responsible for what, who had what mandate, who did not have a mandate, but in any case the Czech Republic has become a petitioner is something that cannot be accepted even for a minute! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u21	I thank you, and as the next priority right, Prime Minister Petr Fiala is registered. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, two factual points have jumped over here, which take precedence over priority rights. The first is Mrs Karla Maříková and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Unfortunately, Minister, I could not respond earlier because the debate was not open. But you said here that the Czech Republic will not pay any solidarity fees until we are burdened with migrants from Ukraine. I suppose this war will end one day, I hope as soon as possible that many of these people will return home. What are we gonna make excuses for then? Then we'll have to pay, I suppose. So what's next? Will you tell us here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. As the next two minutes, Mr Zdeněk Kettner and his point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to Minister Rakušan. It's not a mandatory relocation, but we're supposed to pay about 500,000 per person. For who? So a sausage like the world hasn't seen? So they're non-existent migrants. In that case, we can send non-existent money. Why should we worry about that? So they're such amazing contradictions. Mandatory solidarity. Well, it's like I said right, so we take a murder, say it's an involuntary, premature end of life, and it stops being a murder? I don't like hearing haunting, haunting, haunting, haunting. Those are the facts. If you're not living on Mars and you're able to find out about the information, there are huge problems with migration. And if it's haunting that we're pointing out the facts, then maybe we can cancel the fire prevention. Because like a fire extinguisher on the wall, it's actually a fire scare. Or we'll cancel the first aid kit because it's haunting some kind of health problem. We're not gonna scare people with resuscitation because it's a haunting that somebody could possibly have a heart attack. So it's not haunting. Those are the facts!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Other factual points follow. First of all, President Tomio Okamura, Mr Jiří Mašek, also has factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u26	Well, I want to ask you right here, because the item is called Information of the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan about approved compulsory solidarity, and Minister Rakušan is not here. So I propose a five-minute interruption until the Minister returns. Now my colleague tells me she's on the toilet, so I suggest a break -- that's for sure everyone, it's been an hour -- for five minutes until the return of Home Secretary Vít Rakušan. Because there are questions falling from the mouths of our Members Karla Maříková and Zdeněk Kettner about the Minister, and we would like them to be answered. Because what the Minister in the European Union has agreed on behalf of the Fialův Government is so serious that it deserves the public to hear the answers. Five minutes, then. I think it's a helpful suggestion. Or three minutes. If we can, five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u27	Mr President, this has usually been tolerated in the course of negotiations, the physiological requirements have been respected in some way, but if there is a five-minute recess requirement, then let the club chairman or the person representing him make this request. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u28	I'll ask for five minutes' break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u29	Okay, thank you. I will comply with your request. Five minutes recess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for the SPD's break has run out. We will continue the debate. There are three factual points. Mr. Jiří Mašek will be the first to perform, then Karla Maříková and then Zdeněk Kettner. All three are factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I would like to address my previous speakers here in response to Minister Rakušan and, in particular, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, with a specific question: Did the Minister of the Interior come to Luxembourg with a mandate to sign or not? I ask because in a press release after the government meeting in Vimperk 7. 6. at 16 o'clock 56 minutes was published what was discussed in the government, and all ends at paragraph 7: Report on a business visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia - please, I will not compose the name - from 10 to 14 May 2023. Then point (d) Various and then points for information. Point 8: Information on the position of the Czech Republic at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council has been added to the record of the meeting of the Czech Government, which is now published on the Government's website. The Vice-President informed on the issue of asylum migration policy to be held in Luxembourg on 8 and 9 June 2023. So here is a fundamental contradiction in the outputs. And here's what I'm gonna say. I was here asking the Minister for European Affairs the same evening 8. 6. and he answered me on a direct question very evasively, and that it was mentioned in some way. So why is there a contradiction? I want an answer from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. As another Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u33	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, since you have not been here and I would like to hear the answer to my question, I will take it again. You said that the Czech Republic will not pay any solidarity fee until we are burdened with migration from Ukraine. I suppose this war will end as soon as possible, and I'm sure we all want it. Many of these people will return home to Ukraine. And I wonder what happens next. Well, it turns out to me that we're gonna have to keep paying. So if you can tell us here? Actually, the rapporteur here asked for something similar, but we didn't hear any answers from your mouth. So I'd like to ask you if you could answer my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. As another Mr Zdeněk Kettner, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Let me repeat this once more, please the Minister, so he doesn't keep saying it's some kind of haunting. It's a statement of facts. They're just facts. And I said we could just cancel fire prevention or medical because it's haunting a fire or some kind of medical indisposition. The attacks are just happening, it's a deterioration of the security risk. Of course, the media always downplay it by having psychic problems. So I just feel like the rest of the world is suffering from mental problems, and then we have to treat them here. And I have such a question, you've always said here that it's not a mandatory relocation, that there's no such thing, but we'll be obliged to pay CZK 500,000 for one imaginary immigrant. By the way, a teacher, after 25 years of practice, makes an average of 390,000 a year. Well, just because we can't afford a teacher, we don't have a pensioner, but I guess we're gonna be borrowing for this. So I wanted to make a suggestion when they're imaginary migrants, that we could pay with imaginary money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will be next. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would take advantage of the de facto and what the Home Secretary was talking about, and ask one basic question, I've been wondering all along. How is it possible and when does the European Union decide to launch a debate on such a mechanism? Why now? Why not a year ago when the war started here in February? Because if you look at the population, if I counted it well, we are among the countries that have adopted the most migrants in the last 10 years, or we are among the countries that have adopted the most. If a mechanism like this had been in place here a year ago, we would have actually been in a phase today that we would have gotten the money from those other states as much as we're talking about it here. So I'm quite interested in where you are, if you can tell me where the trigger is, Minister, ideally - now I've only just seen you, I didn't know you were sitting among ordinary MPs, so I'm sorry, so I was looking at the Prime Minister - but where is he, that is such a basic question among others, but I don't think there's gonna be a turn for me: where does the impulse arise? Why now? Why not a year ago? Why is it only when it's starting now... is there any risk of a migratory wave from the Mediterranean? This is simply a legitimate legitimate question, because then the Czech Republic, Poland and all these countries are at an obvious disadvantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. As another Member, Mr Jiří Mašek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not quite finish this in a hurry, which is why I would like to ask the Minister very specifically, because we were together in the Committee on Security in the past period. There were other Members, Mr Žáček, then, Mrs Černochová, you, Mr Vice-President. And what brought us together in the context of migration, that we actually said no quotas, that we said to ourselves to protect ourselves at the border, to help at the point where problems arose. That's where we all held. [[17.10 hours]] That's where we all held. That's why I'm really very interested in whether the Minister went with the mandate, because I think that's absolutely crucial. The fact that he didn't discuss it in the Committee on European Affairs, the fact that he didn't even discuss the matter in the Security Committee - and Homeland Security is very much involved - is one that can be understood because that's the arrogance of the hundred and eight, and we've gotten used to it. In the past period, we also discussed in committees at a slightly different level. So I really want the answer. Because if the Minister went there today, as he said in Právo, that means: we discussed it repeatedly in the government and I made several phone calls with the Prime Minister from Luxembourg - for me it is, for me, very little to discuss such a serious matter, which is a direct threat to the Czech Republic's internal security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. Since there is no further factual point, I am giving the floor to Prime Minister Petr Fial. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u41	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I also want to comment on this issue and on the fact that the Member States of the European Union have agreed on an agreement on the reform of asylum policy on 8 June, and I want to explain some of the historical contexts, which I think will answer a number of questions that have been raised here, and the other questions will undoubtedly be answered by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. What needs to be realized above all is that this compromise that has been reached does not - and we cannot interpret it that way - because it is simply not true - does not lay down the final binding rules for members of the European Union. It is a position that will continue to be specified, and there is still negotiations in the European Parliament. And since this position is such that, in my opinion and our opinion, it could indeed significantly improve the situation in the area of migration, or even though that position is such, it cannot be expected that it would find the necessary support in the current composition of the European Parliament. Nevertheless, I think that this is an important breakthrough and that it corresponds to the long-term interests of the Czech Republic, which I can still do here. The reform of asylum and migration policy has long been discussed in Europe. Its current form doesn't work, we don't need to convince ourselves of that, we all know that. It does not work, among other things, because the asylum policy rules have been prepared for thousands of people coming to Europe to seek protection from persecution or from restrictions on freedoms. But that is not the case, and the original setting simply does not work well in the situation that we have faced in recent years, when some European Union countries have been dealing with not thousands, but tens of thousands of applications a year for several years. Moreover, we cannot rely on external protection or adequate protection of the external border. Return policy, that is, what we have been talking about for years and in which nothing has been done, i.e. the return of those who have not found asylum grounds, does not work at all. And the problems are here, and they were here. Remember the migration waves in the middle of last decade. We weren't in the government. We could ask the question - how could you not have negotiated an effective migration policy at the time to prevent illegal migration, which would really work and where the Czech Republic might not then have to take the measures that we had to take to protect or control borders with Slovakia? And I am not asking you the question, because unlike you, I know how it works in the European Union, how forces are distributed and that there was no will or sufficient majority for this. And that majority - and that's changing now - most of them are, and we finally have a chance to do something about illegal migration. I described the situation, and I described the change. And what is the result of the situation? The borders of the European Union are overloaded. Solidarity between Member States works in a limited way, in all respects with regard to migration policy, and there is no functional common solution. The Member States have simply failed to reconcile their interests in this matter recently, to reconcile their priorities. This is a topic that has polarised the Union in the long run, and the situation has repeatedly hit its heels. We all know that. We don't have to answer that here. It's a common knowledge. And the border states, instead of registering migrants, let them continue to walk into the Schengen area. And this unhappy state does not only threaten cooperation between the countries of the European Union, but if we continue to look at it, it will also threaten our security. And the debate, the serious problem of a dysfunctional migration policy, and the need for reform of the asylum system, has often been reduced, has only shrunk to the issue of mandatory quotas, which is a dead end. The problems of asylum policy are wider, it is not just a problem of quotas, and they persist. And because there was no common solution, and you know it yourself, because you were in the government at the time of the problems, there was no common European solution, so some European states acted on their own and took extraordinary measures. For example, the Czech Republic at the turn of last year, when it renewed checks on the Slovak border. We know we're part of the debate, if there's no rechecking on the German border, so I can continue. If we do not agree on genuine reform of asylum and migration policy within the European Union, we will have problems. And one of these problems can be the end of free movement around Europe, one of the biggest advantages that the European Union brings to our export open economy. And just to resolve this, to prevent this, to achieve the result that is in the interests of the Czech Republic, we have come to an agreement on the reform of the asylum policy of 8 June, which solves this unsustainable situation for the first time in a long time. I would like to stress that the compromise that is accepted there corresponds to the interests of the Czech Republic and even to the long-term interests of the Czech Republic. A few years ago, the government of the Czech Republic, and it was the government of Andrej Babiš, set several objectives in the framework position, which clearly showed what form of migration and asylum policy our country wanted. And this framework position - and this again needs to know how it works in European politics and in Czech politics in terms of European affairs - this framework position also creates a mandate for the Minister of the Interior to discuss migration policy. And this framework position includes, for example, the requirement that Union solutions must not rely on mandatory quotas, that it should, on the contrary, allow for other forms of solidarity, such as sending experts to overloaded countries or financial assistance. All these demands from the framework position of the government of the Czech Republic - here is continuity, but it was the government of Andrej Babiš - are 100% enforced in the current compromise. The agreement provides that Member States can choose whether to help with the adoption of a part of the refugees, or whether they prefer to increase their financial support for the overloaded countries, or in other alternative ways, staffing with border protection, capacity building, help to address migration policy. [[17.20 hours]] In addition to the framework position approved by the Government of Andrej Babiš, we have been able to agree that countries facing migration pressure due to refugees from Ukraine - and here, please, it is a different regime, it is simply a different regime than asylum procedures, so we cannot put it together - but it has been achieved that countries facing migration pressure due to refugees from Ukraine will not be subject to new obligations. And this exception will last. And it's logical. Let's just listen so we don't have to ask ourselves those questions again. This exception will continue as long as we provide assistance to war refugees in the form in which it is today. If it turns out that the war will last longer, part of Ukrainian refugees will want to stay with us for a longer period of time, temporary protection will cease to work, they will have to seek asylum. At that point, the Czech Republic will be able to ask for solidarity, i.e. financial assistance from other countries. So tell me, what's disadvantageous about this, but what's incomprehensible about it? Quotas are not available. Solidarity - we can apply it in the form in which we have applied it. We don't have to, as long as we have temporary protection for Ukrainian refugees. When they ask for asylum, we will have the same opportunities as other countries. What is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic? Sure, you can argue, yes, that's not enough, you could have negotiated something else. The opposition politicians today criticize the government that we do not do enough in migration policy. I have seen the statement made by the Chairman of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš and so on and so forth. But I, too, because I have heard the arguments in the media, want to make it clear here that our results do not only reflect Czech interests in the form that our government defines, but also reflect the results in the form that the Czech Republic promotes in the long term. And everyone can see that what we have achieved through the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, is fully in line with what the Czech government previously demanded, which was chaired by Andrej Babiš. All the more absurd and weirder are the attacks that are going on here. And let us recall these specific requirements, the specific requirements of 2018, as reflected in the text of the compromise agreed by the Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan on 8 June 2023. Those are the principles. One. The agreement works with a broad interpretation of the principle of solidarity. Thanks to the work of the Czech Presidency, the definition of solidarity during negotiations has expanded to include the possibility of financial assistance and expert assistance. We therefore have the opportunity to continue to work together to ensure the security of the Union by means which we choose ourselves and which will make sense to us. What are we talking about here? The Czech Republic is already solidarity. You said so yourself. She's got solidarity now. We've been helping countries on the outside for a long time. We help them with border control, we help them build defensive capabilities, we contribute financially, we send experts, police officers, soldiers into these areas. And this is exactly the alternative model - either quotas or financial aid or alternative form of aid. This assistance is part of a new agreement. We will continue this assistance. It's in our long-term interest. Even here I have not heard from YES - I will not put it in SPD's mouth - that we should abandon this form of solidarity. Two. I'm still comparing with the government's 2018 framework position. Two. The European Commission does not have the option of ordering Member States to relocate. The mandatory flexible solidarity mechanism does not contain a requirement for the redistribution of persons, does not introduce mandatory refugee redistribution quotas. The Czech Republic will continue to decide who it will accept and under what conditions. And that was the thing that we agreed on, and that we clearly agreed with, and that we did not want, too, who were in opposition at the time. Three. The proposal is based on countries that are under great migratory pressure, such as the Czech Republic today. And that's just the way it is. I've told you before, I'll remind you one more time. The agreed exception is part of the compromise. He remembers that we, too, are already dealing with our refugee problems that we didn't have before. The European Union has promised additional financial support here to help Ukrainian war refugees, which is what the conclusions of the European Council of February this year also state. We're not asking anyone. We have negotiated in a normal way a mechanism that is advantageous for us and for Czech citizens. Four. Another principle. Member States shall be responsible for the conduct of asylum procedures and asylum seekers shall not have the possibility of secondary residence. That's a big break. States at Schengen borders will have to demand that migrants who enter their territory fulfil strict obligations. And one of these obligations is the impossibility of moving around Europe. This will also contribute to a significantly accelerated asylum procedure. Five. I am still comparing with the principles of 2018, with the framework position of the Czech government, then led by Andrej Babiš. The agreement makes asylum procedures more effective, return to safe countries and the fight against illegal migration. The regulation introduces a border procedure that will significantly accelerate the whole asylum procedure. That should take weeks, tops, units of months. Big change. Another big change: the agreement allows migrants to be returned to countries with which they have no connection. That's also something that's been called for a long time, which hasn't been assertable. That means you can return Nigerijec to Tunisia, for example. At the same time, the regulation prevents abuse of the asylum system. So aren't these significant changes? Six. The Agreement maintains the concept of border, asylum and return proceedings. Applicants shall no longer be authorised to enter the territory of the Member States during the border procedure. And the border procedure will be mandatory at the same time. Seven. The asylum and return management institute is strengthened, along with the overall management of migration within the European Union. This means, for example, that minors are not exempt from asylum procedures. And so I could go on. And we are strengthening cooperation with third countries. After all, it was also a long-term interest of the Czech Republic. According to all experts, this is one of the keys to dealing with illegal migration. And we are strengthening cooperation with third countries in terms of effective return policy, return sponsorship, readmission agreements and other things. And that is something that has also been impassable for a long time and that has been achieved in this agreement. I think you can verify very easily, but everyone, not only Members, can verify this, but also the public can verify that in all these cases the positions of the negotiated compromise, the position of our government and the position of the previous government, are in agreement. And that is a good thing in foreign European policy. Let me remind you of the general position of the government of Andrej Babiš. For example, there is an indication of solidarity in cases where a Member State is under migratory pressure. The Czech Republic will support the expansion of solidarity opportunities in negotiations, for example through expert or financial support. End of quote. It's all there. But I can't add anything more than that that's exactly what was agreed. Of course, it is ironic that our government succeeds not only in fulfilling our own promises, but also in fulfilling our predecessor's promises, which were not negotiated or negotiated at the time. So if the Chairman of the ANO movement wants to continue criticizing us for this agreement, he's criticizing himself. It should start with its framework position. He should read it well. And perhaps it would come to the conclusion that a more favourable agreement than has now been reached within the European Union cannot be reached and that the agreement corresponds to the long-term interests of the Czech Republic. [[17.30 hours]] I don't blame the criticism. I am surprised that some Members who ask questions, for example, do not listen to me when I answer questions. But that doesn't bother me either. I am not surprised at the position, because she is exactly the same as I have heard from the YES movement on all issues relating to the European Union. It's the same case as Green Deal, climate law, Fit for 55 package. It is not difficult to find out, and the public can convince it of what the previous government has advocated, what its position was, what its framework position was and how it prepared the limits for our government. And I say that in a number of cases it was reasonable, sometimes it was unreasonable, and suddenly all of a sudden it wasn't like they never did this, as if you didn't have this European policy and you criticize us for something that corresponds to what you yourself approved and what you wanted in the long run. So this whole thing doesn't make any sense. I do not know what kind of solution to migration policy you would have imagined. Perhaps we would ban international migration in some way, which is certainly an ideal solution, only it is not possible for this real world, this is not how things work in the real world. Ladies and gentlemen, but I apologize for the comment to the opposition, it is not so important, it is important to agree with the framework position. I mean, this agreement is advantageous for us, it brings faster, more accurate handling of the asylum application, which will be conducted strictly in the country that the asylum seeker will use as an entry country into the European Union - important. At the same time, it addresses an unfair and dangerous situation in its consequences, where some countries of the European Union are logically exposed to an incomparably greater burden on applications. This applies to southern countries today, but soon it may also concern the Czech Republic, let's not get illusions. The agreement thus strengthens security, strengthens the security of the Czech Republic, strengthens the security of the Schengen area, and that is our primary and most important concern. The new rules are much stricter from the point of view of illegal migration, ensuring the end of the free movement of unregistered foreigners around Europe. And this is something that the Czech Republic has opposed in the long term. Finally, I would like to say that we have made a certain shift, even a significant shift, but migration remains an important issue and we are not yet close to the time when these agreed rules will be approved. The process has already been discussed, the position of the European Parliament has already been discussed, and at this point I do not see the very great chance that in a short period of time we will be dealing with illegal migration, which offers or brings about this compromise. Today I attended an online meeting of countries holding a similar position to the Czech Republic just before the beginning of this extraordinary meeting. There are states from Denmark through Italy to Austria, countries that long-term want to deal with illegal migration, want to deal with it more strongly than it has been dealt with or not yet. We are active members of these countries and one of our common agreements and procedures is that we will want to discuss illegal migration and its resolution at the European Council at the end of June and reach conclusions on some clear positions in line with the agreement that was made at the last Council of Ministers of the Interior. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I therefore consider the resulting compromise to be appropriate to the interests of the Czech Republic, but also to the success of the Czech, long-term Czech approach to migration policy. Note also in this example that we have once again achieved a result in European policy that corresponds to the principles that we, as the Czech Republic, have long been defending and promoting and which we have previously -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u42	I'm sorry, Prime Minister, and I'm gonna ask the left side of the hall to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u43	- and that hasn't succeeded before. And it is because our European policy is based on the knowledge of the European Union, it is consistent, readable, and we are ready to seek agreement with similar-minded states and achieve the necessary majority to make reasonable agreements. And once again, it just shows that the principles that our government holds in European and foreign policy - and that is, constructive cooperation and finding solutions works more favorably than sulking and simply saying no, no, not everything that we could see in the past - just confirms that this foreign European policy is paying off to Czech citizens. I would also like to add two sentences to this as President of the Civil Democratic Party and as a person who has been sitting in this House for many years in the Committee on European Affairs. I have to say that this result is going exactly in the direction that we have been promoting here over the long term. We have long argued that we are ready to be solidarity, that we are prepared to share to a certain extent the burden of the migration crisis - we did not even know that we would be ourselves a country that would accept a huge number of refugees - but that we strongly reject quotas, that we are calling for preventive measures to be taken, that we demand a functional return policy, that we demand an effective solution at the external borders of the European Union. These are all the things that we have long held here, and these are all the things that appear in this compromise. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the time has finally ripened for us to push through this sensible and balanced position at the level of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. I'll have a nice afternoon. We took turns managing the meeting. The Prime Minister's speech raised nine factual points... eight factual points, sorry. First up is Mrs Maříková, Mr Babiš will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Prime Minister, you're in conflict here. On the one hand, you say - the deal is not binding. On the other hand, you say we can choose a way of solidarity. So either we accept migrants, or we pay for the money. About if we could translate it into Czech. Then you say that the Member States have failed to reconcile their priorities. Yes, some Member States like the Czech Republic did not want migrants. And what did you do? You just sold them. Take it or pay it, 'cause he doesn't even want the migrants for the money anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Babiš, Mr Zlínský, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u47	Prime Minister, you are an incredible manipulator. And you're just as manipulative as Green Deal. I explained your manipulation for an hour and a half yesterday. First of all, our 2018 position ended with blocking those quotas. This is the position of Hamack 2020. [[In an elevated voice.]] October 20th! This is headline 24 September 2020, Babiš says - if we do not receive refugees, we cannot return them! Solidarity cannot be required! The essence of the new draft EU migration policy is meaningless! You have no idea what's going on. You're talking about registration? I don't want any migrants to register! I don't want those ships to sail! I don't want to! [[In an elevated voice. Let's hear it from the left.]] Who's gonna be responsible for this? Yesterday, a ship sank, 400 people on board, 59 killed, 104 saved. You invited them! This is about Europe! Yes, the Czech Republic, if Rakušan patrols the border, they'll be picked up there. But this is about Europe! Europe! You invited them! Solidarity cannot be mandatory, it is a fundamental nonsense! We fought to keep those ships from going! We fought to get rid of those smugglers. Number four, you broke them, you betrayed them! We wanted to buy four ships. Czech Republic, we put EUR 8 million into the fund! God knows where the money ended up! Yes, they were supposed to help us fight those smugglers! So it's nonsense, don't tell me you're in the same position as us! We never wanted those illegal migrants to come, not to take ships, not to have the hope that anyone would accept them! Thirty thousand repeatedly every year you agreed! This is a disaster for Europe. You betrayed Vé 4... [[Time.]] And you don't know what you're talking about. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I don't know if Růžička or Pojar wrote it to you. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] But you're out of line. Nobody's supposed to go to Europe illegally! [[In an elevated voice.]] There's no welcome...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u48	I beg you to keep your time in the context of factual remarks. And now it's Mr. Zlínský's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I tried to listen carefully to you, and I was wondering if there was any prediction of what it would mean, the treaty here or the regulation on further developments for those South European states. Because I actually think those migrants are going to accumulate in Italy, Spain and other European countries, because they will actually be caught there, they won't be able to run over to other countries, and I have no doubt that the majority, I would say 100 percent of the countries will buy out of it, and so what will it do to those southern European countries before they have money, but they will be hoarded by inadaptable migrants. And surely there will be tremendous pressure to change the order to get rid of them somehow. And then I'd like to ask if agreements with the North African states have been agreed. You said the Nigerijec would drive to Tunisia, if that's what you said. And I have no doubt that a Nigerijec who finds himself in Tunisia will be taken there in some violent way, the first to think he'll come back if he has the money to pay for the smuggler. So I would like to ask you, if you would like to clarify how this concrete implementation of the plan, how the European Union is thinking, how it will prevent them from gathering together in those southern European states. If he's counting on a relocation to be carried out, that the northern states will take them, or that the migrants will be taken violently to the North African states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for keeping time. Next is Mr Nacher's turn and Mr Kettner will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. I thought I wasn't gonna talk. But I dare to respond to the Prime Minister's speech. I have one question - I don't see him here right now. He compared the current government's position several times with the 2018 framework position. And I confess, I don't know the details, I'm not an expert on it, but the logic of why they do it came to me. This government is making excuses for the war in Ukraine for almost anything. Inflation, energy prices, I don't know, the decline in real wages and so on. And for the first time, where we can really appeal to the war in Ukraine, for the first time, and it's a real, tangible, measurable fact, the Prime Minister is referring there and comparing himself to a five-year-old framework position. That means long before the war in Ukraine. I don't understand this position. The situation has significantly changed the position of the Czech Republic, which is what I was talking about here. So I would quite like to know if this is going to happen, so how will the Minister of the Interior answer the basic question, i.e. when and why is there such a mechanism in the European Union at the moment, who is comfortable with it, and why didn't it happen a year ago? That is a perfectly legitimate question, and it is also an answer to this strange comparison with a five-year-old framework position for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u52	I also thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Kettner's turn to prepare Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor. I listened to the Prime Minister's speech, and for moments I searched for some kind of rhetorical logic. I've heard there's no mandatory admission, but we're free to choose whether to accept or pay. It doesn't make any sense. By the way, even in the German press you could record headlines: Hooray, managed to dust off, already practically buried mandatory quotas managed to finally enforce. And that's the German press! No disinformation media. Therefore, since we are so voluntarily solidarity and we have only two options, either to accept migrants or to pay, I would like to know for which of these two options the government has decided to give citizens of the Czech Republic a chance to prepare what awaits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Benešík's turn to prepare Mr Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u55	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr Vice Prime Minister, Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was in the opening words of President Babiš that my name was mentioned as Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs. So I'll comment on the procedure. We discussed the press we're discussing today in 2020 - 18. 11. And that's when the press was introduced by Mr. First Deputy Interior Minister Jiří Nováček. It is quite common for such European press to be introduced to the European Committee by a majority by the Deputy Minister, not by the Minister, that we should not be mistaken, because the press is dozens, and the ministers have their representatives who deal with the European issue to do this. And let us not confuse this with the Prime Minister's mandate before the European Council, not before the Council of Ministers, or the Council of the EU, when the Prime Minister, represented by the European Council, usually comes before the Prime Minister, to present his mandate. So let's not mix pears with apples. What's the big deal today? It is a matter of fact that we, as a committee, have expressed our views on this press, we have adopted a resolution when we supported the 2020 government's framework position. That's our job. To express itself to the press as such and to the government's framework position on the press. But the press is at a different stage today, which is already... In fact, he is in the phase of approval in European institutions, and here the European Committee no longer expresses itself. We just did our job. And I must say that the current government is doing nothing but fulfilling the 2020 government's framework position. That's just my conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for keeping time. And now it is Mr Feranec's turn to prepare Mrs Pošarová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there have repeatedly been simple questions from Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mrs Mašek on the part of Mrašek on the part of the Minister and on the part of the Prime Minister. In what way did the government discuss the mandate, the position? It hasn't been answered. And I'm looking at government record 7. 6., so I state under (a) originally it was not at all in the invitation to the government's meeting. There was no background material. There's nothing in EKLEP. And suddenly it appears in the minutes, in the record, the First Deputy Prime Minister, informed the Government of the position of the Czech Republic on its asylum and migration policy at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council held in Luxembourg on 8 and 9 June 2023. This material, it was not voted on at all by the record! That day, there was a vote on everything, on important things that the government voted on. For example, the security of air transport of the Czech foreign team at the European Youth Olympic Festival. The results of a work visit to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Mongolia in the Czech Republic were voted on. But there was no vote on such important things as the attitude to migration! I used to go to government meetings as a deputy. The idea of the minister coming in and saying, I'm going to an important meeting, and my position is to call off what the government approved three years ago is very naive. That's not how it works. Let's do it again. Did the government discuss this? [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And with what result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, too. It is now Mrs Pošarová's turn to prepare Minister Rakušan. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor. I have a question for the Prime Minister too. May I ask what return sponsorship means? It's like a firecracker? Why should third countries take migrants when they turn Europe into a social system? Next, I wonder if the return policy was also being discussed, and what was the solution? Because, as far as I know, rejected migrants remain more than 40 percent in Europe, and so far no one has simply come up with a solution. As far as I'm concerned, I have a question for the Minister. Minister, when you actually made a promise to uphold the constitution and laws and that you promised your honor that you would carry out your mandate in the interests of all the people - I warn you, all the people and according to your best knowledge and conscience - it is in the polls that people rejected the migration reform of politicians, so you actually broke your promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, too. It is now time for Minister Rakušan to prepare Mrs Maříková. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. I just want to forward it, I know I'm taking my time - I want to answer it. But when we have a flood of factual comments, I have two minutes to answer, and I'm trying, with priority rights, to get into it. Unfortunately, we haven't even gotten to the proper hearing yet. Sorry about that, I don't know what other instrument to choose. First of all, my colleague Kettner did not listen to what Mr. Prime Minister and I said. There aren't just two options. You have said two options, through Madam President. There aren't, there are three of them. There is an alternative possibility of solidarity, capacity increases, technical assistance, personnel assistance to countries affected by migration. That's what the pact says. I literally quoted it here. Another thing from my colleague Nacher, if he focuses on my answer. At this point, you're wrong. For Ukrajinec, the so-called temporary protection is activated, a mechanism that is not subject to any other asylum standards. This means that the Czech Republic would not consume any funds from this fund, because temporary protection as such is no asylum mechanism. And one comment: seven years have been negotiated on the migration asylum pact. This is the result of a negotiation that lasted seven years. So it's not like it started negotiating sometime last year. I will also try to respond to the framework position. Yes, we were based on the framework position of the Government of 2020, which we fully fulfilled. President Babiš here spoke of the lack of solidarity. I will quote you in a little while that it contained solidarity, called for rejection of the relocation quotas - we fulfilled - and called for flexible solidarity - we fulfilled. This was the framework position from which we were based in our mandate, of course, discussed the Government Committee for the EU and put it on the agenda of individual mandates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u62	Mr. Secretary, just to be clear, I don't have an application here with priority rights from you, do you want me to write it down? [[Call off the microphone.]] I'm just here to register you. Okay, thank you. So now it's Mrs Maříková's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u63	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. The Prime Minister has already left, but if you're listening to this, he says we want to be solidarity. But we're not gonna have anything to pay off if we see what politics this government is running, so you're gonna waste all that money, so all you're gonna have to do is just flood us with migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. I don't make any more factual remarks. And now, with priority rights, this is Mr. Babiš's application. But I don't see the MP, so... Then I'll ask the Minister if... yes, I wrote it down. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u65	Well, thank you for pushing me, Madam Vice-President. And a few answers to the questions that have been asked here, maybe no longer have more time to worry about. Once again, the framework position was defined in 2020. It was then discussed and the government did not withdraw from this framework position. Are you asking for a government hearing? Yes, it was discussed by the government. But the government, if the government's general position as such does not change at the time, has expressed its consent in a consensual way, by discussing the point, with this point, and there is no need at this point, and I will quote a few paragraphs and procedures here, to deal directly with the vote at the government level. The terms of reference and consultation. The position for meetings was discussed by the EU Committee at a working level, where representatives of ministries, other institutions of the state, parliamentary, parliamentary officials, are present. It was definitely put into the system on 7 June afternoon, it was free access. Furthermore, at the working level, the EU Committee has already discussed the mandate for the Minister of the Interior 16. 5. Two weeks before the board, colleagues from the Ministry informed the EU Committee on the working level about the content of the material and the position of the Czech Republic. At this point, however, I want to say that the framework position of the Czech Republic has not changed and was based on the mandate, the valid mandate, from 2020. And I repeat one more basic assumptions, the so-called red line, the red line, the 2020 mandate. She said: Red line of the Czech Republic is in the form of a refusal of mandatory relocations and, at the same time, the mandate approved by the Government in 2020, and now, listen, it contained a requirement to establish alternative forms of solidarity. That means we have rejected quotas and we have anchored alternative forms of solidarity. One of them's financial, and the third one you ignore, even though I'm trying to say it here, but I'm probably always going to turn off the microphone for a while, or I don't know, is strengthening the technical background, building infrastructure and all that. Again, this form of solidarity has been regularly provided by the Czech Republic since 2015, in the form of the MEDEVAC project, in the form of an on-the-spot aid project, in quotes, let's say, loaning our police capacities to the exposed external borders of the European Union. And if you ask me questions that are supposed to arouse some emotion - will the Czech Republic then pay off when the migration crisis is over? Well, if I were the Minister of the Interior at the time, I would definitely propose point C, which means alternative forms of solidarity, capacity provision, personnel assistance, which the Czech Republic has already provided. And this is a form of solidarity that I would recommend that the Czech Republic choose. And on one more debate and questions, I would like to make a point here. You say that when temporary protection is over, people in the Czech Republic will automatically pass the foreign law, so they will not be asylum seekers. We don't know that at this point. Because temporary protection, for one thing, can be extended, I don't know whether it will happen or not. I will be sure to inform you about the European Commission's proposals on this subject. So far, there is no such proposal for the next period. Or it will come with a legal mechanism which will transfer those who decide to remain in the territory of a Member State into one of the possible regimes. And I say that once the potential is that it should be a regime for asylum seekers if they want to stay in the Czech Republic. At that point, the migration asylum pact could also apply in the benefits of the Czech Republic. But that's a thing that's not predictable. I sent the English text of the exception to the Czech Republic here to Mrs Vildumetzová. Hang on a second, I'm gonna try to make a quick, I'm sorry, very unprofessional translation so I don't speak English on a microphone in the Czech Chamber of Deputies. In connection with Article 7b of the proposal on regulation of the European Parliament and so on, and so on, here are some numbers. Asylum migration fund. The Czech Republic will be completely excluded from this joint account for the duration of the pressure arising from the Ukrainian migration crisis to the Czech Republic and will be excluded from the implementation of solidarity to other Member States for as long as this migration pressure continues to the Czech Republic, knowing that the Czech Republic is hosting the highest number of people fleeing the war from Ukraine per capita in the European Union. - That's what's gonna be in that official Council record in three weeks as a valid position approved in the final record. [[18.00 hours]] We still have the idea that everything is being put to the vote. There's a vote on the position, the Prime Minister's been teaching us that they don't even vote, we voted in a negative way. This means that those countries that were opposed have expressed themselves, those who were in favour have not raised their hand. The procedure is just different. Yes, so the states you mentioned here raised a sign with the name of the state and were considered to be against it. And if you ask me, what was Poland's position, and I quite frankly told you the morning position. The morning position in the discussion of Poland was, we will not pay a solidarity contribution as long as we have such a number of Ukrajinec in our territory. I do not know any other position of Poland, because in the final decision when Poland raised the sign with the name of Poland, the Polish representative did not comment on it and did not react in any way to the argument of the Czech Republic that an exception is being negotiated, which will apply both to Poland and to the Baltics. Let's not look for any secret behind this. The entry is just three weeks and will be made. I think I've explained the mandate. And to Mrs Maříková's question, if we are to pay, I hope I have also answered. So if, miraculously, all Ukrajinec, like a snap of a finger, disappear, and I point out, and this legal document would be approved - it would be approved. He's not approved, this is the Council's position. He's not approved. If it had been approved and there were no Ukrajinec, we would not have fallen under Article 7b, that we are affected by significant migratory pressure, so at that moment we choose from alternative possibilities of solidarity. Relocations are denied and not mandatory. Point (b) speaks of financial solidarity, point (c) speaks of what I have actually said here twice, and I hope that this has been made clear, that is, about providing the capacity of doctors, police officers, equipment, I will not be able to say what all the options are. And, of course, this will certainly be a struggle in the European Parliament, as if it had broken down in the Czech Parliament, so that the alternative forms of solidarity would somehow be defined in a taxatically way and that we could fit in with what we are already doing. And this is a legitimate Czech position in the European Parliament, perhaps held by all Members across the political spectrum in the European Parliament, to fight for the taxative definition that the Czech Republic has been doing for a long time. But the fact that it is in the resolution, hopefully none of you can deny it when you look into the approved material. And once again, this corresponds to the position of the Czech Republic from 2020 on finding alternative flexible forms of solidarity and rejecting mandatory relocation quotas. This isn't magic, this isn't cover-up. This is a clear statement of what the government's mandate was and what the government approved. We have not deviated by an inch, and in addition, within the mandate, we have brought an exception negotiated by the Czech Republic for all affected states so that we can refer to Article 7b in our situation of Ukraine's migration crisis, which says that specially affected states are not obliged to contribute to the solidarity fund. That's all. There's really nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, too. Your performance raised four factual points. First, Mr Zlínský, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u67	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have a question for you. You mentioned here that the Czech Republic is helping countries affected by illegal migration, especially the South European, in the amount, I feel you said CZK 210 million. If I count correctly, in the case of the relocation of migrants, where the circus per person is half a million, if we want to redeem ourselves, it's 400 migrants. And I would like to ask, how many would, because I am burdened with detail, how much would be taken into account by migrants, how much would the Czech Republic, if any, fall from the 30 000 announced migrants in that document? And I would also like to ask you once again what I have said here once, if there are any predictions of this development, if this type of regulation or this contract applies here, how it will reflect in those southern European countries, how many migrants will then move within the relocations to those North European countries, and how many migrants will be able to transport to a place of perhaps not origin, but where they came from. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Mašek's turn to prepare Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u69	Madam President, colleagues, the Minister is a great speaker. I really admire what he can justify here. He is now able to appeal to Babišův's government positions, but the positions and what we have declared here and always wanted to do are a little different: helping directly at the point of origin financially, at the point of origin of the migration problems, protecting the Schengen border consistently, holding migrants on the water even before they reach Europe, and so on. So this is something completely different, this is a deal where it's half a million for one migrant. It is basically an invitation to migrants to Europe because we can prepare the money for you or for you. And this aiding material, Minister, will, of course, also be quantified, and it will be something similar within half a million for the migrant, so it will be about big money. And by the way, I'm sure this government isn't up to it. Anyway, I'll get back to it. You said you answered the mandate, but you really didn't. I've got an eKLEP entry for the press and the public on the seventh night, and there's a point 8 just that, your information, it's not there. All the others, including the Mongolian minister, are there. Suddenly, after I reached out to Minister Dvořák here in the House on the eighth night, I asked if you were going there with a mandate, so after that in the record of the Czech Government's meeting, the number of the case 22251/23 appeared, so point 8 appeared that information had been discussed. And you, in Law, told the press that you were on the phone with Prime Minister Fiala from Luxembourg about it. So tell the truth. And I think that you went there without a mandate, or you didn't convince us that you had one, so you decided a very important thing that would be painful for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. It is now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's turn to prepare President Schillerová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u71	Minister, you haven't convinced me at all. But what is sadder is that you may not even have convinced some of your coalition partners, especially in the European Parliament, because I would like to quote here what was said a few minutes ago at the Radiožurnál, and then finally I will say from whom: I do not like that the proposal really introduces some of the rules that we had previously basically refused to introduce and we certainly did not want to introduce them. Like quotas, although today we call it compulsory solidarity. There's a proposal on the table that was on the table a few years ago. It's just that the terms have changed, but the content hasn't changed. Mandatory solidarity means that earlier countries could offer their capacity, today they must, or if they do not offer, do not take those steps, do not provide synergies, so they must pay. There are a lot of tight spots that even at the Internal Ministers' summit couldn't be resolved. These things will be open and they will raise the problem in individual states in the future. The proposal isn't as great as it's presented. For example, in the fact that the Minister has agreed to pay annually, not at one time 20,000 in the event of rejection of the asylum seeker. [[18.10 hours]] Come in. He says there's an exception if you read the material, you won't find it there. I say that the Minister exceeded his mandate by agreeing to quotas, because the Czech position, and this is how we had it in a government statement, we did not support the introduction of quotas. Today, his attitude, I mean Mr. Rakušan, and I don't understand what it contains. [[Time, Madame!]] Mr Zdechovský, MEP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for your time and now it is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's turn to prepare Minister Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u73	I certainly want to comment on the fact that I am very grateful to the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, for sending me the exception in English, but I, Minister, have had a very detailed translation made and I must say that what you have unfortunately said here is in no way based on the truth, for one simple reason. It says that the Czech Republic can be removed and not that it will be. That's a big difference. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] And it says that only if he has the highest number of refugees per head, okay? And then what surprised me was if you could answer that, that in the end, the sentence is crossed out, that means there's a scratch, so it won't apply - does it apply to Ukraine, or does it not apply? If you could answer that question. And then I was really surprised that you actually said that you didn't have that mandate. I don't understand if anybody's arguing with the 2020 mandate, I don't know anything about it anymore. I think this is the new Chamber of Deputies, the new Committee on European Affairs. I think this is such an important thing that we should have known about first, but that committee on European affairs should have known about it. I just don't get it at all. You must have known for a long time that you were going to Luxembourg to discuss this in some way. And I really can't agree with the Prime Minister saying that by approving it, security will be strengthened. After all, we will open up and we will be a floating island of migrants who will just roll in. At that point, we say: migrants, come to Europe. [[Time, Madame!]] That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u74	Thank you, too. It is now time for Minister Rakušan to prepare Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u75	[[Voice from the O.R.: The Minister has another translation.]] The Minister has no other translation. I don't need to get it translated. But here's the thing. Please nicely, the crossed-out sentence is taken by this graphic comma on my screen because I was doing a print screen. Well, I can prove to you, Madame, that in the original it's this dot, that in the iPhone is down there, and it's taken, the print screen, so it looks like the sentence is crossed out. There's no line crossed out, I'll show you in the original. You just wanted to print the screen quickly, I wanted to accommodate you quickly and my goodness turned into a bad one. If it says that it can be excluded, the sentence goes on: for the duration of the persistent pressure of Ukrainian migrants. Yes, but the verb "may" in this English translation is heading towards it can be, in this case as long as, for so long, it's just being excluded. In the Czech translation there will be no modal verb, let's talk about it from the point of view of linguistics, but it is excluded. And here it is not very nicely written "only," it is misinterpreted by the Member that it is only for the time when it is most crazy. It is precisely so: knowing that the Czech Republic is hosting the largest number of refugees per head. And so is the article to Poland, to the Baltic countries. This concerns all those who are affected by the Ukraine's migration crisis. I'm looking forward to the official translation. For the sake of the beggar. It will be done in three weeks' time within the minutes, but of course it is an exception under Article 7b. I see that I will need one more factual one to explain my mandate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Juchelka's turn to prepare Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. I just thank my colleague By your means, Jerman, for the quote by Mr Zdechovský. I would just like to pause here not only on what Minister Rakušan said, but also Prime Minister Fiala. I think they're both at war not only with Russia, but also with the truth, and I think they're also in war I'd say with reality. So I absolutely refuse to have the Prime Minister here threaten that if something like this is not accepted, we are at risk of not being able to move freely around Europe. That's a really scandalous statement. I believe that this haunting of our citizens here, that they will not be able to travel freely, is indeed beyond the brink, and I would say such a mild emotional blackmailer. I would really like to thank our police officers who protect the borders of the Schengen area in Hungary, and this service is very difficult indeed. I have spoken to several of them, and it is not easy there at all, and I do not think that the European Union is making it any easier for them either. I mean, in the Czech Republic, we have seen several initiatives taken here by refugees from Syria and so on, even close culturally to our Czech Republic, and it has always ended with one word. They migrated further west, to Germany, to France, there's never been anyone left. In Vyšné Lhotách, legends could tell about it, how they run away from us in the Czech Republic. I would also like to reject the Prime Minister's words that we may accept this, but maybe the European Parliament will stop it. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Maybe it won't be here at all. I mean, that's pure alibiism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u78	It is now Mrs Adámková's turn to prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of this debate, which I am trying to follow very closely, I am told by the number of our citizens. I can't say voters, I don't know who they're voting for, of course. I'd like to share their observations with you. Firstly, appealing to Babiš's engineer still seems childish to them, for everyone must be responsible for their actions, politicians twice. So it's pointless to say: you negotiated something there, and then we negotiated it that way. They find it a little alibiistic and maybe unnecessary. Then I must say that - I must commend Minister Rakušan, because he is one of those politicians who very clearly articulates, speaks loudly, speaks very well, but otherwise it has really appeared that we should wait for clear translations, that otherwise there may be the uncertainties that have happened here, so it is probably better to have them translated really properly than to argue here. I also think that it is not entirely at the level of saying 'I don't have to translate it', with all due respect to everyone, everyone has the right to have political science translated, especially legal English, any other language, not just English, because it is of course very special. Even in medicine, we have a number of expressions, where even people who teach English would look like an obstetrics if they spoke the way they speak. So it's useless to say it. And thirdly, that's my business. Please, nicely, I would beg if the information we receive was clear, clear and clear, and if you really were standing behind them and not really still referring to what the previous government has negotiated. That's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u80	I also thank you for the time being and now it is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's turn. Please. Minister Rakušan will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, Minister, I appreciate you giving me this document. But you presented him here, and you said here as part of your translation that the Czech Republic would be, okay? But it says it can be. And that's just a huge, big difference, what you said here. I mean, I understand that then your... I can see the way you're acting in this thing, hysterical and that somehow... I mean, that's why this meeting is here so you can somehow tell us those things. Because you're saying that you've negotiated an exception, but at this point, what you've presented to me - thank you very much for that - there's no way I'm convinced. [[18.20 hours]] And most importantly, what my colleagues have said here, we all wish the war in Ukraine would end as soon as possible. Then what happens? What's going to happen in the future? Yes? I really must say that what Jirka Mašek said here several times today is a threat to the internal security of our state. You are the Minister of the Interior, you went to defend the Czech Republic at the Council of Ministers and you agreed to this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u82	I also thank you for keeping time, and now it is the Minister's turn. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u83	Thank you very much. I really didn't start this linguistic discussion here, and it's a little genius for me, I'm a graduate Germanist, not an Englishman. I'd be more sure there. If I have left people here, and listen to me those of you who speak English better than I do, then the Czech translation will sound not "maybe" in the sense of "maybe," the Czech translation will sound "will be allowed to be excluded." An example of the verb "can" when it should be "can be excluded" would be in English the verb "may." Well, at this point, I guess those of you who speak English might be right, but it's a little funny, don't you think? I will provide here a text that has granted the Czech Republic an exception that will not apply during the time of the Ukrainian crisis, and the opposition, which claimed that the exception does not exist, is now attempting a linguistic analysis of whether it can or must in English. The exception simply means that the Czech Republic, Poland and the Baltics will not apply while the Ukrainian migration crisis is being hit. Let's wait for the official translation. By your means, Mrs Adámková, I agree with you completely, but this is perhaps not the substance of our discussion here. I don't really understand this debate, and I'm a little sorry we got caught up in it. As far as the mandate is concerned, the framework position and according to Mr Benešík's information do not change unless the Government decides otherwise. And we didn't decide otherwise. We have remained with the 2020 framework position and we have fully fulfilled it, and we have even fulfilled it with the exception that was not in the mandate. And did I consult with Prime Minister Fiala? Logically, he's my prime minister! And I called him three times from the Council to see if he agreed to the negotiated exception, and he was happy to agree with it. [[Time, Minister!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u84	Thank you. It is now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's turn to prepare - all factual remarks - Mr Fridrich. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u85	Mr. Secretary, the problem is that the exception is temporary, and there's a big question mark to come next. And there's the buried dog! But I still don't understand the logic when you know how delicate the issue of migration is for the opposition, that since you've already given information to the government, at least according to the record, you haven't bothered to agree that position again, so that you have a full mandate. I just don't understand. I can only think of one answer, and that is that you were unable to agree on that government, and now you are making excuses for the framework position of the former government. Don't be mad at me, it's totally unacceptable to me, and you haven't convinced me! I think you've exceeded your mandate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u86	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, it is Mr Fridrich's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u87	I would also like, Minister, to return to the dispute about the translation. In the event of any dispute between the English and Czech versions, there must be a clause in the contract that, in case of doubt, either the English or the Czech version applies to any dispute. So the argument about what will be in the Czech translation is completely irrelevant to any judicial dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. It is now Mrs Schillerová's turn to prepare Mr Bžoch. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, she has already quoted this, my colleague, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, but your MEP, I think, five coalitions, Mr ZdenchovskZdechovský today, June 14th - is today June 14th? - 2023 at 20 minutes Radiozurnal, and I'll be talking about you when the final quote is made, so I'll quote from the literal transcript. He claims there's an exception. He means you. If you read the material, there's no exception. And it is not an exception for the Czech Republic, but it is for all countries of Central and Eastern Europe. And now the greatest pearl comes from the words of Mr Zdechovský for KDU-ČSL. I say, I quote, that he overstepped his mandate by agreeing to quotas because the Czech position, and that's how we had it in the government statement, we didn't support the introduction of quotas. Today, his attitude and what he is defending - in parentheses is Rakušan, i.e. I don't understand you. This was said by the MEP for KDU-ČSL today in 20 minutes of Radiožurnál.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. It is now Mr Bžoch's turn to prepare Mr Letocha. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I'm not going to comment entirely on everything that's been said here, I'm just going to comment on one thing. I understand that there are a lot of good things in the thousands and in the package that we had on the committee that our previous government agreed to, whether it's return policy, speedy border management, that's all right. The problem is, we still don't have a list of safe countries. That makes it very difficult for us to return those migrants. If we don't have a place to return them, they're gonna stay here anyway. That is why those countries that are already damaged by the migration today, whether they are Sweden, Germany, France, and now Prime Minister Rutte is getting a big brush in Holland for not taking a different approach to migration, so of course it will suit them. I have a problem with this mechanism that no redistribution, whatever we call it, whatever we call it quotas, whatever we call it solidarity redistribution, whatever we call it, it's never gonna work. We're in Schengen. It's never gonna work. If we hire anybody here and start an asylum procedure, we're letting them on the air anyway. At that point, they're gonna disappear and they're gonna be somewhere else, and we're gonna chase them all over Europe. The redistribution mechanism as a whole will never work. It's nonsense from the start. It was nonsense after 2015. That's the problem, and we can call it whatever we want. The package as a whole wouldn't have been so bad if there hadn't been some kind of mandatory solidarity. The redistribution mechanism will never work and we can call it what we want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. It is now Mr Letocha's turn to prepare Minister Rakušan. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor. I'm logged in to a classic debate, but it's not moving, so I took the liberty of signing up with a factual remark. I originally wanted to respond to some previous speakers, but that would really be for longer. And I'm going to try to find some consensus that we could have in this as a opposition and a coalition. I believe that what we agree on here is that migration is a major problem for Europe. The Czech Republic is a member of the European Union and as a valid member we can, and we are involved in the resolution of the migration crisis. And I also hope that we agree with the opposition that there is a need for a solution. Obviously, we are not going to agree here today whether or not you have managed to negotiate with Minister Rakušan in the European Union, whether or not you were behind it recently, but I hope we agree that we are rejecting mandatory relocation quotas. In the past, too, the YES movement, through the statements made by Mr Babiš, who was mentioned here by the Minister of the Interior, proposed to participate financially in the solution to migration. And that's where the deal that's not definite is going. In addition, the Minister of Interior managed to negotiate an exception for the Czech Republic, where we will not have to pay any solidarity contributions by the end of the temporary protection institute, and we may then draw some contributions from this solidarity contribution as well. And if you look away for a moment from the very birthing of your central topic of European elections, you must acknowledge that this agreement is advantageous for the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u94	Thank you, too. Now it is time for Minister Rakušan to prepare Mr Juchelka. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u95	I find it quite humorous that the opposition is no longer coming up with its own arguments here, and in the last three speeches, it uses a quote from another party's MEP. But so be it. I will be answering in the same and same way as I have been answering you all along, and that is that the mandate, which is here from 2020, has been fully respected. If a colleague, Zdechovský, and any of you, wonders that there is no exception in the text as such, yes, the exception was implemented at the end of the agenda following the approval of the text itself and appears in the minutes, which will be officially drawn up in about three weeks. I generally refer you to Article 7b, which says which states are excluded from the need to participate in the solidarity mechanism, and on this basis this exception will be processed in a textual manner. And a note that the original text will apply. Of course, but even the original text guarantees that for those who really look into its depth, the Czech Republic will not pay a solidarity contribution at this time. I mean, it's a really funny linguistic discussion we're having here. But the fact of the exception, its essence presented here, I don't know why it's being questioned. I don't think you're happy for her. You should be pleased with the exception, that we will not be paying here for the duration of the migration crisis. To my colleague Jermanová, it's temporary. Yes, if this is an exception to the fact that we will be affected by Ukrainian migration, we all hope that it will be temporary, because we hope that we will not be permanently affected by the Ukrainian migration crisis. I am pleased that, at least, as an expert on European policy, Mr Bžoch acknowledged that the package is largely in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Now another point of fact is made by President Cogan, Mr Bžoch will be prepared. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a procedural proposal. Before this meeting, we agreed on some kind of format, some time. That time has been over for more than 30 minutes. I think we have come very close to the request that we have approved today's discussion, and I would like to make this motion to suspend today's negotiations. Just like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u98	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Please, when do you stop?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u99	I said just like that. That means a motion to interrupt. That means, without a deadline, a clean motion for interruption.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u100	Like interrupt indefinitely? [[Yes.]] Yes. With Mrs Schillerová's counterproposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u101	Well, President Cogan, through Madam Vice-President, that was not exactly the agreement. There was a deal that plus minus around 6:00, that's why you opened it for us. It's 6:33 p.m. I admit it, but I was very clear about this, too, on the grémium that we would like to read the resolution. If we interrupt, there will be no resolution. So, okay, let's end this, I get it. I think it's a very delicate subject. It will eventually come back to you in that public space, because people are very interested. You guys are probably living in some other bubble, some little Prague bubble, but people are very interested. So let's close this, let's read the resolution, and we'll just look for more forms to raise this issue. I accept the agreement, I respect it, but I don't agree with the interruption because it goes beyond the agreement. I would like a vote on the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u102	So the counterproposal is to vote...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u103	The counterproposal is that we simply agree to end the debate, even if there are eight entries. I understand there was a deal, and I won't question it, but next time I'd hardly make one. But let's just end this by voting on a resolution that either passes or fails. That's my suggestion. That's how we talked about it. I understand the drag in half an hour, but I've been saying on that grémium that maybe I won't be taking anyone away from the counter. Finally, you saw that the debate simply took place primarily at the level of the priority rights. But that's just the way it is, because with us, the biggest insight into this problem is logically the former Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u104	So, Madam President, your counterproposal is the end of the debate? I must have a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u105	I understand that, but I don't think we're gonna vote to end the debate, do we? Is there a way to vote, a vote? There's no vote. So let's make a deal, and let's just cut it for five minutes and make a deal. I am primarily concerned, and that is what we were going to do, so that we can vote on the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u106	Okay, thank you. Another with the counterproposal of Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u107	Well, I have to say, for the SPD, we kept the deal here. In fact, I myself spoke with the priority right before the debate was opened. I have also been enrolled in the debate, and I have withdrawn the application to keep the agreement. So I really do this, there are only 20 opposition MPs here for the SPD, but I don't see this as a fair proposition. We're just two opposition parties here, speaking purely for the SPD. I, too, would like to propose - initially, I would like to propose a one-minute interruption, in order to comply with the procedure, that I must put forward a counter-proposal - in order to really continue and vote on resolutions. But if we interrupt for five minutes to work out what's going on, then I'm suggesting five minutes. We really insist on voting on our motion for a resolution under the SPD, because we are saying here in principle in the II that we are calling on the government to join Poland and Hungary's positions and reject the principles of direction in the EU institutions, rejecting the reform of the EU's migration policy. The vote here is crucial for us that the positions of individual political parties, who reject it and who do not, are clearly shown. So this resolution really needs to be voted out, and I am in favour of putting it off for five minutes so that we can all agree, because here I see that there is an agreement going on again about us without us, and we would not like that very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. I'm picking up a counterproposal for five minutes. I don't see anyone else with a counterproposal. This means that we have two proposals for five minutes from President Schillerová and President Okamura. [[Mr Cogan is reporting for the floor.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u109	Basically, we'll make a proposal in agreement with all club presidents for five minutes. So we don't have to vote, but now we're gonna make a deal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u110	So, on the basis of the agreement of all the presidents of the MPs, I'm declaring a five-minute break. We'll continue in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u111	[[Before the end of the break, the President responds to the warning from the O.R. that the board is lit up by the wrong time of the break.]] There's a mistake on the board, please, a break only until 18.42. So, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss this. I ask if anyone is reporting to the general debate? I see no one else, so I am ending the general debate and we will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, to which I have Mr Letocha. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, I have a motion for a resolution on which all parties to the government coalition have agreed. The motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan on the form of a reform of the common migration policy of the European Union, which is in line with the long-term position of the Czech Republic, is based on financial solidarity between the states of the European Union and does not include mandatory relocation quotas." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u113	Thank you, too. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mrs Okamura have also applied from the post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. As I announced in the debate, I will read in a detailed debate the motion for a resolution for the YES movement, which has called this extraordinary meeting, and I would very much like all Members to listen to the motion for a resolution which will then be voted on. "The Chamber of Deputies I does not agree with the approval of the migration reform of compulsory solidarity for the reception of illegal migrants, which was approved and supported by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan on the Council of Ministers in Luxembourg on 8 June, which runs counter to the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic. II. The Chamber of Deputies invites Prime Minister Petr Fiala to exchange immediately for the position of Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic. III. The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to take the initiative to convene the European Council on this migration reform, where the clear negative position of the Czech Republic will be heard." I would ask for each item to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u115	Thank you, too. And another one for the detailed debate is Mr Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, so the SPD resolution: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies I notes that illegal migration is a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term; II. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to join the positions of Poland and Hungary and to reject in the EU institutions the principles of direction towards the proposal for a regulation laying down common procedures for international protection." And I suggest that each vote be voted on separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u117	I also thank you, and I would like to ask that you all pass on the motions for resolutions to the rapporteur. And in the meantime, I'm gonna load up the apologies. Mr Dufek Aleš apologizes from 18.30 for working reasons, Mr Kohajda Michael from 16-50 for working reasons, Mr Nacher Patrik from 18.30 for family reasons, Mr Síla Jan from 17.00 for work reasons, Mr Teleky Róbert from 18.30 for work reasons, Mr Výborný Marek from 14.30 to 17.45 for work reasons and Mr Zborovský Miroslav from 15.20 to 17.15 for personal reasons. Mrs Šafránková, who is already present, cancelled her apology. Mr Dufek Aleš also cancels his apology. I will now ask the Prime Minister and the Member if they can move their discussions into the lobby so that the rapporteur can speak. [[♪ He was the]] Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u118	So, Madam Vice-President, I will vote on these proposals as they have been said here at the moment. So the first proposal was from a five-wheeler, Mr Letocha, the second proposal from the YES movement, and the third proposal from the SPD, when it was made clear that they wanted to vote separately on each point. So I will always read what we are going to vote on, and I will ask you to vote on the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u119	Yes, please, I've already begun, so let's get started. And unsubscribe, yes, I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to log in with your ID cards. And I will ask the rapporteur to wait a little while before we have a steady count. And it looks good, so let's get started.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u120	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So the first motion for a resolution was submitted by Mr Letocha for a five-coalist, and this motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan on the form of a reform of the common migration policy of the European Union, which is in line with the long-term position of the Czech Republic, is based on financial solidarity between the countries of the European Union and does not include mandatory relocation quotas." Please put this resolution to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number three, 146 Members of Parliament signed in for 82, versus 63. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u122	Thank you. We will now vote on the resolution tabled by the ANO Group of Deputies. First resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the approval of the migration reform of compulsory solidarity for the reception of illegal migrants, approved and supported by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan on the Council of Ministers on 8 June in Luxembourg, which runs counter to the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 146 Members of Parliament signed in for 63, versus 78. The motion was not accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u124	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Another motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to exchange immediately for the position of Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 146 Members of Parliament signed in for 63, versus 81. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u126	And the last resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to take the initiative to convene the European Council on this migration reform, where the clear negative position of the Czech Republic will be expressed.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 147 Members and Members signed in for 61, versus 82. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u128	And now the resolution tabled by the SPD MP...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u129	I'd like a moment of your patience under the vote check. Please, Madam Vice-President, vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u130	I voted in favour of voting number three, and I'm against high school. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. prosit, yes, to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u132	I would like to call into question the vote. I'm late for high school. I voted yes. I hereby question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u133	Yes. So now we're going to vote... One more comment on the vote? [[Mr. Spicak was on his way to the microphone, but he canceled his application.]] Perhaps there is no need, because we will now decide on the objection to the vote, given that it has fallen. So I'm opening the vote on the objection to the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 147 Members and Members signed in for 147. Objection received. We shall repeat the vote on the motion for a resolution. But I ask the rapporteur to clarify what vote this was relating to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u134	Madam Vice-President, I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to take the initiative of calling the European Council on this migration reform, where the clear negative position of the Czech Republic will be expressed.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 147 Members and Members signed in for 63, versus 82. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u136	We therefore come to the motion for a resolution from the SPD, where it was also said that they wanted to vote on each individual. So, the first motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that illegal migration is a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 147 Members and Members signed in for 63, versus 76. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u138	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Second motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to join the positions of Poland and Hungary and reject the principles of direction in the institutions of the European Union towards a proposal for a regulation laying down common procedures for international protection."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u139	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 147 Members and Members signed in for 63, versus 77. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u140	Madam Vice-President, these were all the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. And then we ran out of... With Mrs Schillerová's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u142	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Just to say goodbye. Thank you for allowing the vote on the proposed resolutions. At least we know who's who and where he's standing, which in no way ends the subject for us, for the YES movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u143	Thank you, and now with priority rights, President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u144	So I would just like to remind you that a resolution by the SPD has been voted, where the Chamber of Deputies should say that illegal migration is a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term. By voting against this resolution by all Members of the Government of the Five Coalition, I will just say what the Government Members voted for. Government Members therefore voted in favour of the fact that illegal migration does not pose a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term. Well, that's an incredible vote. This needs to be repeated and recalled that the position of ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN and TOP 09 is that illegal migration does not pose a major threat to the security situation in the Czech Republic in the long term! [[with emphasis on:]] And it really needs to be stressed that everyone knows what the Fialův coalition's position is. And for us, this is an unacceptable attitude!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-14-ps2021-068-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. We discussed the 68th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I hereby conclude. And I would remind you that we will meet here on Thursday, June 15, at 9:00 p.m., when we will continue the interrupted 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice evening.
