ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 103 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday 3 July 2023. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a suggestion? [[Noise in the courtroom.]] I don't see anyone reporting with another proposal for a verifier. I therefore initiate the vote. I ask, who is there to identify these two verifiers? Who's against it? In vote number 1 registered 152 present, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated Members of Stanislav Berkovec and Hayat Okamura as verifiers of the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence to the hearing: Bělica Josef for the whole day for personal reasons, Carbol Jiří for the whole day for personal reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole day for health reasons, Hájek Jiří within 12 hours for working reasons, Šimon Šimon for the whole day for personal reasons, Kasal David within 12 hours for personal reasons, kolář Ondřej for the whole day for health reasons, Metnar Lubomír until 13 hours for health reasons, Olšáková Eliška for the whole working reasons, Potůčková Lucie for the whole day for reasons of foreign travel, Pražák David within 12 hours for health reasons, Turček Karel for the whole day for reasons of foreign travel, Válková Helena for the whole day for health reasons. The ministers apologize: Bek Mikuláš - the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Blažek Pavel up to 13 hours for work reasons, Černochová Jana from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Dvořák Martin up to 11 hours and from 12.30 for work reasons, Hladík Petr from the whole working day for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Síkela Jozef from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Šalomoun Michal from 13 to 17 o'clock for working reasons and Válek Vlastimil until 11 o'clock for work reasons. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Before we proceed to the 71st meeting, I have eight prior rights here. President Benda is the first to sign in, followed by Vice-President Havlíček. And I ask you, my colleagues, to keep you quiet so that we can hear our colleagues' speeches. Once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already announced at the meeting of the political grémia, on behalf of the coalition clubs, I propose, because I assume that the debate, even if there are only four points, will be a great deal of interest in these points from the opposition in particular, so I suggest that we now vote that we act after 19th, 21st and 24th hours, including the vote on the laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal, which is why I will call on my colleagues and colleagues. We will vote directly on this proposal. I repeat that President Benda has suggested that we vote that we act after 19th, 21st and 24th hours, including the vote on the laws. The number of entries is already settled, so I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? In the vote number 2 of today's meeting 163 are registered, for 86, against 76. The motion was accepted. So I say we act after nineteen, twenty-one, and twenty-four hours. Mr Havlíček, Vice-President, is now registered with priority rights, followed by President Tomio Okamura. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, please keep your voices down or move your conversations to the lobby. I'm gonna ask the Vice-President to wait a little longer, and I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down one more time. [[Noise persists.]] I'm gonna ask all my colleagues and colleagues once again to keep their conversations quiet. It's true for the whole O.R. This also applies to colleagues and colleagues from the House's leadership as well as to ministers. Minister... [[Minister Bartoš says hello to the incoming Minister Austrian.]] So once again, colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down, and we can question the Vice-President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, we have an extremely difficult debate in the coming hours and days. We will discuss two key packages, and I will, of course, speak to them in a much larger detail. Nevertheless, I have exercised my right of priority to sum up the current situation and to convey our position. We need to start with the current situation in which we find ourselves, because that is what both packages depend on. It is a fact, and there is no point in pretending that the Czech Republic is in a bad economic situation, and despite the promises of this government, it is not improving. Economic policy in this cabinet is nothing more than marketing economics. I have quite clear evidence for this claim that I would like to introduce you to. It is not possible to start with anything other than inflation. We have had the third highest inflation for several months throughout the European Union, and, of course, inflation is one of the fundamental reasons why we are here today, why we are preparing the so-called consolidation - we call it the tax - package and, of course, why the pension measures are taking place. If inflation had not been like this, I believe that these pension changes would not have occurred. We also need to figure out where the causes of this inflation are, because that is what this government has not captured. And the fact that this government is not the direct culprit of this inflation, just as our government was not the direct culprit of inflation, the government of Babišův. The fact that you blamed us was your big mistake. Whether targeted or unconscious, you did not discern the situation and, as a result, the inflation started to go on. I merely recall what the European Central Bank said: in the 11th month of 2021, when it was already clear that inflation was beginning to grow extremely, she said that the cause of inflation throughout Europe was an upset supply with demand for the time of covid, for which we naturally borne the blame of the then government, high energy growth, which, of course, was also due to Russia's speculation and so on, and beware, then still relatively high or rather other comparative base with regard to last year. And then it started going on. [[10.10 hours]] At this time, so-called demand inflation made sense of certain measures within the meaning of national banks, but this gradually began to tilt into the position of supply inflation, which is where this cabinet slept. You didn't catch the right moment. You forgot that you were in control, and you were still in marketing economics, when you were merely communicating: this is Babišův's price, everything is solved by the central bank, she's responsible, she's gonna raise interest. You applauded it and underestimated - let's face it - fiscal instruments, whether budgetary in nature or regulatory in nature, which we did at the end of 2021, when we pulled the handbrake and we gave VAT on energy for zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u5	I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, but the noise in the room is really unbearable. So I will ask my colleagues to move their conversations into the lobby if they want to deal with anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. And what is fundamental is that you have incredibly underestimated energy measures, especially from a time point of view, but in fact, even then from a stark point of view. I'll get to that. So, in a time of energy crisis, a growing energy crisis, you failed to take key measures, as a result of which, in 2022, we had the highest increase in energy prices throughout the European Union. Yes, you questioned it through various statistical offices and so on, but when we look at the current data from those who produce these analyses, and these are the institutions that were created by central European regulators, so according to the so-called HEPI coefficient, Household Energy Price Index, we were in the first six months, well listen, in the first six months they had five times the highest price of electricity from across the European Union through purchasing power and only once we were in second place. All I'm saying is that all of these are fruits of the year 2022, when they were caught late and underprivileged, and I am - not only did I say this a hundred times, this was also said by one who is not in our fan club, and this is the former Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, who clearly said that it was too late, and be careful that it was too high, and that it had a negative effect on inflation. Again, we have to stop at that inflation for a while. Minister Síkela laughed at us all year 2022 until the intervention in August 2022, when you understood that the situation was miserable. The Prime Minister took away his agenda in a rather humiliating way, and the new team at the Office of the Government has finally started to create something. However, as I said before, the time has passed. We can remember here, as I urged here, that we cancel the payments for renewable resources in time, as we urged us to put a stop to producers. No, you let them make extreme money, you started taxing them complicatedly, you still didn't collect the money, and, of course, all this was an upside-down character. Among other things, while we're on the show, do you know how it is in Slovakia? In Slovakia, they extended the ceiling to the price of electricity at the level of less than CZK 1,500 per megawatt hour, I am talking about the price of power energy, up to 2027. They then slightly increase it to CZK 1,700. With us, the ceiling is still set at CZK 5,000 per megawatt hour, so let us not be surprised that we have had and have extremely high energy prices, which, of course, have a big impact on inflation, and that is what other indicators are derived from - the highest decline in real wages in OECD countries and the poor prospects are also with a gross domestic product. We and Spain have so far a gross domestic product in a worse position than it was at the time of the forebears. And in all of this, our budget began to collapse, once again as a result of marketing economics in the submission of the Minister of Finance. The first signals were already in 2022, but that's where you set us up. Your aim was to show, in particular, that you can save what you promised before the elections, and instead of a conservative view of the situation, you drew up an optimistic scenario, although already in January, February, March, when you put it together, the situation was not simple, at least from the point of view of energy, but also the war began. Let us remember how it was witchcrafted here at the time with resources, or with payments for renewable energy sources, or with resources from the Ministry of Transport, payment of Czech Post compulsory and so on. We warned about it and so on. You haven't created any reserves. Yes, I admit, then the war came, you had to deal with other things, and that logically cost a whole lot of money, but actually, that's what we were doing at the time of the covid. And what did you do? You laughed at us at the time of the covid. You said you solved it. Finally, the results speak for themselves. The year 2022 fell by a deficit of 360 billion, among other things, one that we are - unaware of war, of course, of the energy crisis, but we did it again at the time of the covid, so there was another problem, so we also estimated. What's worse is that you haven't learned until 2023, and I'm about to get to the consolidation package in 2024, because it's obviously connected with that. Exactly the same mistakes. But you can't pin this on someone like 2022 anymore. This is all your work and your responsibility. Instead of viewing it conservatively, especially income, to plan them wisely, you looked optimistic again. You completely failed to manage the estimate of gross domestic product growth and the corresponding revenue, so in the first five months you were already one month late in income and it is no longer catch-upable, it simply cannot be caught up. Besides, despite our warning, you started putting things in the budget that were either a scam or a clear lie or a trick. It doesn't really matter what we call it, but in any case, you planted things that you were warned about by the experts that we warned you about, which you had to know would happen. There's no way you're going to put 50 billion crowns in there as resources that you're going to download from the Modernization Fund when you've all been warned before that it's not possible. If it were a billion please, I would understand it, you risk something, maybe 5 billion in this extraordinary time, but putting 50 billion crowns there is either total incompetence, or you did it on purpose. But it doesn't matter how you did it, but the point is that you're missing the money today, and you know it very well. I don't understand why you didn't put CZK 15 billion in there, at least CZK 15 billion in valorisation, when in January 2023 the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs claimed that he would valorize according to the current scheme. Then, of course, you changed everything in a few days, but still there will be 15 billion crowns in the end, which of course you will miss. Why didn't you? Why didn't you put the money in? Or did it seem to you that it was under discernment? So that's 50 billion, 15 and we can move on. Remember when we were arguing about the resources of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. You bragged on the one hand that you will invest more in the development of transport. In the finals, you put in less than we did, and the rest is borrowed by the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Yes, now the loan of CZK 24 billion has been approved. So that's your policy. On the one hand, you take it away, on the other hand, at an interest rate of more than 4 percent. And I'm saying this because you're becoming untrustworthy. So let's not be surprised that no one believes - of the literate people - that you will succeed in the consolidation that represents 2024, 2025 and so on. It's always the same. It won't work the way you planned it. It can't even work because you can't handle it. The whole consolidation package, as you call it -- we call it a tax package, and I'll explain why -- it's all built on water, just like in 2022, 2023. Furthermore, it must be said, and I do not understand that it leaves you calm as turtles, what is the structure of gross domestic product, because that will depend on future income. What's with the gross domestic product today? It is dragged by the expenditure of the state in terms of consumption, investment by the state, even if it is necessary for a loan, but thank God at least for that, not household consumption, logically, because it saves those, not household investment - who would now borrow at those crazy interest rates that are sometimes over 7 percent? - and not corporate investment. Intuitively, even a person less literate must see that it is not a healthy structure. Yes, something is catching up with the export and import balance, but that is largely due to the fact that demand for foreign goods is falling because people don't have that much money. That means, that's not good news at all, because even with regard to the future, I don't know what we're going to build on future incomes. Logically again on GDP and let's see what you did in 2023. It's gotten really hot. And it's because gross domestic product doesn't grow that much that logically you don't have that revenue. I'm asking you, what are you gonna get them out of in the next few years if they're not ready for it today? [[10.20 hours]] Moreover, let us be aware that we are very closely tied to Germany's economy - export, import, investment and so on, we all know this. We're doing a third of the goods and we're buying a third. Well, Germany is in a difficult situation, at the edge of the recession. This means that even there we cannot expect any improvement over the next few months. So let's figure out why, in our opinion, the government solution you're putting in those packages isn't gonna work, because if you don't understand the nature of the problem and you don't understand the strategic solution, you're not gonna do the operational solution right, the immediate solution. I'm sorry, it's because there are no people in the government who can find the solution. Unfortunately, I have to say that most of the time in that government, he doesn't really understand. You have a single economist there, and he is a banker on the run today, a Minister of Industry who, instead of addressing economic policy, instead of presenting an economic vision, tells the nation that he accepts another management challenge after one and a half years of operation and is already looking forward to Brussels. As for five-calice leaders, no economist, plus every dog, different village, in a different direction. Plus, there are five of you, which, of course, is a problem you all know about. You rely on counselors, but they don't care about solving their own problem, but especially about their visibility. Besides, they have no responsibility. The very slightest thing was at that crazy press conference that's really gonna go down in history. Where our, actually, not always a successful covid press conference are going about it. But unlike you, we had hours, sometimes even tens of minutes to decide where we had no idea what was going to happen next day, next week. You guys had a few months to prepare what you did there. To be honest, I felt rather sorry for the Ministers of Finance and Labour and Social Affairs, because instead of the Prime Minister speaking after him, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and then the Minister of Finance, he recapitulated it and clearly stated, in a matter of fact, where there is a problem, what will be dealt with and where it will be cut, so there were a number of people who didn't really understand it at all. And the exhibition of some kind of advisor, it seemed to me like somewhere at a bachelor or a master's exam at a university of economics or some kind of economic faculty where they chased each other in powerpoint presentations. It's a disaster! You may say it's a detail, but in my opinion, the press conference was a turning point, a turning point in the fact that both your supporters and your club really broke down over you, even if not everyone publicly, because most of them understood that you wouldn't solve the crisis. You're the reboot you don't have to doubt, you're not gonna make. Because, among other things, at that press conference, when at least something was discussed there, it was still what the government would do, what the government would do. But no state or government will make an economic reboot, which will always do only the private sector, which means companies, entrepreneurs, businessmen and their executive employees. The role of the state is to prepare the conditions for them to do so. You guys did it the other way around. So we don't agree completely fundamentalally. Not in the details - we certainly agree on some of the things in this package - but we fundamentally disagree on neither the causes nor the solution to the problem, because you are trying to deal with it at state level, the government. No government will solve this, and not yours, and I've been trying to explain to you why your government won't solve it. The road is not in raising taxes, as you think, or in the game of saving à la "paper can take it all," but then, Mommy, we may not be here anymore. If we're gonna reboot, it's about involving industry, involving businesses, involving businessmen, involving employees, making a turn. But be careful, we have to motivate them to do that. Why don't we learn? We've been dealing with maybe a bigger problem in the covid age, or I'm sure it's a bigger problem. If you recall, this was a critical time sometime in February or March 2021, when the covid numbers were crazy throughout Europe. Nobody knew what to do with it, it was going so far up. We were involved, you didn't advise us twice, but I don't blame you. He didn't know it at the time. We did a risky thing back then. We didn't shut down industry, we didn't shut down businesses, even though we were under gigantic pressure at the time - I'm not saying opposition, but especially trade unions and our coalition partner at the time, and we did that by putting it in the hands of businesses, businessmen and basically employees. We have made the largest test center in Europe de facto. Do you remember that? Within a few days, it began to test de facto in every company. We motivated the entrepreneurs, we tried to explain it, we tried to provide the rapid tests, we bought or helped bring them here, and so on. We just created some conditions for it. Yes, I admit it was a risk, but it paid off. Do you know why it paid off? Because those businessmen always do better than the state, because they're better managers, they know better. The state can't do it across the board, it won't, but if I trust those companies and their employees, I'll create conditions for it, so I can do it. I'm saying it was a major turnaround back then, and I stand by it. Thanks to entrepreneurs, to employees, to their responsibilities, and to the fact that the state created certain conditions, but did not play the main, key role there, it was not the one who would do the whole thing, it turned around and it became manageable. Why don't we learn? Why aren't we doing this in the context of dealing with economic problems through the private sector? I'm also looking at the five-wheelers. You're here from Odéeska, you've always been business oriented. Why don't you bet on it? Why are you betting on the state? Why are you betting on raising taxes? Does that seem normal to you? It's not gonna help, it's raising taxes. They're gonna optimize it eventually anyway. And you all know that, you're still smiling at me here, nodding at least internally, but I don't know why you don't say it on the microphone! [[He's raising his voice.]] I got angry. Well, I'm asking. Have we in any way motivated at least a little bit of the business sector at the moment? Businesses are in doubt. Logically, why are they in doubt? Because you trained them last year through power. While everything in Europe at least started to do something about energy prices, somehow it started to regulate, here you were still playing through Minister Síkela on a European genius solution. Well, as it turned out, we know. We have the highest energy prices. You're erratic with regard to taxes. We want us to motivate companies, but they want one thing, and that's a predictable environment. You all need to know that. How predictable are they if they don't know if they're gonna raise their taxes? Maybe this isn't even about the 2% corporate tax, so I guess they'll survive. If they knew there were other things to be relied on in the state, they might be able to do it. But the result will be that they will eventually optimize the 2 per cent just because they have no idea what's going to happen. They are poisoned by constant changes, and logically they do one thing - they hinder investment and hinder spending on innovation, research. It's gonna blow up in our faces, it's gonna blow up in our faces! That means it's exactly the opposite of what we want. Then how do we want our gross domestic product to grow if we don't invest companies? We're gonna figure that out that it can't work. Businessmen - do you understand what you did by breaking a promise to businessmen? I mean, you guys said you'd make better terms for businessmen than we had. But we didn't let them fall, 500,000 self-employed people received covid support and survived through the support. Maybe we could have given even more, that's all we had. Then you screamed we should have given less, but that's politics. But the point is, we didn't let the businessmen down. You said you wouldn't touch their taxes, and Minister Stanjura claimed in April of this year that he didn't know of any attempt to increase fees for businessmen. Well, a few weeks later, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs came along and made an uncompromising effort to increase the fees for businessmen. Have you seen the PAQ Research survey, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs? He's making it very clear. This increase will mostly affect the smallest tradesmen. Yeah, so you tossed the tiniest businessmen overboard. Then we want them to reboot the economy? They'll laugh at you. They're going to go into the gray zone anyway, they're going to optimize it the way you did with the famous EET in the sense that you canceled it. The result is that we are a joke to the whole of Europe, maybe to the whole world, because we stop taking cards. And we're gonna motivate the employees by raising their sick leave by taking out most of their benefits? You can't even explain it to them. Well, no wonder we're not gonna reboot here. I hope I've explained the reasons clearly. The second step to make that reboot is not to declare it, but to create a thin state. You know how to talk about it, but what do you do for it? To create a slim state, you must have the courage - at least here I take your rhetoric - to cut. You don't even have the guts, because if you cut the expenses somewhere, you're gonna let those directors do what? To take credit for it. So you cut into the money at the Ministry of Transport, yes, the result is that the Ministry of Transport will have to take CZK 24 billion from the European Investment Bank to complete what it has - which I understand completely - for which it will not only pay interest, but, of course, it will pay back. This is how you want to continue schooling and so on. [[10.30 hours]] And b) to create a slim state, esteemed five-calice colleagues, so the government should also set an example, and not be a joke. I know you're going to say that more ministries or more ministers you have aren't such a big expense. In the context of the 300, 350 billion crowns, of course not. But it's about the symbolism. You want someone to save money, but at the same time you're adding numbers to ministers! At the same time, you are adding numbers of political representatives and at the same time you are not willing to freeze wages, politicians' salaries. Since last January, Mr Babiš has proposed this here, and only after a year and a half, after enormous pressure from society, you have begun to take certain measures, but it is still not freezing the salaries of politicians. If we hadn't pushed it, nothing would have happened. And here's the reason, here's the poodle core, which is why people don't believe you, which is why they won't do it, which is why you're not going to consolidate as you imagine. And you can say, okay, so if you're so smart, tell me how you would do it. How would you do that? We have a shadow government, not only are we discussing it, we're putting it on paper, we're presenting it, but you don't want to hear it. And if we give you dozens and dozens of suggestions, you choose the one, two that you don't think would go well - and I'm not saying that they're all going well - and you're filming it on them. You will do nothing and only criticize what we present. But how would we prevent it, or what would we do in this situation? I must say objectively that despite the poor management of this government, the situation in macroeconomic figures is still not critical. In other words, it is not true that the Czech Republic is before bankruptcy, and it is due, among other things, to very good economic development from 2014 until the covid. We are still better off than most countries in the European Union. And it is true, and let us say objectively that the covid, the energy crisis and the war have aggravated the management of virtually all countries, that is the fact. When we look at the general government deficit, 3.6% in the euro area and 3.6 percent in the Czech Republic for 2022. But watch out for one thing, you've always laughed at us, as we've been in debt - I'm passing that we've reduced debt from 2014 to 2019 from 43 percent to 29 percent and we haven't increased debt. But of course, we had to support the economy at the time of the covid, we had to support companies, employment and so on, so we put the money in the economy, but we also documented what they went into, and we saved the business sector. But what is interesting - that is why I am not saying this, you can still question it - is that in 2020 the euro area, deficit in the euro area grew 7.1 % and in the Czech Republic 5,8%, i.e. even during the first year of the covid, less than in the euro area, and in the second year of the euro area 5,3%, in the Czech Republic 5,1%. So it is not true that we were increasing debt faster than the euro area, on the contrary, it was slower. And in 2022, you settled it, which means you were in debt as much as you did in the euro area. Now I say this in your favour, because the claim that if taxes don't go up, the Czech Republic goes bankrupt is incredible nonsense, and I don't know why you're subject to it, if your advisors say so, or former politicians say so. The truth is that the Czech public finances are not in order, it is obvious, and they need to be dealt with, but it is not true that we are before bankruptcy, and with that in mind we would also make the changes. How? That means, we'd do them with reason, we'd save, yes, but we wouldn't jeopardize investment, what you're endangering today, and we wouldn't endanger expenditures associated with innovation, science, for example, and that's what you're doing. At the same time, we would motivate entrepreneurs and employees to perform as an absolute basis for future added value - which you can talk about beautifully, but you are doing exactly the opposite - in order to achieve it sometimes. Every farmer knows that in times of crisis he must maintain future returns, otherwise he simply will not survive. Now specifically about the deficits, how we'd deal with them. If I split the deficit into a cyclic part and a structural part, we would logically deal with that part of the cyclic part - and here we may agree with you - with extraordinary income. Where we no longer agree is that we would make much better use of resources from the European Union, where there are 962 billion crowns thanks to our government. You don't know how to drain those resources and run into a pitchfork for nothing. Of course, we would use an exceptional dividend from ČEZ, but we would also go into the use of undistributed profits from ČEZ. And the argument that he doesn't have cash on his accounts - so he would borrow it like it's done in other companies. We certainly wouldn't set Windfall's tax at 60 percent, which is a nasty payback. You've all been warned about this, you've set the highest windfall tax from across the European Union, if I'm not mistaken, although it recommended it to be somewhere at 30, 35 percent. You set it up almost twice, you burdened those companies in an incredible way, and they gave it back to you. They gave it back to you because your 100-billion-dollar dream vanished like steam over a pot in a few months. You'll be happy to have a few tens of billion crowns, 30, 40 billion crowns. So we would go to 35 percent and, of course, we would work with extraordinary inflation revenues, although we understand that this is partly because it is burdened with extraordinary inflation spending again. We would deal with the structural deficit over a period of five years by reducing by a systematic amount or an interim amount of CZK 40 to 50 billion, and it is not enough. How would we get her? 20 to 25 billion crowns by savings in ministries, which, among other things, is not entirely far from your proposal: by combining agendas, wages and so on, 5 to 10 billion crowns to increase specific taxes, excise, vice and so on, even here - at least in this amount - we are not different. And then we'd go into what you're worried about, and we think that's fair, and that's consistent and strong tax collection. Yes, we would re-establish electronic records of sales, and we wouldn't be afraid of that. We're a joke to the world! They introduce it everywhere, they expand the selection through credit cards or the acceptance of payment cards, and we go the exact opposite way. And not only are we a joke because it bothers consumers, it bothers serious companies that warned about it, including their associations, but of course it bothers the state, because you're losing money. We could probably also discuss abolishing certain exceptions if it had a reasonable social impact, but that is already the subject for the shadow finance minister and for the President of Club Schillerová. In any case, in the long run, we would go again differently than you, because if we are to maintain some appropriate growth, it is about promoting science, research, innovation and reviving our innovation strategy, which you have unmistakably put in the drawer. We would immediately update and perhaps present a new economic strategy. Yes, it would be based on innovation. Yes, once again, we would show the country for the future, while you are making this country a country of the past. Where is the Minister of Economy or the Minister of Industry? Where is the one who should be pulling this economic strategy at this time? Where's it at? Which one of you has ever seen him before? He's floating in some European waters. Energetics and key things have been partially taken away from him, so at least let him do the economic strategies! And instead of working on them, he'll tell the nation that he's taking on another great management challenge that he's leaving us. Well, thank God! [[A round of applause for several members of the YES.]] I hope you'll replace him with someone who can at least put this together. And how is this government progressing? We all know that. You promise 94 billion, next year or another 147 billion. It's on the water! You don't believe that, do you? You mix tax increases and savings, you confuse the public that more goes into savings. It's a trick again, it's not true! Well, the tax increase will bring you something, there's no doubt about it, although I think maybe less than you assume by optimization. But, of course, with the employees and so on, you pick something extra. Nobody understood VAT today and I don't want to go back there at all, to porn magazines and so on, it's just a cherry sour on a cake. The point is, you're gonna make such a mess of it that no one knows anything about it anymore. You dig ditches. It's always gonna be about who's been lobbying more, lobbying more, and the state isn't gonna make any money, and nothing's gonna get cheaper, because logically, the traders are gonna keep it, so I don't understand why you guys were doing this. But, of course, it will bring some resources. I don't mean VAT, but I mean tax increases. But savings? Total chaos. So you claim to save up to CZK 54 billion in the grant business. Where do you want to save them, please nicely? That's what we're going to discuss here. I will then take the floor in the package, and I, Minister of Finance, will want to hear from you a detailed analysis of where you will, as you said at the press conference, continue to save the CZK 54 billion. It's not like you're gonna save it from any unused expenses in the first year, that you're gonna switch over some temporary framework and so on! Where is it every year when you come up with it like that, everyone applauded you for taking money from those naughty businessmen - where are you gonna get it? Because you all know very well that it is not about entrepreneurs, they have it from European sources. If you want to save CZK 54 billion - of course you can - you have to reach into transport, you have to reach into education, you have to reach into local development and so on, after all, what you put there at least partially. But we want to see the detail - the detail where it will be. [[10.40 hours]] And while we're at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, you said it would be CZK 20 billion. Where do you get this from the Ministry of Industry and Trade? After all, you have one single source, and these are renewable energy sources when I don't take 1.5 -1.7 billion for energy-intensive operations. You don't want to give them energy-intensive operations today, at least in 2023. I'm curious next year. Do you remember, Minister of Finance, how you laughed at us for not having it in our budget? How did you bring us here when you became Minister of Finance? We said, "We'll collect it and give it over the course of the year." You're doing the same thing! The only difference is, we put the money there, and I'm wondering if you're gonna put it there. At this point, you're saying no, but I'm talking about the next few years. Well, that's one thing. But that's 1.7 billion, but the main 20 billion crowns on renewables? After all, you have only three options: either it blinds the state, or you transfer it to consumers, or to families, to companies, and so on, or you don't pay the investors. If you don't pay off the investors, which you wanted to do, here you have for decades or ten years of endless dispute and you lose everything. If you give it back to people, you have to tell them you're gonna cost them their energy again. And if he lets it stand, you don't have the money anywhere. That's the savings on the grant business? No. It's just a numbers game! And then we have another 34 billion crowns. So tell me, how much traffic this year, how much next year? I mean 2024, 2025 and so on. How much for education? And tell me, what will transport investment be paid for? We all know it's necessary to continue these constructions, so the only way that it is is to take it off the loan, because PPP projects will be happy to find us in 2025, I think we can agree on that. So what's it going to be made of next year? You've got a total stew in it. It's all in general, and we're going to want you to say specifically here, on which programs, whether business, non-business, it will turn out, and let the ministers come out here and say, "Yes, I respect that you'll take away CZK 2, 3, 5, 7 billion from my education, I'll take so much and so much for transport, I'll do so much and so much for local development, and I won't put it there or I'll put it out of that loan, that's another thing. If you put it on the loan, you're painting the grass green. That doesn't make any sense at all! It'll just cost you interest rates. Yes, part of it can be downloaded into agriculture, I can imagine, but certainly not 10 billion, maybe units of billions of crowns. You will create uncompetitive entities from Czech farmers and food professionals, but you are already champions at this. So if there is to be any credible discussion at all, then it is necessary for you to quantify these savings in detail, not in general. No, that resort 10, that resort 20, that resort 5, but specifically, what programs in what years to compare it to this year, compare it with next year and so on, and at the same time tell how much credit you're going to draw from the European Investment Bank. Because the principle, and I'm at the end of it, is very simple. You can't ask, five-calice colleagues, all of it! We claim 50 billion a year, we stand by it, we scare no one, and we claim and show where we could get the 50 billion. At the same time, we argue that this will not kill growth and will not kill the future development of the country, and we are not antisocial to students, pensioners, to vulnerable groups. You claim - you claim only - 90 to 140 billion crowns a year by increasing taxes - that is a socialist approach. Or you will reduce spending forcefully, that would be the Kalouskovsky approach after the global financial crisis, but it will, of course, kill future growth. You can play it that way, we'll argue and we'll say it's wrong, you kill future growth, but it's fair. Then tell those people and show them where it is. But you can't do what you're doing at the same time, which means you're raising taxes, but you're pretending not too much. You're raising them in carpets, although you said something else here. In October of last year, Prime Minister Fiala said no taxes will be raised, period. Quite the opposite. And the expenses? You're reducing, but only on paper. You deal with investments by credit. What kind of solution is that you don't put money in education, it takes it on loan? For this reason, logically, we cannot assume that this is a consolidation package - it is a tax package - and that it is a pension reform, what you are presenting. These are some parametric changes you're making. So the result is that you're gonna upset people, you're gonna demotivate them, you're not gonna reduce the deficit by what you put forward, not by your plans. You'll be very happy to get close to our $50 billion number. And that's why your packages are untrustworthy for us. and thus presented and unacceptable! I deliberately say "presented" because let's discuss what's going to change in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u7	Mr Okamura will now speak with priority, followed by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here proposals from the Fialův Government for the largest global tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic. The government will make all Czech citizens' lives more expensive and business expensive for all companies. On behalf of the SPD, I am clearly saying that we do not agree with these proposals and we will fight this with all our strength. And, of course, after the debate on this particular point has been opened, we shall, on behalf of the SPD, make a motion for rejection, so that our proposal will be voted on. Fialův's five-calice government is putting out a fire in the form of the current government of a badly drawn state budget, which is why it intends to put an end to the catastrophic state budget development for this year by a five-calice approved deficit of CZK 295 billion. However, this was exhausted from 97 percent in the first half of the year after the June counting of one-off income from the European Union and advances on corporate tax. When I simplify and sum up, the government sends hundreds of billions to Ukrajinec or to unnecessarily overpriced foreign orders, but it does not have money for Czech citizens or give it to them. The SPD movement has argued from the very beginning that this year's state budget is unrealistic and is based on unrealistic revenues and expenditure. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is now presenting to the House on 732 pages the largest global tax increase in the modern history of our republic, which has an impact on 60 legal standards. Moreover, the current ODS, the strongest government party, has tricked voters into promising never to raise any taxes. So, on the one hand, the government is disproportionately supportive of Ukraine, and on the other hand, the government's five-calice will redefine the austerity package for citizens. Moreover, the proposed proposal does not propose meaningful cuts in expenditure at all. For example, the government proposes to increase value added tax for most types of goods and services, which means that you will make life more expensive for all citizens of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, the government proposes to increase personal income tax, you also propose to increase corporate tax, you want to increase property tax, you want to increase excise duties, you want to increase pension insurance, and also sickness insurance, including increased social insurance contributions for businessmen. So the Fialův government goes against everyone! The Fialův Government goes against all citizens of the Czech Republic. The only ones he's helping are American arms companies and Ukrajinec. The SPD's movement does not agree with these proposals, and we will make every effort of the opposition to ensure that this set of harmful measures is not approved in the form presented, including by submitting a number of amendments to it. At this point, we have 20 amendments prepared for the consolidation package. According to an analysis by the Research Institute of Labour and Social Affairs, the average Czech household loses CZK 7,614 a year. The reality will be slightly worse, because the analysis does not count on increasing corporate taxes and gambling, taxes on contract work, cancellation of employee benefits and discounts on students. The Fialův government is shutting it all down. That means, the Fialův government will totally step up, completely punish all decent and working people in the Czech Republic. Look how much medicine it costs. A lady texted me today that she's on a gluten-free diet and that she's probably not gonna tighten it because the food is ridiculously expensive. [[10.50 hours]] On the contrary, the Fialův Government continues to keep the abuse of benefits inadaptable. Here, let me just remind you that the SPD movement presented here for the second time last spring, we submitted it in the last parliamentary term, we tabled a bill to end the abuse of benefits, social benefits by so-called inadaptables, we propose about 70 changes. We've prepared the bill, consulted experts for two years, and Fialův's five-calice government has rejected our bill here last spring. That means Fialův's five-callice government continues to support the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptables, that suits them, that the government wants, it supports, but it robs, literally, all decent people of money. That means, yes, you're canceling employee benefits, you're canceling student discounts, you're basically canceling out the benefits of subtractions on a working husband and wife and so on. You're punishing everyone across the board, raising your VAT, which means you're really gonna make lives more expensive for everyone. Economists therefore increase the overall estimate of the damage. For example, the economist Libor Dušek announced that the government package would cost the average Čech 15,000 a year, over 7,000 of which would pay tax to the state and lose the rest on cuts of relief and deduction. So in the finals, you actually take, you rob all decent citizens of an average of CZK 15,000 a year clean. That's incredible completely, that's a huge amount, that's a huge amount. Moreover, the government is lyingly boasting that a positive report for citizens is said to be a reduction in VAT on food from 15 to 12 percent. Well, you forgot to add that, for example, you're making baby water more expensive, which was 10 percent, which is completely, I have to say... I think it's totally sick, people are writing me this way that you're gonna cut off working families with children and by making them expensive baby water, that's an incredible thing to do. But let's talk about groceries. Of course, citizens can only dream of reducing prices in practice, as food is constantly becoming more expensive because of the incompetent Fialův government. The solution would be to reduce VAT on basic food to zero. But that is not what the Fialův Government wants to do, so our citizens will continue to shop cheaply in Poland for the government. So instead of creating the conditions for citizens to spend the money they generate within the Czech Republic back into the system here in the Czech Republic, you're undermining the economy by forcing citizens to spend elsewhere where food is cheaper, for example, because you haven't been able to take measures that the SPD has been talking about for a long time. Since 2025, on the basis of the Government's proposal, for example, the current 19 per cent will increase to 21 per cent of corporate tax. The state, or the Fialův government, will pay CZK 22 billion. And, of course, if you increase the taxes on the companies, they will transfer them to costs. In other words, nothing will be cheaper and the increased tax, the 22 billion, will pay customers, i.e. citizens. I think we all know that. The government argues that taxes are higher elsewhere. That's a very desperate, stupid, and most importantly a toothless argument. Other than that, taxes are higher and taxes are lower elsewhere. In dozens of other successful countries, such as the US or Japan, for example, there is no VAT, there is a so-called turnover tax paid by the end customer and ranges up to 10 percent. The advantage is clear - there are no tax deductions, so less bureaucracy, less control, zero fraud, so the customer pays less and at the same time saves both companies and the state. But I'm sure you'll argue that Brusel is ordering us to have complicated, absurd VAT. Yes, having an expensive and complicated system in everything really requires us to have Brussels, the European Union. So remember that when you really want to save money, and let us start by getting out of the European Union. We will save on Green Deal, on energy, on taxes, on contributions from Brussels, on Brussels bureaucracy and on immigrants, which force us with your contribution to Brussels. But that's what I'm gonna get to as part of my performance. Anyway, let us review that the government package, which means what the Purple Government is proposing here, will cost each citizen of the Czech Republic more than 15 000 crowns a year. This must be repeated all the time. Purple government five-calice - ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL - will cost every citizen in the Czech Republic 15 000 crowns a year and that is a very large amount. And we ask - what will happen with the money that the government will take from all of us? Will the state deficit be reduced? No. These and others of ours - I repeat, our money the government will throw into the throats of American arms companies because it plans to increase arms purchases, throw them to the Ukrainian regime and Ukrainian economic migrants and, of course, to ideological non-profits that promote war, censorship and other restrictions on civil liberties and the rest of the non-existent democracy, in the name of your only truth and in the name of a war that is absolutely useless, because war with Russia cannot be won - everyone knows that because the Rus will not back down and use nuclear weapons in the worst case, and that means that we will all be defeated. From the money that the Fialův government takes from our citizens, you want to finance a war that, in a better case, you won't win, in a worse case, you will bring about a nuclear apocalypse. In what interest? In the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic? No, in the interest of American arms companies and American war hawks who don't want to accept the fact that American domination of the world is over and most of the countries of the planet have turned away from Američan. Even in this respect, a train is running completely out of government, and the government is gradually putting us in huge economic problems, just as the whole of the European Union is getting into them. When we look at the movements on the world stage, let's look at the BRICS association, look at the Shanghai Convention. Basically, they're already negotiating against the block represented by the United States, the European Union, by all the most populous countries in the world. Today, half of the world's population, even half the world's population, is China, India, Russia and other huge countries, even Iran and other countries, are joining together in large international associations and are starting to cooperate - and it is the only thing that is catalyzed here by the President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Prime Minister Fiala, and so on: they are united by hatred of the Western world, hatred of the United States of America. So either we take it as the fact that this is the case, and we continue to pretend that this is not the case, and we are basically on the verge of being marginal - even economically and politically, or we need to act and we need to act in such a way that there is peace in the world and that there is prosperity for the Czech Republic to be a prosperous, safe country. When I see it in the foreign media and watch national television every night, I watch Japanese news, basically when I look at this meeting in Shanghai, basically countries that already agree on a common economic cooperation, but also security, already represent half of the population of the world even - half of the population of the globe - and we get completely out of it, we get completely out of it, the European Union and America. These countries have raw materials, and as I say, they are united by a common hatred of the Western world, which is being escalated by people like the President of the House Pekarová Adamová, Prime Minister Fiala and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. It is a stupid policy, I think we should act really in a way that leads the Czech Republic to prosperity and security, and not to an escalation of tension. This means that this is simply a situation that is in the world, and I have to say here in this sense that the Fialův Government does not know which beats at all, and it is not just about the Minister of Foreign Lipavský of the pirát, who of course - nobody even talks to him, nobody takes it seriously - but the government should reflect these geopolitical movements in the world so that in some way it leads to prosperity and politics that will be in the interests of the Czech Republic. That means not kissing anybody's ass, not being servile, but you need to see these moves. This means that the European Union is, of course, weakening. [[11.00 hours]] This means that the European Union is, of course, weakening. I remember the decades they were in the first... There was a European country in the ranking of three countries, the most advanced economic countries, and there was always the US, Japan and Germany. Of course, Germany has long since fallen, there is no European country in the first three countries. The European Union is in debt up to its ears, as you know. Now in Madrid last week, when the Španěl took over the Presidency of the Council of Europe, the President of the European Commission von der Leyenová said that she wanted to raise another hundred billion dollars, by hundreds of billions she wants to raise the money that EU Member States are supposed to send to the European Union, because the European Union is not European, it is a debt union, it is the debt union to which the President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, drives us to it by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, pirát, People's Union, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala. The European Union is completely without money, even bonds are no longer enough. It has no money, which is why it forces Member States to pour more and more hundreds of billions into this bottomless well, and to bow to the stupid politicians headed by these policies I deal with. The Czech Republic is in debt up to the ears. You're borrowing with the European Development Bank, borrowing loans with a maturity of even decades, loans with a maturity of 2057 and some years like this, just incredible what the Fialův government is doing here. You just owe us more and more. The European Union is also in debt up to its ears. No one has any money at all, and you are still continuing this year's policy of destroying the Czech Republic, the total destruction of the Czech Republic. And I'm sleeping... Our voters also ask, "Who has promised you what? We'll see about that in time, of course. We'll see in time who promised these government politicians that you're selling out the Czech Republic that you're acting this incredibly treasonous, there's no other way to call it. And the kind of silly talk that the House President Mrs Pekarová Adamová represents here, that whoever disagrees with the Fialův Government's policy of being pro-Russian or pro-Pputinian - keep the lies already, leave those desperate screams. Yesterday we saw a survey of an agency that government politicians like to quote, it is the Center for Public Opinion Research of the Academy of Sciences, and over half of the citizens of the Czech Republic have no confidence in the European Union. So take off the flag of the European Union, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, which you put here, that was not here last term. We don't want the flag of the European Union that's here. Most citizens of the Czech Republic do not trust the European Union! Stop making this a European Union! We want two Czech flags here to be here. What are you doing here... Mr President, according to the Rules of Procedure.) [[(President: And you address me by the Presidency (through)]] I thought you'd say something, but you'd have to do that on the microphone, of course, from the Rules of Procedure, if you took off the flag of the European Union. I'd like to ask you to do that. Remove the flag of the European Union you put here after your arrival. Most citizens of the Czech Republic do not trust the European Union. Leave the comedy here. Stop manipulating this place like what you're doing here. And the awkwardness with that shirt you did here last week, everyone's laughing at you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u9	One more time. Follow the Rules of Procedure, address them through the President. I understand it's strange because you address me directly and I am the President, and you know very well that I can't respond, so I'm warning you that I can't respond from this point to your comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u10	Well, I think all you have to do is get up and take down the flag of the European Union, and you don't have to react. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] So this is just my opinion, I'm just saying it straight here. We all see the CVVM survey, it's been done by the mainstream, and it comes to my words, most people don't trust the European Union. And I think your policy is very much to blame, by the way, but we are actually happy about it, because exactly what you're doing, I think the citizens are seeing it, and I agree with those citizens. I agree with most citizens of the Czech Republic who do not trust the European Union, and the SPD here as the only party in Parliament demands a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. I, of course, in such a referendum if you allow it - but you do not want to allow it, neither the ANO movement nor the Five-Calice movement will allow it, none of you want a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU - I will vote in favour of the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. And frankly, you should also remove that Ukrainian flag from the House. I don't think he's supposed to be here at all. We are the Czech Republic. Czech Republic! They have a line of Czech flags here, not a Ukrainian flag and a flag of the European Union. You are the Ukrainian government, you are not the Czech government. So I just want to say that you're just saying that there's no money. They are, the state has record revenue. Of course, the government has still not shown, transparently and truthfully, how much money is costing us Ukraine's migration and support for the Ukrainian regime. We know it's about 100 billion crowns. We know you've already put over 40 billion on weapons in Ukraine, that's what Prime Minister Fiala said this spring. And you're giving Ukrajinec tens of billions more. Support - it is all support that went at the expense of Czech pensioners, at the expense of Czech health care, at the expense of Czech families and Czech children, and now you want to do everything on debt and now you want to increase taxes to all citizens of the Czech Republic. Today, we know that in most of Ukraine, war does not affect people's lives in any way, and that Ukrajinec who allegedly fled here before the war go home massively on vacation, or they drove cars from all over Europe, so that they would flee elsewhere in quotation marks back to us for more cars. That's right. České dráhy and Student Agency increased connections now in the summer to Ukraine, because those people who fled to us in quotation marks go on vacation there. The Ukrajinec traveling to a place of war on vacation is probably the first case in history when this absurd situation has occurred because of the Fialův Government. War reporter Markéta Kutilová, who has been making trips to Syria and Iraq since 2015, left for Ukraine a few days ago. She wrote a report from Kiev on the full functionality of the city. I quote: "Business overflows with goods, fuel enough," it says in her Facebook post. According to Kutilová, Kiev is a fully functional city. Next, I quote: "Kiev is a beautiful, modern, living city again. The subway works, Bolt, shopping centers, restaurants and mecca, everything. The same is true of hundreds of cities in the west of Ukraine." End quote, and at the end of the post she added a recommendation for travelers to Ukraine by car that it is better to cross the border outside the weekend and at night, thus avoiding the columns. That's the reality, that's the situation. They are at war in many places of the planet, and in many places of the planet, people are in far greater danger of life than the vast majority of Ukrajinec. Our government chose only migrants from Ukraine and supports their relocation to the Czech Republic. That's the way to hell. Mass economic migration has never done anything good anywhere, we see it all in Western Europe. Today's conflicts of Ukrajinec with Czech Rom people who already have their dead are just the tip of the iceberg from hell that can await us. Lying and censorship will never solve the problems that are here. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's package can be discussed in detail, discussed in the following debate as well as in our Members, and expressed specifically on the things you are proposing there, that is to say, in many dozens of your proposals, you are robbing all citizens of the Czech Republic in detail and you are going to make their lives more expensive to everyone so that you have money to send abroad. Of course, everywhere in your government consolidation package we will find problems, non-systemicity and expectations errors - many economists and my fellow Members have also named it and named it yet, but it really is crucial in principle that the government is mistaking it and, on the other hand, it is wrong to give it. And let's think about what it means, why it doesn't save up where it doesn't save up, that is, on itself - bureaucracy, on political nonprofits, on weapons, on foreigners. You save on the most vulnerable, in the elderly, in the disabled, in families with children, and you share and destroy those who feed us - companies, entrepreneurs, farmers. [[11.10 hours]] I would just point out here that the Fialův government agreed to raise the salaries of politicians this year. Yes, exactly, President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Prime Minister Fiala, Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, pirát Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of the People's Party, Mr Jurečka and others. You guys have been declaring an increase in the salaries of politicians since this year! That's incredible, your insolence! The SPD voted against. I even proposed freezing politicians' salaries for the entire term, you voted against it, and you rejected my proposal! So here, in this House, led by the President of the House, Mrs Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 and led by the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates, you have raised your own salaries for politicians this year and now you are raising taxes for all citizens who are contributing to your salaries. That's incredible insolence! It's unbelievable what your government is doing! And let's think about what that means. Why doesn't the Fialův government save money where it doesn't save money? Government politicians are overreacting in terms of what the package of measures is - consolidation, austerity, or even flagrantly lying that it is anti-inflationary. But none of this is true. The government package, by making life more expensive at all levels, both private and business, is explicitly upside-down. We talked about savings. They don't save where they should be. It will save on the needy people only so that the government can throw the money away elsewhere, so austerity is a contradiction. Of course, these misguided and harmful measures can never consolidate public finances, and no one, not even the government, is really expecting that. The current government has resigned to addressing inflation as well as further huge debt to the Republic, with the applause of its politicians and some media. Instead, you go on and quietly increasing the cost of the state budget. It is highly likely that the state budget deficit will be in hundreds of billions next year, at least CZK 200 billion. No one is arguing that a balanced budget is needed, that we have to save, that we are in agreement, and that we differ only in where to save. According to the findings of the Supreme Audit Office - SAO - the state is firing hundreds of billions of crowns for unnecessary projects. He's wasting everything you look at. The Ministry is like a leaky colander, where a million, ten million don't matter. No one solves millions for Brussels fanatics, billions for totally unnecessary overpriced American fighters. Of course, what we are also interested in, and we have already discussed it at a press conference, that we will want to know how much it cost to visit the Ukrainian President of Zelenský in the Czech Republic, because the government coalition, your government, the Fialův Government, gave him a government plane to fly around Europe. In doing so, we know that Ukraine has an aircraft for foreign flying. He does! And you gave the taxpayers' money to the Ukrainian president to fly here to Turkey to fly around here from Bulgaria and everywhere, and we'll be interested and we're interested and we're asking you, and if we don't get an answer, it'll go through a written interview, so within 30 days, you have to tell us how much the plane cost, how much the cost was. And it's not just about the plane. Our constituents also work with soldiers, they work with the police, and we know that many of them should have planned a vacation, and because of the visit they had to stay at work, they had to be at work, they had to keep the ER and so on, so the costs are much higher, it's not just about the plane. These costs are gonna be huge! And we're wondering how much it cost, no matter what every citizen thinks about it. We'll have it evaluated by the citizens, the information. That might be what House President Pekarová Adamová could tell us, how much it cost, the visit together. We estimate it to be tens of millions, of course. Of course. I know what one charter flight costs, and I remember that from the tourism business, how much one charter flight costs. That's what I know -- about the sums, because there were several flights and so on, staff and so on -- so I see that Vice-President Mrs. Kovářová of the House of STAN and Mrs. Pekarová Adamová are laughing at this question of mine. I don't think it's funny! Keep laughing. I'm not gonna laugh about it! Sounds like a serious question to me about how you use public money. On the one hand, you're shaking at every hundred crowns that a grandmother is supposed to get, that's what you're suggesting, stealing from the one hundred crowns of the last helpless person in the Czech Republic, that's your proposal for a consolidation package in your quotes, and at the same time it's funny to the top representatives of the government coalition when I ask about the various expenses that I don't think many citizens want at all. That's actually quite significant for the situation, for your arrogance, for your oversight, for your highness of power. This is the Speaker of the House, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová. That's it! And that is the problem with your expensive package, which will rob citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses of billions. The word robs them in the right place because you don't need that money for the benefit of this country, but for the benefit of other people's interests, and you have no right to do that! No one ever gave you a mandate to do that. So the SPD is definitely saying no to your package of theft! And who seems to think I'm talking too much about the House President here, I think you've set up relationships and negotiations after I joined the House, you've set them up with your arrogant and insulting statements against over half a million SPD voters...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u11	Mr President, I warn you repeatedly that you do not comply with the Rules of Procedure. You should address your colleagues, including me, through the President. This is the third time I have brought this to your attention during this speech, so please respect this provision of the Rules of Procedure here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u12	Okay. Okay, yes, and I will ask you again to remove the flag of the European Union, by your means, because I don't want to look at it, and most of the citizens of the Czech Republic, as I say, do not believe the European Union, and also remove the Ukrainian flag from the Chamber of Deputies, and at all, remove the Ukrainian flags from all the ministries, from the authorities, because I think your government trusts only 20 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[Member Hayato Okamura bangs on the bench, some government MPs join in.]] I am so glad that the government MPs are listening to my speech. I'm sure that's a good thing, but I'm afraid, and I'm sure it's like playing the wall. Let's move on, then. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here today not only the consolidation, in quotation marks the consolidation package, or, in other words, the rip-off package, but we also have a second proposal here today, and it is the government's proposal for a five-wheeler to which the government is promoting de facto theft of pensioners. The government proposes a significant reduction in the proper remuneration of pensions, a complete abolition of exceptional pension valorisations and tightening the conditions for early retirement pensions, including a reduction in this type of pension. The SPD's movement clearly rejects these government proposals and, of course, we will again, on behalf of the SPD, make a motion for rejection. Our motion for rejection has already been voted at first reading, the SPD has submitted a motion to reject this retirement robbery and we will now be at second reading, so we will again submit a motion for rejection in the debate, so our proposal will be voted on. At the same time, we are proposing ten own amendments to this government amendment, where we demand to maintain the existing form of pension valuations or their alternative adjustment in the form of raising pensions for all their beneficiaries by the same financial amount, which would be fair and would help low-income pensioners. With regard to early pensions, we propose maintaining the current setting of conditions, including allowing limited earnings when receiving them as well as for employees on a standard employment basis. At the same time, we propose the possibility of leaving for a proper old-age pension without any reduction for citizens who have spent 45 years or more on pension insurance. The SPD movement will defend and defend the social and economic interests and rights of all current and future pension recipients. Everyone here agrees... [[11.20 hours]] Also, when I heard some banging on the right - yes, it is necessary to say yes, were the government MPs banging, and who was banging? I saw KDU-ČSL members banging, and it was in connection with the fact that I said that the government should take the Czech Republic first, and I was talking about Ukraine being the first for the government. Yes, so the folks are clearly saying: Ukraine comes first, the reception of migrants comes first, and the Czech citizens are totally not interested in them. Yes, that's how it is, and it needs to be explained, because I think the audience here is definitely - because the footage isn't around the corner - it needs to be said which side has expressed this way to explain it here. So keep banging, and I'm always happy to explain. If you don't know how to behave and you don't know when someone's talking to get some space here. But that's how you can bang anyone who wants to, there's democracy here, of course, but of course he likes it always - that's what needs to be put into context so everyone knows what's going on here. And speaking of people, you actually reminded me by banging, it's actually good that you reminded yourself because I'm talking about pensions, and it needs to be emphasized that who runs the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, who is in charge of social affairs and pensions - folks, chairman of the People's Party Marian Jurečka. So the folklore, yes, they've arranged to rob the elderly in the government. Isn't that right? That's right. So thank you for reminding me, because that's what I said earlier in my speech, but now I'm just pointing it out. Now it is important to emphasize: they are folklore, KDU-ČSL. They've prepared, they've written the law at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, and that's the law to rob old people that we have here now. So if you guys want to bang again, then slam again on my next show, remind me again, I'll repeat it again, so I don't forget it. But, of course, the proposal is the Fialův Government as a whole. So that's what this is about. We all agree here that there is a need for pension reform. However, the fundamental difference is in the view of implementing this reform. While the SPD wants dignified conditions for current and future pensioners, as I was saying, the Fialův government really wants to rob them. But the road can't be that, at a time when life costs rise recordlessly because of an incompetent government, the government takes money away from people. We're talking about helpless people, old, sick, or even disabled fellow citizens who don't have how to increase their income by their own strength. The solution is not so unrealistic. There is just a need to address the problem of pensions in several levels. They will not help the simple accounting tricks that the desperate Fialův government is doing, i.e. on the income side, to increase taxes, levies, and on the other hand, not tovalorize pensions, to keep inflation deliberately, expensive energy, high spending on both foreigners and self-management. In more detail on this government proposal, namely that you want to rob all pensioners for the second time this year, I will speak in the debate when the debate on this particular point is opened. So I'd like to stop by here one more time for a second time and say you want to rob a pensioner. Yes, it is. Let me just remind you that this year, in winter, you have designed and pushed the force here - we as the opposition, we as the SPD have defended it with all our strength, but there are 20 of the 200 Members, so we have done our best to delay it - you have put in place here to rob 3 million pension recipients of the promised valorisation they were supposed to receive in June. This means that you have robbed all beneficiaries of old-age, disability, widowed and orphaned pensions by an average of CZK 1,000. And it's not enough for you. So you robbed an old man. If I remember correctly, you said you were short on legal valorisation of 19 billion crowns. Exactly where Prime Minister Fiala, President of the House Pekarová Adamová, and others said that you have no money, 19 billion, retired, so you must take away their promised valorisation on average CZK 1,000 a month. In the meantime, it turns out you have the money, and you sent tens of billions to arms contracts and Ukrainians. That's Fialův's government policy. And for the SPD - we have it the other way around, for us the Czech Republic and Czech citizen are first place. And now you're coming up with another retirement robbery, and not just old people, but in your "consolidation" package, as I said, you're robbing every citizen of 15,000 crowns a month on average, as the economists say. [[per year]] This means that you took an average of CZK 1,000 a month to the promised valorization, you have 12 000, now an average of 15 000 every citizen a year, so you really are losing tens of thousands of crowns to Czech citizens a year now! The money they were counting on, the money they were entitled to, and of course, we fundamentally disagree. So I was not enough to stare at what Prime Minister Fiala of ODS has just shown during the visit of Ukrainian President Zelenský. Here I would just remind you that when Ukrainian President Zelenskyj gave a speech here in the Chamber of Deputies last year, that was the video presentation, the only SPD MPs left behind and did not applaud. The only members of the House of SPD remained seated and did not applaud the Ukrainian President of Zelenský. That's right, I'm applying. Now I'm thinking to myself, I don't have my eyes back, but Mrs Pekarová Adamová is definitely going again, by your means: proruský Proputin Okamura. [[Mr Okamura turns to the President.]] Those desperate lies and screams of yours, it's absolutely unbelievable, I'm already laughing at it, the whole Republic is laughing at it. You have no other argument, you always scream something like that. That means, for you, the one who is pro-Czech is pro-Pputinian and Ukrainian. [[Member Jílková and Ochodnická stood before the speaker's counter with the flag of the EU.]] Now, let me just describe that the MPs here whose names I don't know, but they're the government, they put up the flag of the European Union in front of me. I know her. You don't have to hang out. I know her because Mrs. Pekarová has already put her up for us. [[Outside the microphone one of the EU flag Members: Your via.]] So it's okay! I would like you, ladies, to observe the rules of procedure here, because the Members speak to the microphone. So you're here to lecture me on the Rules of Procedure, and you broke it in the first sentence. Anyway, I'm always gallant with the ladies, of course, so of course I'll leave it to you without comment. Yes, political conflict, political views, that's okay, political duel, but that's what we all do, so it's absolutely delicious. What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna flash this place, 'cause this is a great reaction from government politicians. [[Ambassador Okamura takes photos on his cell phone.]] There.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u13	I think you should rather continue your speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u14	Come on, I think you guys are making a charade out of this for your leadership. [[Keep going, please.]] Don't you think, Madam President, that you should take order in another direction? Because every Member under the Rules of Procedure has the right to speak in peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u15	You do, but I think it's quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u16	Okay, so I'm gonna take a nice picture of your exhibition here, too, and your theater. You are the only one who sets the rules again, Madam President, and I am merely adapting to them. So let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u17	So, next time, address the Rules of Procedure again: through the President. Now you have spoken directly to me - yes, I know you call me with great love and joy very often, but you should follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u18	Once again, I would just like to say - and now let us put this in some boundaries - that we are talking here about the fact that the Fialův Government wants to rob the pensioners of the promised pensions, and of the current, and of the future, that you want to make people's lives more expensive, that government MPs are holding the flag of the European Union and the President of the House, through you, are dealing with some secondary issues here. So that's exactly what's significant about your policy. Therefore, stand still, because I am a rather experienced speaker, so I don't really care who stands here, who doesn't. But that's okay. [[11.30 hours]] So let's move on. It really struck me when Prime Minister Petr Fiala, after visiting Ukrainian President Zelenský, said that Ukraine was the foreign policy priority of the government. I would expect that the Czech Republic, the interests of the Czech Republic, security, prosperity, will be a foreign policy priority of the government, and here it has really been confirmed that Ukraine is first for the government of Petr Fiala. Otherwise, ladies, the camera's that way, because I'm not looking at you anyway. [[It addresses the Members standing in front of the EU flag benches.]] [[Laughter and applause from the right side of the hall.]] So...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u19	Again, we address ourselves through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u20	The problem is, I don't know what the ladies are called here because I didn't record their activity in the House, so I'd like to address them, but I think one of the government MPs here needs to be made visible at my expense, because otherwise I can't explain it. So I'd like to address them, but I don't know, I haven't noticed the names of these lady comrades.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u21	Mrs Jílková, Mrs Ochodnická, I will advise you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u22	So I'm supposed to write it down, okay, just to remember it? But if it's the first visible activity here in the Chamber of Deputies for a government coalition, then good, everyone does politics in different ways. But now, let's move on, let's put your proposals in context, to the fact that the government coalition wants to make people's lives more expensive and rob those pensioners. In addition, the Purple Government has betrayed the new migration pact of the European Union, which obliges the Czech Republic either to accept illegal African and Islamic migrants or to pay EUR 20,000 for each rejected migrant. The SPD's movement repeatedly calls on Prime Minister Fiala of ODS and Interior Minister Rakušan STAN to join Poland and Hungary's positions and to block the so-called EU migration pact and mandatory quotas. But the Czech Fialův Government supports the EU's migration pact and refuses to take sides with Poland and Hungary, which reject the EU's migration pact. The SPD movement rejects any quota to redistribute illegal immigrants into the Czech Republic and to pay for them. Internal and external security, together with justice, are the essential and necessary functions of the State. That is why we call on Prime Minister Fiala and Home Secretary Rakušan to follow the positions of Poland and Hungary. But instead of supporting our Polish and Hungarian allies at the European summit in their legitimate fight for EU Member States' veto on migration issues, Prime Minister Fiala begged for money from Brussels to support Ukraine's migration to the Czech Republic. According to the SPD, as a sovereign state, we must have the exclusive right to decide who will live with us and who will be helped. The first prerequisite for this is the renewal of the control of Czech state borders. The SPD movement clearly states that the only way to stop migration to the Czech Republic is by leaving the European Union and its own migration and asylum policy. EU countries that accept the most illegal migrants want to move immigrants to Eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, through the new migration pact of the European Union. Punitive Brussels can cost us tens of billions a year. The Czech Purple Government nods and votes in favour at the European Council meeting, unlike Poland, Hungary, which voted against, and Slovakia, which at least delayed. The SPD movement considers mass migration to be a major security risk for the Czech Republic in the long term. Last week, the government in the Netherlands fell due to disagreements over asylum policy. At the heart of the dispute was the new programme of Prime Minister Rutte, which was intended to limit the number of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. The progressive left-wing government parties rejected him. The number of asylum seekers in the Netherlands increased by one third year on year to 46,000, exceeded the critical limit and began to cause serious problems in the country, similarly in France, Belgium and so on. This is the result of the long-term tolerance of mass immigration to the EU, which is most affected by immigration, Germany, France, Italy and so on, and is trying to move part of migrants to Eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, through the new EU migration pact. The only way to avoid the adoption of these predominantly Muslim inadaptable immigrants is, according to the EU proposal and according to what the Purple Government has agreed, to pay CZK 500,000 a year for each migrant so rejected. This can mean up to tens of billions of crowns per year for the Czech state budget. The SPD movement resolutely rejects the accession of the Czech Republic to the new EU migration pact. If the SPD is in government, we will withdraw from this EU migration pact, while long-term we are demanding the protection of our borders and a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. The SPD urges the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in the following text: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the Government to submit a draft Constitutional Act on a referendum in which citizens decide on the approval or non-approval of the EU migration pact.' Dear colleagues, however you don't see it, this country, the Czech Republic, belongs to the citizens of the Czech Republic, actually belongs to our ancestors and our descendants, it simply cannot be distributed legally. If the Fialův Government wants to enrich our republic by thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of migrants from anywhere, first of all ask your bosses, the citizens to whom this country belongs. At this point, the procedure of the Czech Government contradicts the fundamental principles of democracy. None of you government politicians have been given a mandate to give our country to foreigners, wherever they are from. It is a shame that our country's government officials failed to stand up to Poland and Hungary. Yes, you hate Hungary, but what about the Polák? Even Polák don't want to give a blank check to anyone. It's stupid to say, "brát a role model." The opposite applies: Let us be the role models ourselves. Let us be an independent sovereign state that decides its future completely independently and always only for the benefit of its citizens. Who and how will live with us must always decide our citizens, not some foreigners in Brussels who do not live here with us or speak our language. The SPD movement says clear "no" to illegal migration, we say "no" to inadaptable migrants and "no" to Islam in the Czech Republic. And here's one important thing I'd like to add. We have recently heard various politicians talk about their opposition to illegal migration, and these politicians also support the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, fully support Brussels policy and oppose the referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union. But that's a contradiction. The European Union's policy, as we see in the last ten years since 2015, is equal to migration, equals migration from African and Islamic countries. So to say that, on the one hand, someone supports the Czech Republic's membership of the European Union and supports Brussels' policy, on the other hand, saying that it is against migration, that is a contradiction, that is nonsense, it is a lie, because even after ten years, the small Czech Republic failed to do so - as the governments did not want it so much - has not been able to reverse this policy of the European Union. That was what the ODS said 10, 15 years ago before the elections to the European Parliament: we want to reform the European Union. This is how the ODS lied at the time to run for the European Parliament with these passwords. Ten, fifteen years have passed - I believe Mr Zahradil said so - ten, fifteen years have passed, and what is the result of these unrealistic pre-election vows? More regulations, more regulation, censorship and other restrictions on freedoms in the Czech Republic, and especially the debt of the Czech Republic and a large migration wave, which, on the contrary, the social policy of the European Union, supports this wave. So, of course, when someone says they are against migration and at the same time they are for membership of the European Union, it is a contradiction, it is not true, it is a lie. [[11.40 hours]] The only solution to prevent the arrival of illegal migrants in the Czech Republic and to preserve the security of the Czech Republic is the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union - whether someone likes it or not - and their own migration and asylum policy, their own protection of national borders. So, of course, there's only one SPD saying that. We say this as it is, we say it in truth, because the European Union is equal to migration and migration is equal to the European Union. Of course, at this very last, I'd only be able to put a smile on my face. First of all, I'm going to return here to the members of the government coalition so they don't have to stand here for so long. [[Members of the government coalition are still standing in front of the European Union flag speaker.]] It is significant and quite characteristic that the ODS stands before the ODS benches and that the ODS Members do not mind that this is the way in which the servilic policy against Brussels and the European Union is presented. Yes, this is the current ODS, a liberal party that has no conservative values, a party that fully supports Brussels and the European Union's policy, a party that opposes the sovereignty and autonomy of the Czech Republic. If someone stood up in front of the SPD bench like this, we will politely ask him to stand up in front of the bench of another political party, but the ODS doesn't mind. The second thing is - and this really is very typical - that I had to note here - that the government Members do not have the Czech flag at hand immediately, but they immediately have the flag of the European Union at hand. That doesn't deserve another comment. Finally, I will say to the consolidation package - in quotes, of course, the package - which you want to increase the lives of all citizens, I will say to the EU's migration pact and say that you want to basically rob all future and current pensioners: the SPD has an ambition to be in government next time, we want to be part of the next government, we aim to be part of the next government, and we will abolish all these harmful regulations and decisions of the Fialův Government! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u23	[[Change of chair.]] Thank you. Have a nice noon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm taking charge of the meeting. We'll continue with the priority rights. Before I give you my word, Mr. Chairman Fiala, I'll read your apologies. Jan Bartošek apologizes from 11.35 to 12.30 hours for personal reasons, Benešík Ondřej full meeting day without giving reason, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana from 12 to 14 hours for family reasons. Please, Chairman Radim Fiala has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to respond to President Markéta Pekarová Adamová, and I would like to ask her to tell me what is the exact wording of when I should call on her to call on her to remove the flag of the European Union. How is it done in this case when I address it directly through it? So, Madam President, your Presidency, I call on you to call on you to remove the flag of the European Union. I hope if I use it this way, it'll be... [[Laughs in the hall.]] I don't know why everyone's laughing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u25	I am sorry, Mr President, but I must interrupt you for a moment and explain that you have addressed the President directly. Please do this through the President or the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u26	Well, thank you, Madam President, by your means, for your explanation. [[Members with the flag of the European Union have left the speaker's desk.]] I would also like to ask those colleagues who stood here with the flag of the European Union not to leave, because I too am against our membership of the European Union, and why should I be deprived of your standing here? [[Laughter from the left side of the hall.]] I want you to stand here, too. I'll tell you what the flag is and what the symbol is. Because I've made a note of it here, and I'd like everyone to see what kind of flag it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u27	Yes, Mr President, I would like you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Even if you say only ladies, we all know what the two Members are called, so please address them on behalf and also through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u28	Yes. Madam President, you may wonder, but, by your means, please tell me - I have no idea what my name is. If I met them in the hallway, I'm - I'm sorry, through you, I apologize to everyone - but I don't know if I'd know if they were an MP. So if...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u29	Mr President, I call you to order. Your behavior is truly undignified to this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u30	So I am asking you, Madam President, to tell me, by your means, what are the names of the ladies of my colleague, so that I can address them by means of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u31	I know that, of course, Mr President, but this is not my role to tell you. The fact that you don't know the names of your colleagues is very sad. I refer you to this document where you can see what the two Members are called. [[It shows a sheet of paper with pictures and names of Members.]] Therefore, to address them, it is Mrs Ochodnická and Mrs Jílková. Please, remember that now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u32	I'll write it down. Once more, please, Madame...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u33	Mr. Chairman, not like this. I call you to order. Please don't ridicule your colleague and this House's actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u34	I really don't know their names, I'm sorry. Madam President, I am sorry, but I really do not know their names, and I do not know if it is my duty to know them. Maybe it's my ignorance, I'm sorry about that, but I just don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u35	It is really your ignorance, and it would be advisable if you took this list with you, if necessary, so that you know who to call by name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u36	Okay, well, I'm gonna get back to this meeting, but before that, I'd like to comment on the flag that my two colleagues, the honored colleagues, were definitely standing here with. I would like to say that the flag is a flag that is equal to - it is a symbol of migration, a symbol of values that you can watch today and daily on television, not in Czech, but on the Internet, a symbol of what is happening in France, Belgium, Germany. It is a symbol of Western values, a symbol of genderism, a symbol of Green Deal that will cost us billions of crowns, a symbol of climateism and a senseless struggle with CO2, a symbol of family breakdown in Western Europe. It is also a symbol of debt, a symbol of debt Europe, a symbol of redistribution and regulation. The symbol that all - or most, mainly southern - European states are now over-indebted to over 100 percent of GDP, and any deviation can mean that those states will be bankrupt. All of this is a symbol of the flag that was here before us, and also some economists - after all, not only unnamed, but also those who won the Nobelův Prize - say that the Eastern states lost their entry into the European Union, that they could have been farther away today. I say that this flag is also a symbol of the economic colonialism of Eastern and Central Europe by Western Europe. That's what I had to say. I'm sorry those two honored ladies and my colleague aren't standing here anymore because I wanted everyone to see the flag and the symbol. [[11.50 hours]] Very well, thank you, and so that you don't have to call me to order, I'm going to attend today's meeting and start retirement. As the SPD movement, we sat several times with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and discussed a reduction in pension valorisation, we discussed pension reform, and we also discussed an increase in retirement age. We said that if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs wants to do a pension reform, so that pension reform must also concern the demographic curve, because someone has to pay for the pensions, and if we don't have children in the future, nobody really will pay them. We said that pension reform must be dedicated to housing stabilization, and today you learn from the newspaper that Minister Bartoš says that actually the result or solution of the housing crisis is that people will not own apartments. Well, we don't really think that in the SPD, and unfortunately what we discussed with Mr Jurečka was just formal because we didn't get there, and we see that from what we said, there are no conclusions that there is no pension reform. I don't think they're even parametric changes. I think the government just wants to save so that it doesn't have a hole in the budget this year or in the coming years. That's all this is about. This means that now it is necessary to collect the pensioners' real income, reduce the valorisation, set up an increase in retirement age so that it cannot be known when a person will actually leave, but will go far, much later, when even doctors say that at this age most people are simply unable to work, at 68 years of age, a lot of neuro-vegetative diseases and so on at 68 years of age, and especially in harder professions, workers' professions I think it is simply not possible. So as far as pensions are concerned, we are definitely not going to vote for a reduction in valorisation, so I think it's the wrong way to go. We believe that the government should have found funds somewhere else, and not to reduce valorisation, to reduce real income to Czech seniors, because nothing will happen for the first year, maybe not for the second year, but some will already feel it, but those incomes will be reduced exponentially to those seniors, which means that they will feel it most in three and four years, they will become a truly socially weak group of citizens of the Czech Republic and will have a problem to pay - not only by hesitating today if they are to pay their rent, food or medicines, but in a few years they will have a real problem just to pay rent and energy. So as far as pensions are concerned, we are fundamentally against it. We have also expressed this at the first reading of this, it cannot be called pension reforms, but we have expressed at first reading that we do not agree with such a decision, and we will fight at today's meeting and persuade the government to decide otherwise, not to do so and to vote for its own reduction in pension valorisation. Now, let me go to point two, and that's a consolidation package. I believe that this government, which is composed of ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, starosta, TOP 09, brings the largest global tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic. It's over 70 billion, and I don't think it's the right way for any country - not for the Czech Republic, for any country. We're running out of spending here, spending on serving the state, but with that power, this government doesn't do it because it's much more complicated than that, it needs more time. But if any government doesn't start it, like our government, which I hope we'll be in in 2.5 years, it's not going to end well with this country. The government's five koalice is putting out a fire in the form of the current government's poorly drawn state budget, which is why it convened an extraordinary meeting of the House today, at which it intends to present the so-called consolidation package, which it intends to stop the catastrophic state budget development for this year with a five koalice approved deficit of CZK - 295 billion, but it was exhausted in the first half. So then, of course, tax revenues came, mainly corporate income, and some money came from the criticised European Union, but the state budget deficit is still at 97 percent of the planned deficit for the whole year. The SPD movement has been saying and saying from the very beginning, we have told all journalists that the state budget is unrealistic. It is unrealistic in terms of income, where we said that the government will not have so much income from the so-called windfall tax because they will learn to optimize the companies and send it abroad. Most of them are banks, refineries, multinational corporations that just voluntarily don't pay the funds to the state budget if they get their taxes on them. And that's what Lafferův's curve says, that if you just over-tax it, those companies put it somewhere else, they put it to their mothers, they just invest it just so they don't have to give it to the state, because it doesn't do any good for those companies. But the government just drew a budget, drew a budget that was unrealistic in quotes. Just spending is growing, spending is growing at an incredible rate, and the government just can't stop it. And we believe that, above all, on the spending side, the government should be saving. And what does the government do? The government raises taxes to people, that is, pulling money out of the pockets of citizens of the Czech Republic instead of saving money on itself. The government has three more ministers, an infinite number of political representatives, a new digital agency for digitization for Pirates with 250 people for billions! So the government doesn't spare on its own, it raises its salaries, it raises all the Members' salaries, even though we were against it, and we have our proposal to freeze salaries - it discusses with us whether freezing is good, worse or bad, but didn't, didn't do anything at all, didn't do anything at all. And this government now presents to the House on 732 pages the largest global tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic, which has an impact on 60 legal norms, i.e. 60 laws. Moreover, the current ODS lied to voters by promising that they would never raise any taxes. Do you remember that? Remember those billboards? Do you remember the press questions? So what kind of taxes aren't you gonna raise? Well, all taxes, yes, we don't raise all taxes, we don't raise any taxes! And look at that! So, on the one hand, it disproportionately supports Ukraine and, on the other hand, the five-calice government will redefine the austerity package for citizens. What does he need the money for? It needs them for Ukraine, and it needs them for arms, where it voted to give 2% of GDP, which is almost 150 billion - 150 billion a year the government will put on arms! Moreover, the proposed proposal does not propose meaningful cuts in expenditure at all. For example, the government proposes to increase value added tax on most types of goods and services. He's cutting down on something, but he's not gonna get that reduction from a regular citizen. It proposes to increase personal income tax, corporate tax, real estate tax, which Minister Stanjura said is immoral to increase property tax, because most people, individuals, buy property already from taxed income, so they actually tax it twice. And who do you think is gonna pay the real estate tax? Apartment owners, or the ones who live in them? Well, the people who live in them! So if anyone thinks they're gonna tax someone's business, they're not gonna tax them! Furthermore, we have excise taxes, pension insurance and sickness insurance, including increased contributions to social insurance of businessmen. I remember that this is a big problem for the right-wing parties and the movement, and for us it is a big problem, and we say that the cost of work is one of the highest in Europe in the Czech Republic, in the European Union. Why? Because we have huge social and health contributions, every employee does it and every company does it for them. Even this government has committed itself to reducing it by 2 percentage points, but it will not. Except that it doesn't lower, he's gonna pick it up for the tradesmen just to be safe. [[12.00 hours]] The SPD's movement does not agree with these proposals, and we will make everything out of the opposition in order that this set of harmful measures is not approved in the form presented, including by presenting a number of amendments to it. So we'll talk, we'll argue, we'll say why it's wrong, but we'll also say how we would do it. We will use this situation and that moment to tell the citizens of this country that there is another way to do it. And there's another way to do it! All you have to do is look in Hungary when you look in Poland. There's just another way to do it, and it's better, especially not the way this government does it. And the last thing I have here, of course, is the DCA contract, which will be discussed at this meeting, will be discussed on 19 July. And, of course, we have a big problem with that as the only movement. The Chamber of Deputies will discuss this on 19 July the Defence Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America, the so-called DCA Agreement, which, of course, has already been agreed by the Fialův Government, which means the government of ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, Mayors, TOP 09 and others, and has already approved it at first reading. This treaty has only two readings, unlike other laws that must go through three readings, and we do not agree with this as the only movement and party in the Chamber of Deputies, we are opposed to the residence of foreign troops, any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, so on the 19th we are holding a demonstration here in Malostranské náměstí before the Chamber of Deputies against this DCA contract and any residence - whatever, once again stressing any - foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic, because most Members, the overwhelming majority of Members, apart from the SPD movement, simply do not mind and vice versa vote in favour. Our reservations against the residence of foreign troops and the establishment of bases in our territory are absolutely essential. Now let me explain one more thing, not only in the Czech Republic, but in many other countries they say that this does not actually mean creating bases. So I'm telling you, it's not going to be called a base, but it's going to be some kind of property where foreign troops will be staying, in this case the United States of America's troops. So I have such a great analogy. It looks like a goose, it hugs like a goose, you can't say it's a goose, but it's a goose. So that's just the way it is. The same bases, which, of course, must not be said to be bases, are in Ukraine and other countries. So, yes, the government will convince you it's not a base, so it's just real estate. Look at Slovakia. Slovakia has a so-called interpretation clause that there will be no US military bases in Slovakia, and is now voting in Parliament or on the Slovak National Council that they will be in Myjava and Sliač. And yet he has an interpretive clause that there will be no bases. Sure, they won't be called bases, but there will be soldiers of the United States who will use two places for their needs, Sliač and Myjavu. It is the same in this Treaty on the Czech Republic. There are eleven seats, I don't have them written here, but there are eleven seats that the United States soldiers will use for their stay in the Czech Republic, but they won't be bases. Look out, they won't be bases! And when someone says that, this government will argue with you that they are not bases. Okay, they're not bases, they're real estates for US soldiers in the Czech Republic. This agreement is disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, it is not reciprocal, it is a framework, and it mainly does not contain an interpretation clause as in Slovakia, which states that this agreement does not create conditions for the establishment of a US base, even in the future. But we have already said that the Slovak Parliament - Sliač and Myjava - will vote on two places now. But it's not a base, beware, please remember, it's not a base, but there will be soldiers of the United States - in Sliač and Myjava. We believe that such a crucial matter must be discussed only on the basis of the results of the national referendum. That is precisely why all governments that are the symbol of this flag, which was here - the European Union - are afraid to adopt the law on a national referendum. What if we wanted to vote on something such as the residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic? What if we wanted to vote on the fact that, as Mrs Pekarová told Adamová that she wanted to adopt the euro by 2030? Well, why don't we, as citizens of the Czech Republic, want citizens of the Czech Republic to decide in a national referendum on these matters? Well, that would be a huge mess! Do you know how they would kneel down in Brussels and Washington on Petr Fiala and on that government - that's such a good concept - to make no such thing happen? Well, that would happen! So we're just saying, that's what citizens have to decide about, not the government from which two ministers sit and listen. [[Secretary Wark is resisting the fact that there are three of them.]] Three, sorry, sorry, three, thank you, Minister. So that is what the citizens of the Czech Republic should decide. The idea that in eleven Czech locations objects are being built in the direction of the United States, which will be in a regime similar to the embassy - but beware, they are not bases - so we do not have access there, we do not know who is there, what is behind the material and what is being done there, that is totally unacceptable for us. And it's also out of Czech jurisdiction! Imagine that in Slovakia, the Slovak Attorney General spoke out against those places where there will be foreign troops - not bases, but places where foreign troops will be - that his duty is to defend the interests of the Slovak Republic and that these are places outside the jurisdiction of the Slovak Republic. He appeared on the Czech National Council, he wanted to speak, he wanted to tell the Slovak Parliament and they didn't let him speak - the Attorney General, so that people in Slovakia didn't happen to hear that it would be places - not the base, I repeat - which would be outside the jurisdiction of Slovak law and Slovak law. [[correct: Slovak]] This is unacceptable for us. The agreement cannot also be terminated for a period of 10 years and cannot be legally challenged. We also have a number of other reservations about it and will introduce them as part of the speeches of our Members in the House. The SPD movement says, I repeat again, a clear "no" to any, any foreign troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. Finally, if I have touched the two colleagues who were standing here, I apologize to them, but I, Madam President, did not really know their names by your means, but I will look at them immediately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u37	Thank you, too, Mr President. President Alena Schillerová will now speak with priority rights, and after her is Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by discussing the biggest one-off tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic with the topic of the most recent - that is, how the Ministry of Finance led by Zbyněk Stanjura really cares about tax collection. Holiday summer days have fully revealed the fatal consequences of the reprehensible abolition of electronic sales records, resulting in the tsunami of non-cash payments. It is the same everywhere - from the promenade in Karlovy Vary to the camps in Sázava, Vranov or at the music festival in Ostrava. It's getting harder to pay with a credit card everywhere. Cash only, we don't take cards. You will receive such a response these days at the boat rental, mini golf equipment, while buying food in the local shop or paying for the menu in the restaurant. Without cash, you just don't get a cup of water. And from my own experience, I can confirm that this is definitely not just a trend in some small local facilities, but paying by card is becoming a problem even in the few of the renowned restaurants in the centers of our big cities. [[12.10 hours]] It is clear that the current approach of the Ministry of Finance to tax collection is that it absolutely cannot ensure a reasonably level playing field on the market. Under the false pretext of the proclient approach, the Financial Administration first got rid of its most functional tools, so to speak, to lose the pulley and thus - exactly according to the plan of its Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura - made it impossible for all who play cleanliness to stand up in a competitive environment, because it is only in favour of those who cut their sales, only those who prefer to renovate the terrace instead of paying taxes, a cheaper changeling or override the competition of the chef. And standing in such a competitive environment, admit yourself, must be an increasingly challenging task, if not a superhuman task. One can't resist the feeling that this is the very attempt to survive, which forces one establishment to write chalk next to another on the "cash only" board. And the worst part is that the person who caused this domino effect has the incomparable audacity to come here to the Chamber of Deputies with the idea of raising taxes by 73 billion a year. It's exactly the same as if he came to town hall to ask for a higher grant to operate the zoo director who had previously removed the entrance terminals and released all the cashiers, or if he had come to his parents to ask for a higher spending teenage child whose bills and coins are falling through a hole pocket right on the sidewalk. You wouldn't give anybody an extra crown. But the Minister of Finance, Zbyněk Stanjura, is working here today, who wants to take a tax credit to students, families with children wants to take kindergarten fees, property owners want to be punished by doubling real estate tax, but on the other hand, he can't even collect existing taxes. Not by chance a look at the treasury implementation of the state budget this year is just for the harsh nature. They're going to look at VAT. The execution of its collection is a whole of 5 percentage points lower than last year. And the total tax collection? This is the worst in at least ten years - except, of course, for the year 2020, when the economy has been closed and the maturity of taxes has been shifted. Specifically, as of 30 June 2023, the Financial Administration was able to select only 46 percent of the annual tax recovery plan, although the June standard is 48 to 50 percent. The sub-quota collection of all tax titles means 40 billion less revenue than would correspond to the current date. 40 billion, ladies and gentlemen, to the middle of the year. And what does the Minister of Finance do? Instead of realizing how the monstrous problem caused its ideological stubbornness and began to address it actively, it systematically builds a timid organization from the Financial Administration, which, in an attempt to please journalists, forget that its main client is none other than the state budget. So, instead of actively analyzing data from control reports, fighting carousel fraud, solving the decline in reported sales or projects such as Tax Cobra, the Financial Administration is dedicated to the solar agenda of the tax graceful summer - nothing against tax gracious summer - and celebrating the release of its own exemplary control-analytic teams. And that's what the state budget looks like, too. That's exactly what I'm saying, unfortunately. And I speak of this as an elderly tax collector with a lifelong practical experience in the Financial Administration. When you, ladies and gentlemen, were jamming electronic sales records at the end of last year, the Minister of Finance cursed himself with an increase in traceable cash-free payments. Well, judge for yourself how this trend has been coming true in the Czech Republic in recent months. It's not filling up much, is it? On the contrary, we monitor the objective loss of payment terminals from Karlovy Vary to Ostrava. Businessmen everywhere return one terminal after another. And the result is that in everyday contact with the exception of supermarkets and e-shops, we experience the renaissance of cash live. And it gets worse every week. But to close it down. The main task of the Ministry of Finance is to draw up a state budget and collect taxes. As we can see today and daily, neither Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura can. Financial management is part of the state's critical infrastructure. In my opinion, Zbyněk Stanjura's approach to its functioning is slowly fulfilling the features of the state's critical infrastructure, and the reason for this is nothing more than the positive relationship of his parent to the grey economy, as well as gambling. It's built into the genetic essence of the ODS itself. I therefore refer at least to ODS coalition partners. Ladies and gentlemen, through Madam President, do you really find it okay to generate CZK 40 billion of taxes not collected in the first six months of the year? Do you find it okay for the Finance Minister to devastate two key agendas of his resort in a year and a half - devastate the competitive environment in the HORECA sector and partly retail - and then come to the Chamber of Deputies with the idea of the biggest tax increase in the country's modern history, which will cost Czech households tens of thousands of crowns a year? It will send the economy into recession and take away the whole generation's standard of living and many and the future. I really don't think it's normal, folks. Please ensure that a thorough analysis of the cash only phenomenon is carried out on public budgets and that adequate measures are taken to return to proper tax collection, and only then, if necessary, have come to the Chamber of Deputies with any proposal to increase the tax burden on Czech businessmen, households and companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Now the Minister Jurečka is registered, whom I do not see here. Another registered priority right is Vice-President Klára Dostálová. You have the floor, please, and then Mr. Babiš is signed in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. This week, it will be in the sign of the points presented by five coalitions, in the sign of "I show water, but I drink wine." The government misconstrued the budget and instead of looking for savings on its own, it prefers to reach into the pockets of the citizens of the Czech Republic. The state budget for this year has been drawn up to artificially reduce the deficit. The National Budget Board has already pointed out accounting tricks in the range of over 120 billion, but the exministri finance agreed on them - and now I am not just talking about our ministers, but also Mr Kalousek, for example. [[12.20 hours]] In particular, the point is that 15 billion of extraordinary pension valorisation has been forgotten, plus 30 billion are missing in the budget for planned transport investments, so the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is to take a disadvantageous loan that cannot be seen in the state budget deficit. On the contrary, the budget envisages, for example, the sum of 50 billion from the Modernisation Fund, whose drawdown is not legally prepared. And most recently, under the weight of the budgetary forecast committee's opponents, the Ministry of Finance had to admit that because of a poorly set windfall tax, it would not collect the required billions, out of 100 billion they said they would collect at least 60, but it would be less than 40. This must also be added to the 7.5 billion that Mr. Finance Minister Stanjuru takes from health insurance companies because he sent the health system into red numbers by reducing the payments for state insured persons. The state budget thus became a mere piece of paper. And what kind of solution does the government want to find? The result is that the government has nothing left but to touch pensions and thus reduce the standard of living of our seniors. Furthermore, the government increases taxes, which will affect especially young families, seniors, businessmen, but basically all, because the basis where the Ministry of Finance and the entire government wants to take money is to increase VAT, abolish tax exemptions such as kindergarten, discounts on students, discounts on husbands, wives, raise taxes on real estate, increase taxes on businessmen, raise taxes on legal persons, touch sickness, raise highway stamps. Here again I will remind you of the classic model of the Czech family, we will look at the specific effects of such a package on the Czech family. Novákův's husbands have two children, Mr. Václav is a businessman, Mrs. Helena is a fashion manager, lives in apartment 3+1. So let's say that we have these specific impacts, because we're still talking about tens of billions here, but we need to look at the situation of a particular family. Mr. Václav in this family will pay CZK 23 000 for higher social security contributions, CZK 3 000 for double property tax, CZK 800 for motorway stamps, CZK 3 000 for higher VAT on public transport, crafts, holiday accommodation, such as fitness, water or heat. CZK 17,300 will be paid to the kindergarten to the older of two children. Mr. Václav loses CZK 47,100 a year. Now let's take a look at Mrs. Helena in this family. Mrs. Helena will pay CZK 3,000 more for sickness insurance, CZK 4,000 less for her employer from FKSP, for example for rehabilitation - she is on her feet in the store all day, CZK 17,300 will pay for the kindergarten fee for the second child, CZK 800 for the highway stamp, CZK 10,000 will be lost due to cancelled benefits from the employer and for higher VAT for water, heat, public transport, cosmetics, hairdresser will pay at least CZK 3,000. Mrs. Helena will lose CZK 38,100. Since both children have closed construction savings, the family will lose another CZK 2,000 to their reduced support. The budget of the Novákův family will therefore be CZK 87,200 each year. It is also necessary to think about whether Novákův will still have to reduce culture, not go to any restaurant facilities, Mr Novák will probably not have any beer, whose price next year, according to the innkeepers, will cross the 100 crown limit - otherwise this family would be at 100,000 one-two. When we look at it, we should say that we need to do something about public finances, but it is definitely not alarming - and saying something about bankruptcy in the Czech Republic is completely nonsense. When we handed over the government, we had the sixth least-indebted country within the EU, the Fialův government jumped to eighth place, but we are still the eighth least-indebted country. Perhaps each of us would say, the government, if it wants such measures from citizens - and again I say, they are not negligible numbers, they are a completely normal family in the Czech Republic, which will lose at least 80 to 90 thousand crowns a year - should first of all touch on spending, which means starting with savings on its own. So, what's the deal with the expenses anyway? We read in the material - and you can all open the material yourself, page 247 - where the first savings are on subsidies of 54.4 billion, so we would all say, yes, the Minister declared that, of course, subsidies distort the market, and therefore, for private persons in particular, subsidies should not be. But what do we find out from the material? It's not about private persons at all. The money wants to be taken by the Ministry of Regional Development, for example 2.8 billion - and here I have to point out that the Ministry of Regional Development has from the state budget all its 3.1 billion agendas and 2.8 is basically their entire budget. And the subsidy programmes of the Ministry for Regional Development are for the reconstruction of public buildings such as kindergartens, schools, various dining rooms and so on, local communication, pavements, sports grounds, it is really a public infrastructure that serves all of us citizens of the Czech Republic, so there is probably nothing left of these grant titles. Not to mention the fact that we are in a huge housing crisis, where the Ministry is expected to help, for example, with funding to invest technical infrastructure, or the readiness of land for housing. Another source you will find in these subsidies is that 2 billion education will be taken in the framework of grant funds - it is certainly not a private person again, but the public sector - and the second breath the Minister of Education will say: Well, you will take 2 billion from me, but I will borrow 45 billion. Somebody call this responsible budget policy? Can anyone even imagine how much government debt is worth? In all this, the Minister obviously talks about this loan and the government will approve a loan for the National Recovery Plan of CZK 137 billion. I had to ask about the budget committee several times before we learned how much it would cost to operate this state debt. How much would you say? We're counting every crown here, and then we're going to take a loan where only to operate this debt is to pay CZK 50 billion, at least CZK 50 billion! To make matters worse, of course, we also deal with the fact that on the expenditure page it saves on the operation of the state, it talks about the amount of CZK 11.2 billion in the material. If you look at how much the state budget is, how many ministries and ministers we have, so if you share that amount, 11.2 divided by 17, it's going to be roughly 600, 630, 650 million crowns per department. This is not really big money, when, of course, citizens want to choose such huge billions. Maybe the ministers could think about traveling to Japan and Korea with their entire ensemble from the ministry, where one trip must go to at least 4 to 6 million, if it isn't thrown money out the window. But the government is not considering these savings at all, not at all, of course it is not seeking any symbolism towards the citizens of the Czech Republic. It's much easier to reach the elderly on their pension, lower the standard of living. I'm sure you're also told by desperate pensioners that they just didn't have a chance - when we look at the times they worked - to make some big savings on old age. It is necessary to calculate with this that, of course, today, if young people can save on old age, they have much more options, but of course in communist times it was not like that, salaries were very low, pensions are very low, and pensioners were grateful to our government for trying to valorize pensions, for trying to contribute to them. [[12.30 hours]] Another savings that the government was talking about were 9.7 billion on salaries. But then we learned that the government wasn't going to lower the number of officials, that it wouldn't even lower its salaries. So I wonder if it is real at all to achieve these savings, which the Minister of Finance is talking about. At the same time, the government has approved an unlimited number of political representatives, has an incredible army of advisors, and of course all this is paid out of taxpayers' money, from the money of Czech citizens. And then you can't be surprised that citizens are quite right to ask why I have to pay it all from increased taxes? Why do we have to have so many ministers? What's the logic? Why can't we slim down the state apparatus as such? But that's not the way the government goes. Indeed, the government is going to increase money to the state budget from taxpayers' money, or citizens of the Czech Republic. But that's not all. The government, of course, also sharpens its teeth on the municipalities, on the budgets of municipalities and regions. We must realise that we have negotiated a huge amount of money from the Structural Funds or, in general, from European funds as such, up to 970 billion, which, of course, depends on the exchange rate itself. Well, what's written in the material? Well, the government will take money from the municipalities to co-finance the projects. I'm really going to go into this when we discuss the robbery tax package tomorrow, because there's no other way to call it robbers, because the government should especially show symbolism in the fact that it's going to start saving itself. Then you could explain to the citizens of the Czech Republic a certain need that is definitely here. We do not question it, but it should go slowly, gradually, so that we do not get the Czech Republic into some economic crisis. Because if you look around a little bit, since we already have a Minister for European Affairs, he could see how it goes all over the EU countries, no one is going in such a drastic way to stop the economic growth of their state. About pensions. It's very interesting to see how it's going to be, because the government always says it's going to be tens of crowns tops, and there's going to be a reduction in certain groups. Well, it's not exactly that. If you're 60+ today, it'll be hundreds of crowns a month. If you're 50+ or 50 or less, it'll be thousands of crowns a month. And I'm also referring to today's media, where it's beautifully defined how many seniors are going to lose. So basically the whole point of this week is how to beg the Czech nation, how to reach into their wallets and how to reduce our quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. The President of Babiš is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens. Pro-government propaganda is running to the fullest, and I've learned - and I've always learned - from the media what I'm going to do and what I'm going to say and what I am, and I'm always in shock. And now the headlines - here I have that "The race that lasts longer starts," writes the most lying server, a pro-government server that recently said how great our seniors are, which goes on to poor Michl, pulled the campaign and who lies from morning to night, and its owner, who has the company in Cyprus and doesn't pay our taxes, says that a third of our people, citizens, are actually fools and young people are totally stupid because they claim to want money for their work, so that's the server. Another headline: "The package in the House awaits infernal obstruction, there will be a lot of us, warning the opposition." Who said that? Who said that, please? I'd be trying to explain when the obstructions were happening, and I'm not gonna be doing any reconnaissance today. I don't want to sit here after 7:00. And we seniors, that, my colleague, the mayor here, he sleeps here sometimes, but that's not criticism, that's normal. [[To MP B. Liberty.]] I want to, too, and I should be on the front page of Blesk that we're sleeping, so... [[With laughter.]] [[President: Mr President...]] Through you, yes. [[President: That's one.]] So we seniors go to bed, I'd like to go to sleep at 10:00 tonight, 'cause I get up at 5:30 and practice. I have to take care of my health. Mr Benda, through Madam President, I am not going to build, I will speak to the point, and he simply suggested that we be here overnight. After all, Madam President, last time I saw a video like this, it says that one day the House's meeting costs 4 million - billions first, then it was repaired to 4 million. And we don't want to burn up the expensive electricity here, not because the oligarchs have had enough. They had 100 billion profits from electricity and tens of billions. So I'd like it if we didn't act after 7:00. And here the media has actually created an atmosphere - and dear fellow citizens, don't believe that we want to explore. No, we don't want to reconstruct. We want to tell them our opinion, our expression, our proposals. And of course, journalists have no memory. Here is an article - and these are, of course, Parliamentary Leaves - but Mr Rakušan would say that this is what I do not know, does not speak nicely about them - so Mr Fiala said in 2016 when they blocked the EET 457 days, that the minority also has rights and that is based on democracy, not on the principle of majority law, and that "a minority can sometimes also use the above-standard instruments, which belong to democracy, and they are obstructions" says the Prime Minister. He said that as an opposition leader. Even then, however, Fiala divided obstructions into the right ones to delay the EET for 236 days and the bad ones to use the ČSSD when the ODS was in government. So they're all set. I know there's a pickle for journalists, there's no President Zelenskyj anymore, there's nothing to write, so everyone was looking forward to this, there's obstruction and sleeping bags, and I don't know what. But I don't want any obstruction. I just want to say that the best thing would be - and I am based on the Prime Minister's saying that the package will still change, that there will be some amendments and that it will actually be seen some time later in September, and we even learned from tripartite that together - not together, but that tripartite, simply employers and trade unionists will agree on some amendments and that they will give it to the Prime Minister for assessment - so I think it would be best if we all took a leave of absence in July and August and returned here in September. There's no deal. The five-calibers aren't clear about this. Tripartite will suggest something - by the way, we've never had such a servile tripartite towards the government. And the main thing is: this government doesn't have any programming statements, none, so it should do it again. I evaluated it twice. We did it six months in our government, every minister had a job to do it. What was accomplished was green, what was to be fulfilled - orange, red - non-compliance. [[12.40 hours]] So I think this government, no one here really knows what it wants. Nobody knows what he wants! And this government came to Strakovka on December 17th, 2021 at 12:30, we waited there for red carpet, flowers, we handed everything in bows. And most importantly, we handed our country over in great shape. In great shape! So let's remember where we were: the sixth least indebted country. Where are we today? Eight. The seventh safest country. Where are we today? 12th place. We're down five rungs. Yes, the Czech Republic is no longer safe. Crime, Russian-language mafia, illegal migration. Crime is rising. Read the NCOZ report. Prosperity? We were the ninth most prosperous country. Now we're down to 12th place! Inflation? A colleague of Havlíček has already mentioned this - the third worst. So that's the result of this government that's been there for 571 days. I have the government's programming statement, the first one. Of course, that's basically all nonsense, because none of it happened in those days. And then they made it a little bit better. We colored it, but it doesn't work again! So I don't understand why we're here. We should go home, an unpaid vacation in July, August, and have the government come in on September 15th with a new programming statement by the government, which will be binding by October 2025, and ask for confidence again. Let him ask for trust! I mean, they rule without one -- I'm not gonna talk about the program they had, where they lied about everything. I already think that the people on the networks, the comic performances of the Prime Minister, and I think they're all laughing about it, but of course there are pro-government media that still tell people how great it is and how it's been done and how we're amazing and how everything works. The decline in real wages - 8.5%. Lowest birth rate. Lowest birth rate! Yes, I already talked about it. Janulík has an overview of why people or families do not have or do not want to have children, yes. And the Prime Minister here talks about it and says, "What about our grandsons? But there won't be any grandsons if there's something going on here, taking people's money, seniors, employees, young, students, just everybody! Apartments? Mr. Bartoš promised to build apartments. Now he's telling the young to go into the rent, okay? And the young wanted to have their own apartments. So the Prime Minister here says it's important that we can't live on debt. Yes, I agree. And why is your debt rising? We had a clear consolidation for five years, we had numbers, we counted everything, and basically it's all nonsense, the whole austerity package is complete nonsense, it's completely useless, it doesn't bring anything, it just increases taxes. So no obstructions, ladies and gentlemen! By the way, it took 457 days at the EET, and the construction law has surrounded the opposition, and don't forget that there were five clubs, and those breaks, last time they wanted to take the break away, and Dukovany, you've built 400 days, 400 days of Dukovany! And now you're living off our work. From our job! Bypasses, Imperial Spa, Thermal. Everyone had a good time in Karlovy Vary. Thermal, who privatized the ODS, didn't pay for it, and we sued for 20 years as Treasury. Yes, we fixed that with Mrs. Schillerová for a billion, so I hope everyone enjoyed it. Even the Imperial Spa we fixed up, and the two sections of the highway, and the three melted and so on. So I'm just always shocked when that lying pro-government server is talking about the Dukovany again! So, Dear Editor, you can already write that in the finals of Temelín in 2012, Rosatom and Westinghouse were under the rule of these parties, which are in the government. He was in the finals. But you're not gonna write that, and you're still gonna lie about Havlíček, who was just assisting Čez in their security clearance! Stop lying! I understand that you're completely wiped out of what's going on, that you didn't see it coming. But the lies from morning to night are unbelievable! So I thought the media would be objective. Well, they won't be objective! Each medium has its owner, each owner has some... And paradoxically, everyone here can perform and say what they want about Mafra, who, yes, writes against Babiš, often. Yes, she's independent. Try asking other media if they'll write about any of their owners, such as the OKD that we saved, and now it's pouring money into Mr. Stanjur. So these aren't obstructions, I'm not gonna obsess, I'm gonna talk to the point, I'm not gonna give a speech, I'm gonna browse these things, and I'm gonna try to explain to this incompetent government what she should do, and what I would do if I were there. So they're not obstructing it. I think it's pointless for us to sit here at night, until morning, I don't know why. I'll explain to you again the pension obstructions. It was about time. We fought, and we spent our pensions where you robbed a pensioner of CZK 7,000 this year and another year by tens of thousands to keep it from going through. And Mr. President, who promised to be president of everyone, had a historic chance of bringing it up. If he brought it up, you wouldn't have had a chance to rob an old man this year. And he didn't do it. I udělatn't, unfortunately. I'm afraid so! It could have been his only gesture where he could have had some effect on people feeling that everyone's president is here, not the pro-government president. Ridiculous money. Ridiculous money! You're still making excuses for Ukraine. I understand that your foreign policy is only Ukraine. And I was just asking how much it costs to compare it. We had the government's programming statement, which we have since the beginning of our government on 13 December 2017 until the end of 17. 12. 2021 were filled. They've been filling and evaluating. Covid came in and we had a GDP drop of 5.5 percent, that's 82 billion. And we gave the companies, the employment and all 370 billion! That's 450 billion! That can be counted. And we're done with less debt than you left us in 2013, but of course your media won't write that. By the way, if we were to give tens of millions of crowns to the media, which then write nicely about you to promote eIncompetent or eRecipe? That's our work! You gave tens of millions to the media! Unbelievable! Why? We only gave to the media when we fought against the covid. So it's incredible, but everyone's cool, because of course everyone's happy, because the post-November mainstream still works and works great. Absolutely great. So the government's code statement for covido, yes, I just wanted to figure it out - the impact of 450 billion. You can count it, you can count it all. How many do you have, Prime Minister? So we've already learned that 40 billion will go to Ukrainian refugees. Now the cost of weapons is still rising. I don't know how much it is. Even if it's 85, it's still not 450. So your problem isn't Ukraine, you're just making excuses for it, you're still using it to cover your inability to run this country and make people a better life. A better life! What's being presented is just an attack on people. And here's my headline: Battle for cuts, sleeping bags. Again, I've already made my point. I think maybe somebody can understand that it's not obstruction. My colleague Nacher tried to explain it, yes, that explains it, it's not obstruction. We want to get to the point. And again, you guys should download all of this, come back in September, present a new government programming statement. [[12.50 hours]] It'll be two years in September 2023. So you'll have two years behind you, you can come up with that new budget that you're going to argue about some other time on September 29th at night, the five-wheelers, and you'll have two more years ahead of you. So maybe people deserve to know when you haven't said anything for two years what you're gonna do. You were just lying. You normally lied, but brutally. That's normally incredible, and I admire the Prime Minister for being so discreet, he's all the lies, and the videos, when I see what he said at the congress and what he said before and before the election, you have to laugh. But great admiration, Chapa, I say. I couldn't do it, lying like that. So your government program statement, try writing it again, stop lying about the covid - you didn't have one, you didn't have any covid. [[Member Babiš shows written material.]] Stop lying about inflation. chudák Michl, who used to give me that counselor a little bit of time, went to meetings, so yes, that editor, no, that was another editor, that was the great hope of the Lidové noviny, then betrayed me, so he is unable to understand when our government reduced VAT 21 per cent to zero on energy in November and December 2021, that we had negative inflation, that we ended up with inflation in December 5.3 per cent. And Fiala banished the inflation at 19 percent. He had bronze in Europe. Bronze. Bronze! And he cashed out how much money? So 2022: 140 - and what was it, Mrs Schillerová, through Madam President, how much was it? [[Mr Babiš turns to Mrs Schiller]] [[Mrs Schiller did not follow the question.]] By the end of June, what is the return on inflation? [[Mrs Schiller is uncertainly off the microphone: 130.]] That's it. Well, in short, my fellow citizens of Stanjura blew about 220 billion and gave you nothing. And no one knows where his money is. But they're so lucky. [[Ms Schiller off the microphone: 130.2.]] How much? 130.2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u43	Madam President, I would ask you not to shout for President Babiš. [[Member Schiller.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u44	She wasn't yelling, she was talking to me nicely. [[Laughter and applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] So 130.9...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u45	Yeah, we'll all be screaming, and we'll imagine something different. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u46	But I said through you, didn't I?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u47	Yes, very good, Mr President, I commend you for that. [[Laughter and applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] We've had some training here today, so you've learned your lesson. [[I learned it in the old days.]] Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u48	So it's 130,2, 130,9, well, 250 short, fellow citizens. You paid so much in inflation, yes, when the Prime Minister, this government, yelled at me for this budget. And of course, even the inflation could have been defeated, and we were saying it here on February 18, 2022, that they were supposed to put a stop to electricity prices, but this government simply can't hear us. So the government's programming statement, when you read it, I don't know, at least the government should say it doesn't apply anymore, or what it actually pays. That's why I say, write it again, everything that's written here is wrong. [[A Member of the Babiš is in writing.]] In fact, you know the difference between the government's first programming statement and the new one, for example? "After managing the covide pandemic and subsequently social and economic recovery through related problems" - related is cut - "global economies escalated by Russia's aggression for Ukraine." Yeah, sure. But you can count it all. A growing, jumping energy boost, and who's to blame? Well, of course this government. Windfall tax? Totally wrong. Please, since the founder of the ODS B, and that was the most horrible two in the government, the founder of the ODS B, TOP 09, says to the newspaper that... I'm looking for the article... that you should have bought 100 percent of ČEZ for 200 billion, it says here: "Kalousek would have stood up to ČEZ for 200 billion." I say 250, too. And then you can help people and the economy and employers. But you don't want it. Instead, you're preparing some kind of mischief where you want to split up CEZ, and it will certainly end the way it is in your style, that the state will come in short, that the minorists will make money again, yes. Then I don't understand why you won't do it here. A man who truly hates Babiš, founder of TOP 09, ODS B's, says so. You don't believe that? No? I don't know. So that was your problem. Energy, inflation, you just didn't make it, and I'm calling you again to write a new government programming statement, because the most terrible thing is that you don't even know what you're going to be presenting in the budget here in September. No, so now that one of the Pirates MPs has made a proposal to reduce the rent to the presidents, which I wouldn't have a problem with at all, you obviously don't have it completely harmonised there to make the right statement. So everything's wrong. Everything's wrong. Your results are completely catastrophic, and it's your happiness that you have - you have a serven tripartite. I have not yet experienced the union chief thanking Mr Stanjur on Czech Television for finding time for him. The chairman of the Chamber of Commerce is a member of the ODS, isn't he? He's an ex-boyfriend here, isn't he? From Olomouck. We will not say that, Mr Faltýnek, through the President. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] We're not going back to the past. Well, the chairman of the Association of Industry is the one who oversaw that Lakshmi Mittal took 52 billion dividends, ArcelorMittal, and now he's the chairman of the largest housing cooperative. Well, those are the apartments that Bakala stole. This is the label that praises the Prime Minister from morning to evening, how amazing he is in Europe. I just didn't know what he did for us there. So the situation is that I don't understand why we're discussing this. They should talk it out, so the Prime Minister here says that we can only be successful if we can respond to changes in the world at once and in quality. So I don't know what the "now" unit is. It's 570 days for the Prime Minister. That's probably his unit. My unit "now" is a second, he has 571 days about. And then he says, a recovery package. I think the greatest health for all of us, for the citizens of the Czech Republic, would be to leave this government immediately. [[Applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] That would be the most healing for everyone, and it would be holy peace. And then the Prime Minister says: "We need a recovery package to get the Czech Republic back in shape." Yeah, but she was in shape when we handed you the key. She was in great shape in December 2021, and we had a hell of a covid. We couldn't actually function normally for two years. We couldn't invest, we couldn't do anything, we were just saving. And if we didn't, we have 15% unemployment here. And the Prime Minister here says they were talking about export support. Do you still remember the Czech Export Bank, how it was leaked during the ODS government? How many billions have gone in there, unacceptable debts? Ninety? A hundred? In fact, I have never heard the words of the Czech Export Bank or EGAP from this government. And the Prime Minister here says that they were talking about the situation on the labour market. Well, it would be nice to figure it out, and those who, uh, take doses and don't want to work, and there's plenty of them, shouldn't have those doses. Those who come here from Poland for a visa and work here black because, of course, in Poland they get a visa without any problems, so someone should force them to pay their contributions. So the Prime Minister says that "the hearing was factual and very reasonable and we found a consensus on many things" Do you understand that? The Prime Minister says he found a match to the tripartite. So I'd like to see the employers and the employees who are happy with this government. But it looks like the tripartite, which, of course, how the unions and unionists work, well, they get the 40 million a year, must be nice. But they got it for us, too, but they treated us for the benefit of the employees, now they're acting in favor of the government. [[13.00 hours]] I read an article last time that someone was criticizing when someone got an expert abroad, what a huge problem it is to make those papers. It was an article that discussed that there was no money to be dealt with at the Ministry of the Interior. Well, everything's great, tripartite. I didn't even look at the press conference, and they were talking about an austerity package. And I don't know, the austerity package: one day the Prime Minister says the austerity package, then it's healing, so I said - the health. How would that work out? We agreed that the unions and employers would try to agree together on proposals for adjustment of the recovery package, and then they would send a coalition through me for discussion. So I don't understand why the Prime Minister won't wait for it, unless he already knows that - and I think he knows - he's just going to send them somewhere, and now he's just calming them down... or let's wait for it. Of course, the government isn't talking to us, so they're talking to tripartite probably because tripartite is happy. So ask those employers and businessmen who pay the highest prices of electricity and gas in Europe how happy they are with the government, how happy they are and how happy they are now when they raise taxes and, of course, social services and taxes, how happy those employees are. So I think it's completely unnecessary to discuss. We should get back to that in September, if we're clear in five and we're clear in tripartite. Then the Prime Minister here was talking about digitization and information, which, of course, is great. I think we can finally digitize the people who are staying in our territory. What occupations they have, how many benefits they take, what they do here, when they're here. I don't know if we have it or not. I think it is in the context of the wish of the European Union. The Prime Minister says: "The consolidation package is part of our project Czech Republic in its form" - I don't know if it's funny or I don't get it - "if we couldn't step on the brake, our grandsons would have paid for it." Well, then, our grandsons. Last year, 10,000 children were born less, this year will be even worse. Why is the birth rate declining significantly in the Czech Republic? Because people are just scared. Janulík will explain. He's got 3,500 clients, he had 100 births last year, he's got 80 births this year. Why? Because young families don't have housing, young families are afraid of what's going to happen, because this government, this crazy government, of course, the media, their pro-government media, is just haunting these people. Yes, they're afraid of war, yes, they don't have housing, they're gonna take their kindergarten fees now, they're not school capacity. I remember Madam President - and he is no longer here, Madam President has left - as she told me at the budget in November 2013 that Kalousek does not want to give her money for the capacity of secondary-Czech schools and to make some budgetary change. Then, when I became Minister of Finance, in June, I did the project, 26 billion we invested in municipalities, in new primary school capacities. And now? The MMR has a grant title where the overhang is 4 billion. So what? And Bartoš instead of yelling at Stanjura screaming - Mrs. Černochová is not here - to get the money, so of course nothing's happening. So the birth rate isn't, so please, it would be good if you didn't talk about what our grandsons are and how it's gonna be. Then the Prime Minister says he simplified the entire tax system. Well, I don't know how, you have three rates. And here he says, we're discounting items that no one can do without. So what did he mean? Books? I don't know today, I'm reading books, I haven't used those audiobooks yet, but I know that a lot of young people only have audiobooks. So what are those items that no one can do without, the discount? He means the food, the ridiculous 3% that no one ever checks because you don't understand the business. You don't understand how business works. You don't understand how businessmen work. So what, then, what's getting cheaper? Yes, so: a significant reduction in the next few years' deficit. This government - the Prime Minister here says: "The health package is sober, balanced and prosocial." And I would like to ask the Prime Minister what the package is economical about. What's he economical about? I don't understand. If you want to save money, Prime Minister, you should be the first to set the example, so you should release 100 people at the Office of the Government immediately, maybe 120. You should stop - they all talk about it when they go to the Office of the Government, what a feast there is, how great it is all. There was water and coffee for me. Yeah, they got something from the government sometimes. When the government was at 6:00 in the morning, there was nothing, then there was something wrong with the socans. We were saving up. You want to save money? Then stop the travel agencies. People who don't bring a new business on a foreign road for entrepreneurs, let them sit at home. Can you release all the unnecessary counsellors they're there for? I know those advisors are the ones who came mainly to the pirát - it's there - who failed in the parliamentary elections, so do the counselors. The Minister of Education had 16 advisors, that's incredible. And the best thing would be if you released all members of the five-caliber government. Do you know how many people that would be? KDU-ČSL has a great tradition in this. I remember those meetings with the Sobotka government, how I didn't even understand why they wanted to give us the Deputys. And then I actually figured it all out the way it is. So I know it's change, snacks - you should be saving, right? Or a salary freeze. 20. 9. 2021 our government has discussed a five-year salary freeze, okay? And you did everything you could - and I once again suggested it as an MP to freeze the salaries - but you don't want it. Now come with something... You should've cut it down. Here's an article, a big comparison of politicians' salaries. [[He's holding a sheet of paper in his hand.]] "Czech MPs are better off than German," writes a Jiří Vachtl on April 3, 2023. So you were supposed to set an example, save money, right? So what else do we have? Counselor. Stop buying IT. Why are you writing new orders at the Office of the Government? You don't need any. And yet I'd forbid it on all resorts, all resorts. Counselors. The state has always done outsourcing, which means that things that you could - and a normal businessman does insourcing, so the maximum he does himself - so he's outsourcing it, of course, various consulting firms. And here's an article about the refreshments, how great there's a company that's eaten everything. The expenditure for this year's Presidency in the Council of the European Union amounted to CZK 2.3 billion, fellow citizens. And what's the result? Well, the result is that Mr. Rakušan has prepared the shameful, treacherous... migration pact that there will be no cars with internal combustion engines and that citizens will pay for emissions and cars and so on. This is the result of your presidency, a total fiasco. This means nothing positively to the Czech Republic. Those were the sandwiches, like I always said. But we've prepared for it. Castle and all that - 2.3 billion, right? And the result? Yes, of course, they will officially instruct me again that when someone has a Presidency, they should not do anything for their own country. But in reality, it is contrary to those who write things at the European Council that were and were not. You guys never sat there. I was sitting there, and I was there when Mark Rutte, the one who finished yesterday, yelled at the Romanian President: "We should never have taken you to the European Union." He yelled at him, "What do you want when you have 5 billion euros a year?" [[13.10 hours]] So please, if you write again that Babiš doesn't understand anything, then really keep it, because we've done something within the V4. In 2018, we cancelled quotas, 2022, 2021 we refused. We fought taxonomy. We have won 980 billion money for the Czech Republic, 42 billion extra, because we have blocked the European Council. Yeah, that's a tough business. Journalists can write whatever they want, because that's the way it is. Of course, I do not agree with what Mr Okamura says in the debate on the European Union. I think it is necessary to change the people of the European Union, to expel those MEPs who are also stealing there. How many times have the Belgian police held back how many millions of euros, control of the EPP in Brussels, Qatar Gate, corrupt Hohlmeier. Yes, these fanatics, these green fanatics who want to destroy Europe, they want to destroy us, they want to destroy our way of life, our culture, they need to be driven out of the European Commission by that lunatic Timmermans who insists on Green Deal. Where is Europe headed? Then finally make China cut emissions. Our government has said that China will be treated according to its attitude towards Russia. I understand that. How is it that imports from China to Europe are still rising? Why do we have ten times as high imports as exports to China? So do something about it, not just bullshit and some kind of declaration, right? As far as I know, we should have the same policy as Europe. Some countries in Europe will tell you some things, and they will have a positive balance in real terms with China and America. By the way, the European Union doesn't even have a treaty with the United States yet, while we're at it. So, of course, these things are a complete disaster, and the balance sheet of this government is absolutely overwhelming! I'm still going to talk about some things that are absolutely incredible, but it's EET. So the Karlovy Vary Festival, yes, Thermal, they need it for ten days. The first time I saw it, everything, and we fixed it. The big theme is EET. The ODS is still telling us that EET didn't bring anything. Well, of course it brought up to 20 billion into the budget, up to 20 billion. The whole history of EET: we, when we ended up second in the 2013 elections, didn't even know what to do, and we asked people if we should be in opposition - a crazy, stupid idea. Then we went to the government, and the strategy was not to steal, not to abuse office, not to take friends and EET. Yes, a croatian pussy. Mr. Honek from Vítkovice Tours, he told me and I was there. If anyone doesn't understand that when the topic is finally on the table today and the ODS is trying to say, "No, it doesn't bring any money, then I'll explain it to you again." Whoever doesn't give you a receipt can manipulate sales. When it has lower revenues, it has lower corporate tax, it can pay people in caches - we've seen it as a covid, it doesn't pay social security, these people have low pensions, it doesn't do health. Yeah, he's got black money in his pocket. It looks like it's everywhere now. It's not just about restaurants. My strategy was to collect taxes and reduce taxes. Under our governments, we have reduced taxes by 504 billion. Greetings all innkeepers to remember that on 1 December 2016 we introduced, if I remember correctly, EET and reduced taxes - VAT on food, soft drink and then later on beer from 21 to 10 per cent, but also tradesmen, hairdressers and so on. Yes, we wanted everyone to pay. As workers come to this, 4.6 billion employees who pay tax every month and no one asks them. The accountant does not come and ask: Would you like to pay the tax this month? No, the vending machine. That would be fair. And now, of course, EET's been rigging this place, mantra, full of crap. I think the only economist who understands that, or I hope he understands that, I think he understands that, Mr. Skopeček of the ODS, of course, holds the bass when he says that EET doesn't, but that's what the numbers are for. Officials are supporting you, that's statistics. So you take people's money, and on the other hand, you immediately cancel EET, up to 20 billion a year. So how did you start? You took seniors, discount on fare, students, health care - 14 billion now - and so on. So these are all things that are very clear. To get back to the European Union. This survey is very interesting and it is based on this, at least it is based on the fact that when you look at statistics, you see a huge decline in the trust of Czech citizens towards the EU. Do you know when? Exactly on the 2015 and 2016. That was the massive migration crisis. Yes, and I'm convinced that now it's because only a lunatic can invite smugglers and illegal migrants to Europe, only a lunatic. After everything that's happened in Sweden, Germany, Austria, the assassinations, illegal migrants coming, armed, attacking those guards, I think that's it, this crap, invitation. Those who did this are responsible for the hundreds of deaths drowned in the Mediterranean. That's your work. Don't tell me the Libyan guard. We wanted Libyan guards... Again, Prime Minister, find out where the 32 million euros Vé 4 paid. The Czech Republic has paid 8.5 billion. We should have bought those ships. It's a fight, it's an organized crime, those smugglers. These people aren't fleeing the war, okay? So mistrust has fallen, but we want to change Europe. The YES movement wants to change Europe and wipe out those bureaucrats, those lunatics from the European Parliament and the Commission, so that they can finally understand that they are there to serve people, not to dictate who is to win elections in which country to influence them to pay nonprofits to blackmail money. No, we want Europe, but Europe has not even mastered the basis - Schengen area, the defence of Europe at sea, yes, Frontex. Why is everyone building fences? Kyriakos Mitsotakis builds a fence, 200 kilometers. How much has Greece received on illegal migrants since 2015? 3.4 billion. When the European Council ended and the Polish and Hungarian Prime Minister blocked it - yes, they blocked, dear writers, you can write what you want a hundred times - so why did Meloni, the Italian Prime Minister, fly to Warsaw? Well, to talk to Morawiecki about how it could be solved. After all, Italy received 1.1 billion euros for illegal migration. Yes, no one has the courage to say what happened in Australia. The migrants can't sail. They have to go home, send a big boat to Lampedusa, load these people up, take care of them. Yes, that's what we said. Let us deal with them - Egypt, Libya, Tunis, Algiers, Morocco. And Erdogan? Yeah, I guess Erdogan's a good businessman. He got 3 billion euros, but he takes care of 3 million illegal refugees. [[13.20 hours]] And why don't you guys finally figure out Syria so those people can come home so Marshallův's plan is to get this country in order? I know there's a dictator, but you have to find a solution, right? So the European Union is important to us, we export 87 percent, Schengen is important to us, but we, fellow citizens, must elect people in elections who will fight for Czech interests in the European Parliament. And to the Commission - so I do not know who the government will send to the Commission for Czech interests. Because I believe that the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic are consistent with most of the interests of citizens, members of the European Union. See what Brexit looks like, Great Britain, how many people are missing? Millions, they have a problem. I understand that the Great Britain has been angry, the bureaucracy, always dictation, and instead of the European Council having the lead, and not the Commission! They're officials, officials of no-one's choice! Look how they express themselves! They're more than some president or prime minister of some country! That's what this is about. So we have clearly said as a YES movement: Let us make a referendum on migration! Why not? We were solidarity, our people were solidarity, and we supported the government with regard to solidarity with Ukrainian refugees, but it is necessary for those people to work with us, not to abuse benefits, and, of course, for some clear information about what they are doing and how they are staying in our territory. The Czech Republic has to choose who will live and live with us, okay? The fact that the Prime Minister totally failed to manage the Presidency did not do the deal and says: Yes, I want 40 billion for the Czech Republic, we took care of Ukrainians, it cost me 40 billion, give it to me. Not now that I've challenged him a hundred times to do it, within the Presidency, that was the position! Now that he's blocked something and he's still breaking up the V four... The four of them had great strength, and I'm surprised they don't understand - yes, I understand, everyone hates Orbán, but what about Morawiecki? It was a role model for the Prime Minister! Yes, even Turów kissed him, took him on the train, but he didn't learn anything from him. Why are our people still shopping in Poland? And not only in Poland, but also in Germany? Why there's DPH zero. And so on. So, a lot of things, and this government just isn't going well. Some of these things are totally incredible, so I understand that they're all obsessed with anti-babish, and of course those sectors are suffering because the hatred is huge and they haven't even understood what it is. So here's the article: "The government wants to cut tens of billions of subsidies, which the state doesn't have at all." How is that possible? I don't understand. How is that possible? He wants to save $50 billion on subsidies. An impossible task. The Ministry of Industry is supposed to save $20 billion next year, but it must not save $22 billion at the same time. So that's just a lie again. And worst of all, this government didn't create anything on its own. We left them the National Investment Plan by 2050. It's 20,000 projects for 8,000 billion. The Minister of Transport is lucky to have inherited the resort because it was prepared 300 kilometers of bypasses and highways. And now I'm reading an article, which is from the ZET server to the right: "There is no money for bypasses at České Budějovice." How is it that there's no money? There must be money! After all, the government should understand that investment means GDP growth, and GDP means a higher collection of money for people. So I'd really like the government to continue with the projects. I don't know, Minister of Culture, I asked him last time that the Imperial Spa was fine, and what about the New Scene? She's ready! What about the National Gallery? She's ready. What about Uherské Hradiště, Museum of Totality? I prepared that for you, too. That was my project. Herman and I were there in 2016. Then at least come up with something you can create! Where are the investments in health care, the 14 billion? How are things with the burn pavilion in the Royal Vinohrady, how are things with the concentration of Karlák, where is the hospital in Bohunice? What about svatý Anna? What do you do for people? There are no dentists, Minister. We had project 43 practice 24/7, guys, anytime you can go. Yes, and mental health reform. And the National Plan against Cancer. So, yes, this government, of course, has been through the media, which is why when I'm reading a weekly Oligarch here and talking about section D4 -- well, that's Havlíčkův's work -- if it weren't for Havlíček, he'd never stop. This is the first PPP project. And it's interesting that the editor: of course, there is no Havlíček or Babišův government. He's criticizing Zemanův's government, yes. The first one looked like a tunnel, but the fact that we did it all, it's not even a comma. Not even a comma! So it'll be open in December 2024 and then we'll go in private. But that's okay. I understand we were very polite. We were very polite. [[He keeps reading from the materials he brings.]] Then I've got this interesting parenting guy here. I really don't get it. Parent - we raised it from 220,000 to 300,000, we had 400,000 in the program. Now, for a year and a half, five-callices have been arguing about how much it's going to be. In the end, it's about 50,000, but even the anti-Babiš server here says Jureček's parent didn't succeed. And here today's article is: "The parents' contribution will rise, but only to children born in 2024. Well, we've dealt with it, too, but a politician has to make a fair decision." And when you read what Prime Minister Fiala said at the time, I quote Prime Minister Fiala: "I publicly call on the government to explain to the public what thought led it to such a construct as to increase the parental contribution proposed. When the government raises the parental contribution, all parents within four years are entitled to it. That is why we propose," says Prime Minister Fiala, or Chairman of the ODS, "to obtain an increased parental allowance for parents of all children under the age of four." I agree, I agree. That is the only fair solution. Support for families is crucial to the future of our country. Yes, Prime Minister, but your birth rate is dropping. You don't build apartments, you don't give a shit about people, you don't give a shit about young people, you don't give a shit about students. By the way, Katalin Novák, when I was in Budapest, told me how they had it. Students, when they have a loan, have two children, after finishing school forgiven half. If they have three children or four children, the whole loan is forgiven. Huge benefits for families, huge benefits. Why don't they do that? So the Prime Minister was challenging us back then, and we did it eventually, because of course it was a difficult thing. So this article, in stone, is carved by these words, black and white, are available on the ODS pages of the Lord's Summer of November 1, 2019. Wisdom comes from the opposition, now Prime Minister Petr Fiala. The government of YES and ČSSD withdrew from the original plan to add only new babies. Yes, and when we were in government and minority government, we were talking to you. You don't talk to us about anything at all. So I'm just saying, Prime Minister, do the same thing for parents and children as you suggested under our government in 2019. I was talking about Mr. Bartoš, he says the way out of the housing crisis is not to own the apartments. Oh, great. I thought our fellow citizens wanted to own it, and I think it's the feeling of certainty. And now the government actually says to them, "No, no, you won't own it because Rusnok destroyed the mortgage market." Yes, you kept your mouth shut, and now even when people have the opportunity to pay their mortgage early, you want them to pay their fees for it. Your relationship with the young generation: "Students will pay more in taxes. " That's the headline. Then I won't even read all the articles here. [[13.30 hours]] And a word for reform: of course, there is no reform. It's not a reform. Here's an interesting article - headline: "Jurečkův's expensive savings. The state will lose billions to abolish an extraordinary increase in pensions." Well, try to read it. You're not doing any reform. You just want to take the old people's money. You want to change the formula that we introduced for the benefit of the people, and you want people to retire later. That's all. That's all your reform. I was talking about the cache, it's really incredible that it's everywhere. Here's the article: "Do you have any cash? Too smůla. There is an increase in places where you can't pay with a card." Experts are talking about the gray economy, but I don't think the Minister of Finance is okay with that. Those other promises of yours... I don't know when the pipeline from Poland is going to be, if you lied then, the Polák didn't want it, so hopefully you guys will do it now. Of course that's nonsense. You live only on our work. The threat of poverty in 2022 - that is our work - is the smallest within the European Union. The smallest. The Čech have record savings, banks are starting to fight over them, we've been through their offers, okay? They've saved 900 billion for us. We worked for people from morning to night. You're just wondering how to rob these people because you've been through the propaganda. Here's an article: "Propagandists Undercover" - but I'm not gonna read it, because I just want to tell people that don't trust the pro-government media. Don't believe it! There's too many of them, and they're trying to force things that are lying, false to you. When I called on the Prime Minister here to ask for the money for Ukraine, this is May 12, 2023, refugees cost 35,8 and the Prime Minister said that the government would calculate costs with Ukrainian refugees and then submit an account to the EU. He didn't say when. Well, let's hope it's soon. So I don't want to keep up much longer. I was impressed by the President's opinion a moment ago. Title: "Ukraine has a chance at territorial gains only until the end of the year," said Pavel at the NATO summit. Okay, you're hearing me. So I don't know now what to do with it? What does KRIT say from Mr. Rakušan? I read here at krit - peace as a Kremlin propaganda narrative. Sure, someone might say that the president wasn't talking about peace, because today the Home Office is actually saying that the word peace is being abused by some communists, some organization. But we've always condemned Putinův's aggression. And today we really live in a time when we're afraid to say the word "peace"? I said that before the presidential election, and I got my ass kicked everywhere, didn't I? Peace, how dare I? What peace? We want a war? What do we want? Well, Mr. President is brave, and he said that... I don't know, I've been talking to him myself for about 40 minutes, and I have to say, he knows his way around the army, NATO, he knows these things. And if he says that's how it is, well, then... And it goes on to say: "The Ukraine will probably have to negotiate with Russia on the basis of the achievements achieved by the end of this year, according to Czech President Petr Pavel from current political and military circumstances. Pavel spoke about the situation in Ukraine on Tuesday at the start of the NATO Summit in Vilnius. According to him, it has to be realistic that the window of opportunity for Ukrainian territorial gains will be closed more or less by the end of the year." That's what if I said, I'm dead, I'm totally dead. Where are the million moments? Do they still exist? To make it two million, right, on Letná? Well, I recommend the krit. Peace as a Kremlin propaganda narrative. So, fellow citizens, you, who do not want war, risk - luckily, they liberated the teacher - but the new totalitarianism that we have here, that you may have a problem. So I don't know what they're gonna do about it, but I'm sure you know how it's gonna turn out, because Patrik Nacher has his double standard. I used to shoot my videos last night, so short. I was dealing with a crap. It would be good if Mr. Worst Health Minister in the history of this country had finally banned this drug. It is forbidden in Poland, Slovakia. It's crap. It threatens our children. So it would be good if... If the government had finally banned it. I don't understand why... Even the pirát are up for, even if they want legalization, but they're up for it. So I don't understand what's waiting for? In conclusion, let me see if I have... a government decision here, I've already talked about it. Czech Post. We see what's happening at the post office. Some mayors have replaced it, which, of course, is very, very positive. By the way, as part of the investigation, when I was Minister of Finance, I flew to Brussels economics, economy!, I always sat the tenth row, that was the first row for business class. And I started flying the special as Prime Minister because of security reasons. Prime Minister, this is such a good idea: let them fly, let the economic ministers fly to Brussels, not with a special - and save. That's another one. So these ideas that you could save because I did it, and I just have it in me that I had income all my life or most of my life, of course, so I had to save, so that's another suggestion. This government has completely forgotten about investment. It is a great pity, a great pity, because it is slowly cooling down the construction market. And who buys apartments? Only the rich and our young families simply can't reach it at the current mortgage rates. Sport - the Prime Minister doesn't even care. I had it under me, and we were done with the 10.5. And the fact that our people and citizens of the Czech Republic like sport, they want sport that the sports infrastructure is very neglected and that we did not make it during our reign... But I'm sure sports deserve at least 20 billion a year, not 5.2, as you've got there now. Specifically, I will not be able to comment on the tax package, which my colleague has already spoken. I think all reasonable people who want the right information know what a disaster this government is, what it means to us, that it's actually destroying the booming country's trajectory. We were nine, now we're twelve. So it would be good if the government actually wrote the government's new programming statement, so that we could even know what they were planning. It's not normal for them to surprise us every month, and we didn't even know what they wanted. One thing's for sure, they don't want anything good for our citizens. Nothing good! They're lying! It's a policy of lies. They're still making excuses for something, either our government or Ukraine, and they haven't really done anything for people. So I repeat, it would be good, Prime Minister, for you to write a proper government statement, but true, true!, only for two years, only for two years, so that the public, if the media doesn't care, might know what you're planning. But now I know it's not good for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u49	Since you, Mr President, have been the last to sign up for priority rights, I'm just going to ask if I've forgotten anybody who would apply for priority rights? This is probably not the case, so we will proceed to vote on the whole proposal for the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented to you in writing. This is President Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u50	Mr Vice-President, given the dignity of people running into the hall, I will ask for a three-minute break because we did not know how long the opposition's speeches would be, so that peace and quiet could be reached here and we did not have to break our feet in the hallways. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-000-000.u51	Yes, thank you. There's a request for a break, so I'm declaring a break until 13.43. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.40 to 13.43 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 13.43 o'clock, time for a break has passed. We'll continue the negotiations. Let me reiterate that we will now vote on the proposal for the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Yes, I've logged your application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your ID cards. In the meantime, I'll load an apology. From 12.49 to 15.15 pm, Mr Kobza apologizes for reasons of work. We will wait until the number of Members of Parliament is settled. Once again, we will vote on the whole proposal for the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 3, 176 Members were voted in favour, 97 voted against 79. The motion was accepted. And I'm saying that we've approved the agenda for the meeting. We will now proceed to the first item on the show:
