ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 458/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The proposals for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 458/2, which was delivered on 11 June 2023. [[1 July]] The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as House Press 458/3 and I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u2	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I originally wanted to respond with priority rights, but it seemed more meaningful for us to open up a specific point of this amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance at third reading so that it would not be just a fight of empty phrases, babbling and inability to respond in the general debate, even with factual remarks. So that's why I let my priority right pass and I'm responding now. Let me remind you here in the introductory words of this amendment of the law, which we are now to discuss perhaps in the coming hours or days in the third reading, of the basic principles of why this amendment is presented here. I have repeatedly explained in both first and second reading that there is a draft pension reform, a reform that has a large number of concrete measures that lead us to stabilise the entire ongoing pension system so that it is up to good pensions for children and grandchildren of current pensioners, so that the pension system in 2050 is not in the annual deficit, which will be greater than CZK 350 billion at today's prices, because if we do nothing, this will happen, so it will happen that this year we will be around 80 billion of the deficit of this system, and every year that deficit will gradually increase until the biggest decline, which will be around 2050. So we are doing a pension reform that is necessary, which has been postponed for many years, which has been talked about for many years, and which the vast majority of the public also expects politicians to implement, that it is simply necessary to take measures that are not at first sight pleasant for everyone, but if we are serious about the future and we are thinking about the future of our children and grandchildren, then we need to move towards these changes. I also thought that the entire main package of pension reform will be discussed by the end of this year and then both chambers of Parliament in the first half of next year, but since we have a specific situation here, we do not want to repeat the year 2022 and the huge wave of people leaving early pensions, a situation where often people who were not in the situation that they really needed to be so overloaded, tired, can no longer endure in their current employment, so they are going to retire early, as it was in previous years, and last year a large part of people left, because it was also more significant than in years before or before they will ever be in the future. This situation has always occurred or can occur only if there is an extraordinary valorisation of pensions in a given year. And since last year is a great lesson, we decided to pre-schedule this proposal for this amendment, which regulates two areas that I have also repeatedly presented, and this is an adjustment to the conditions for obtaining early retirement entitlement, where we are changing four measures, and also an adjustment for proper valorisation as well as for the situation of extraordinary valorisation, where there is a fundamental guaranteed rule that we will always valorize pensions on inflation, fully on inflation and one third of the growth in real wages, which was a rule that was here long years before 2018, which guaranteed that pensions in the Czech Republic grew and that pensions were able to adequately cover the provision of a sufficient standard of living for our seniors. I definitely have to repeatedly reject the claims that were made here at first and second reading that the pension system over the last more than 20 years has been plus minus in equilibrium. It's not true. I explained it the other day. Since 1996, the pension system has already had a total deficit of CZK 450 billion. So we can't cheer ourselves up here by saying that plus or minus has been good until now. It hasn't been good yet either, but what's coming in the coming years, it's going to fall quickly after 2032, is a huge warning for us not to resign, so that as responsible politicians, we know that the problem is here. The problem needs to be resolved and we need to respond to it. And this measure and this amendment, which we have here in the third reading, are one of the important steps that needs to be taken to stabilise. It's not even as it sounds here that we're building an old one against a young group or a particular group. All we need to do is to be objectively aware that none of our grandparents, our parents, or we are saving our pensions in advance during our lives. Our contributions and contributions from our parents and grandparents have always served to pay the money to those retired, i.e. those parents and grandparents of the productive generation, at the time the money was paid to the state the following month. This has been the case for decades, so it is and so it will also be in the future, based on the ongoing system, which will get into trouble at a time when the birth rate will decrease significantly, when the birth rate is below 2.1 and when we will also have a significant increase in life expectancy and when a young generation will also start coming to the labour market later than usual in the past. All these facts that I have now named have become more significant to us over the past 30 years. After 1990, the birth rate dropped significantly, and over 900,000 children were not born in comparison to the period before. The length of life is extended, which is positive, which is certainly what we all enjoy in society, and I think this is a reflection of how the standard of living and health have improved significantly, but it is also an objective fact that one fifth of children today have a delay in taking up the first class. We have been back here for several decades of nine-year schooling instead of eight-year-olds, we also have the fact that we have less than a tenth working today compared to the generation of our parents, when half the population has been working within 20 years. These are all important factors that need simply to be taken into account, and that is why we are doing pension reform. We are doing it precisely because we do not, because we are putting young people against old or retired parents, but precisely so that the system is able to function balancedly in the intergenerational solidarity and remembers today's 40s, 30s and 20s. Then let's say that if we were talking about pension reform, we're dealing with the second and third pillars here. The experience with the second pillar is behind us, I think, when the reform failed at the time, because it was just dealing with the second pillar and not dealing with the most important issue on which the entire pension system is based, and that is an ongoing pillar. And today we are dealing with changes in the ongoing pillar, which is the carrier of the fact that the system will actually work and complement positive changes in the third pillar, so that we support the individual way of supplementary pension insurance, so that the State can contribute more to this form of support for old-age security, so that it can adjust the rules, in order to really match the fact that the money that people here will have at their disposal with the state support, to really serve to promote a good standard of living in old-age. [[12.50 hours]] Information has been mentioned here that we do not come from current data and that there is no exact data. So all the essential data to know that we need to do pension reform and all the essential data to see how we're supposed to set it up, and we have that, we know that. These are the facts that have happened - some of them have become and are indisputable, such as the area of demographic change over the last 30 years, the birth rate change and the outlook for those years to come is quite clearly predictable today and we are working with these data. It is sad for me, of course, to watch that, in the past, the statements made by politicians in particular for the ANO movement, who had the government's responsibility and then expressed the key parameters of possible changes in the pension system significantly different from those expressed today. I understand that, of course, and I was as a person myself, as a politician both in the government role and in the opposition role, and today again in the government. And I have to say, such significant 180-degree turnovers, I didn't think we'd be able to live here, we wouldn't be watching. And I have to say I'm sorry, because those statements that fell here at the time that Andrej Babiš was the Finance Minister and then Prime Minister Alena Schillerová was the Finance Minister, so if we took the statements then, we would actually be very close to the idea of what the pension reform should look like in the proposal that we're proposing. I will be delighted to be able to have more rational fun with these things in the coming weeks and months, because I think that there are also things that are indisputablely positive, which are in this pension reform, which I think must also be perceived by the opposition, such as clear support for the appreciation of parenthood and motherhood. For the first time, the pension system will really systemically appreciate that people have the courage, have the love, have the desire to raise and educate and support the education of the future generation, which will be the productive one, that is the key measure that supports this through the form of a family assessment base. This, I think, is clearly a positive thing, a voluntary common assessment basis for husbands or partners, a thing that strongly supports the fact that these people share the household together, some of them have higher ones, some of them have lower incomes because of, for example, ensuring the functioning of the family and caring for children, and that we will give these people a really transparent, fair opportunity to voluntarily share the annual assessment base and, consequently, their pensions will be calculated once. That it will help significantly women who are statistically widowed earlier, these are clearly positive things again. Of course, the fact that we will also make a positive adjustment that is more conducive to widows and widows is a clear answer to the particular practical situations that we face in our lives, even in people who then ask not only for me but also for my predecessor to alleviate the hardness of the law, so I think that it is a step in the right direction again. The fact that the family assessment base will really be positively appreciated not only by motherhood and parenthood but also by caring for a person close to us, the enormous emphasis on the fact that we care about social services, that in the future people will be able to take care of their parents, grandparents, their children, their loved ones in the home environment, if possible, is a huge step in the positive direction. The fact that we are also going to be able to define individual challenging professions, where there is a really negative impact on human health, when people are physically wear and it is undisputable that we cannot better protect human health in their job position, that we set this up in the pension system, is a thing that is positive, is right, is fair. The system really needs it for decades. It wasn't, we've already set it up with paramedics and firefighters today, and we're going to complement those clearly defined demanding professions. These are without discussion measures that I think every rational person, whether from the coalition, from the opposition, whether he is an employer or a trade unionist, must perceive that, of course, this needs to be realized. Yes, we are also doing steps that mean strengthening on the revenue side of this system. This means that we are also making an increase in the minimum levy rate for self-employed people, but they have been doing it for the fourth and the next year, we have it as our main activity and we are putting it at a level similar to the value of the minimum wage contributions. And I think I'm saying this as a guy who started a career as a businessman in college who knows how hard it is to get into business, he can stand it, who's been doing this for 12 years. And I think it is appropriate, however, to simply say that it should be - the levy - corresponding to at least the value of the minimum wage. And we're breaking it down, the gradual increase, within three years. But at the same time, we also make it clear that these people's average income will then increase by CZK 4,000 a month. So it really is like a step that, in turn, leads these people to then also - they too have dignified and significantly higher pensions in the future than they have on average today. Yes, we also deal with the negotiators because when we look at the development of the last ten years - for the agreements to carry out work and for the agreements to carry out work, the so-called DPČs, they remain at some constant level in terms of the number of these agreements and the size of the volume paid for these agreements. And when we look at the DPP, the labor agreements, they have grown significantly both in terms of quantity and volume. And if we let this system go on without any adjustment, what will happen to us? It will logically happen to us that companies that are very good at optimizing personnel costs will be transferring more and more people to agreements on the implementation of work, or to the CFI. And then our social system, as well as our health and tax system, just won't be able to function. This state will have a huge problem in the future with such a trend, in fact, to be able to cover the costs that are borne by these systems and from this collection of insurance premiums. So that's why we're going to take those steps where we say, yes, we're going to keep the agreement so that the negotiator can work here at that limit, but we're going to start watching the cumulation and then we're going to start making the social security contribution. Among other things, what showed us the situation in the covid, when we saw in the covid that people who work for the agreements suddenly remained without funds, were not entitled to the infirmary. So we really need to balance the systems. We also need to look at the revenue page, which is what we're doing. At the same time, we are also taking steps that lead to a relatively rapid pace of increase in the level of both the new pensions and the pace of the valorisations that, in recent years, the previous government has not taken fully considered steps. Not that you don't want it, but we have to have the resources in that public finance budget, so at the moment, if we're surplus in the long run, let's just take these steps. But we are long-term deficit both in the social pension system and in the public government finance system. That's why we're saying, yes, we're going to slow it down a little bit, but the current pensions will still be fully audited for inflation and 1/3 growth in real wages. And these new pensions will also grow at a very decent rate, with the average pension value increasing by approximately another CZK 10,000 over the next 10 years. It's a prediction. So it certainly doesn't apply here - or as someone here says we want to take someone's pension, cut their pension, and so on, that's a thing that's really not true, and I can't agree with that. I can only allow myself to make a brief statement of some of the statements that have been heard here in the last three and a half hours and will therefore be very telegraphic. A lot has been said here on the subject of inflation and expensive food from the mouth of President Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement. I think that if we look at the results of the entire Agrofert holding, which today is the most important player in the field of agricultural commodities and an important food player, so if we look at the increase in turnover, the increase in the economic result, and add the subsidies, I think that if Andrej Babiš wanted to, he can also say in a significant way, I will retain some of my profits, which may have been sufficient for me in the past, and I will not pressure myself to make this kind of profit for Agrofert holding. I think the data is fairly clear and public. When we look at the question of the mentioned Čez, which was raised here, I will comment on it - even the previous government could solve the question of the redemption of ČEZ so that there would be a 100% share of the state and did nothing specifically for it. That's why I'm glad that then Karel Havlíček got out here and said, unlike his party boss Andrej Babiš, that logically he can't blame the government, because they didn't do much themselves, or in that spirit the expression sounded. When we look at the question of inflation, which was so often mentioned here, I think that most renowned economists, whether they are economists, who are sometimes more right- or left- or right-oriented, are clearly saying that the beginning of the inflation rounds was a question of poorly targeted aid at the time of the covid. The fact that we've been paying off money to businesses, to multinational chains that have closed their stores here, but that they've been online, that they've been paying off support for casinos and the like, and when a huge amount of money went into the economy. [[13.00 hours]] The SAO also made it clear that a large part of this money did not go to the targeted meaningful support of those who needed this support in the case. I must say that as far as the savings of the state that has been criticized here are concerned, we have clearly taken steps that have brought back the number of civil servants under the civil service to the value of 2015. We really have the so-called white collars in lower numbers today than they were during the previous reign of Andrej Babiš. It's not even bragging, it's stating a specific number. If the budget has been criticised here, I think that some here who said two, three months ago, and from the opposition their statements that there will be a deficit of 400 billion or more, they are probably very disappointed now, because it is obvious that we will be able to keep the budget - the deficit around the value that we have planned, the government is taking concrete steps for this, both austerity and in terms of strengthening the drawdown of European funds. So it's really very real that we're going to be somewhere around the 250 - 295 billion deficits. On the issue of support to public sector companies, I have listened here to many opposition politicians during September, October in the autumn of last year, how companies will be released, how companies will be closed, how gas will not grow, how unemployment will rise, I could perhaps quote those people more specifically here, none of this has happened. None of this happened, businesses didn't discharge, businesses didn't shut down operations, gas we managed to secure, prices fell to values today before 2022 and the beginning of the war in Ukraine, and the situation is stable. Among other things, because the government took those steps. Maybe it would be fair to say, maybe it wasn't always as fast as it could have been, but simply by government measures, by ceilinging those prices, by setting support for the public sector, households, companies, the situation is stable today. The Czech Republic has the lowest unemployment rate in the long term, so it is in these months, and there have been no redundancies. And there were numbers flying around about how 60 percent of companies are going to be fired. So if someone's making an atmosphere of fear and working here with fear, it's mostly some opposition colleagues. We're trying to take steps rationally. Yes, we can be better at communicating, I admit it, I'm trying, here, even in the House's attic, to listen patiently, I'm responding to those reactions. I did it here all last week when I was here on Tuesdays and Wednesdays on the subject of pensions. I will then look at the question that has fallen here, how the government supports the arrival of strategic investments. Yes, he does. We're doing our best today to get a big investment from the Volkswagen side, so there's a giant factory in Lazy near Pilsen. It is a foreign investment, which is said to be the difference, which If it succeeds, then of course in the Czech Republic it will mean a huge shift in terms of employment, development of science and research following on Automotiv and so on. I will add to this negotiations with American partners on bringing the chip producer to the Czech Republic. This again concerns Rožnov under Radhoštěm, so we are taking steps to really prove - and I can go on, there is still another meeting coming up - so that we can have new interesting investors here, so that we can really move our economy forward again, to keep that finger on the pulse of time. I must say that, for example, the indication that he is running the Economic Chamber of Politics today, so I confess, I do not know if President Babiš forgot that the previous President of the Chamber of Commerce was also a politician. It is not uncommon for President Babiš to speak so often abroad when we look abroad to the west of us, it is practically common that former politicians who have dealt with economic and economic issues do very often exactly presidents or presidents of such institutions as chambers of commerce or associations of different industries and the like. I must say that I regret the comment that was made here about the Dukovany tender, because it really wasn't fair, we had three quarters of a year of explaining by Andrej Babiš and Karel Havlíček, as the investment, when the candidates from China and Russia came into it, how great it would be that there would be competition, how we should not defend it. Then, under pressure from the Security Information Services, the Prime Minister took a step backwards, starting to say that China should not be there. It also happened in time, it's beautifully traceable, but I think the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport in one Karel Havlíček here for months explaining how great it is to leave Russia there, how Rosatom will be like a cool partner into the tender. We've been listening to the endless clock here, until Vrbětice - until Vrbětice! - they were able to change the government's view of this issue. I can only afford a few brief telegraphic notes. Then it was said here how Mr. former Minister of the Environment Brabec carried out the dams. I have great respect for Richard Brabco and I think that he has managed to set up a lot of things very well at the Ministry of the Ministry, here I will publicly say that, for example, the operation of the Payment Agency of the State Environmental Fund is very effective, and so I have a comparison and I also had the opportunity to see some paying agencies from close range, but here President Andrej Babiš has grossly mistaken himself. Because the Minister of the Environment has never prepared any dams, he can't, and he can't. It's the Gesture of the Minister of Agriculture. And those dams that are starting to be realized today, so some of them I inherited from my predecessors, there I will not take credit, and the other six we decided to implement under our government, under Bohuslav Sobotka we prepared this proposal, I as the Minister of Agriculture brought it there, and it was the participation of other resorts. So it's not that one person and one minister will do anything, but this is the gesture specifically of the ministries that prepared it in cooperation with the other ministries. Nobody's going to sell Budvar or privatize the Forests. I don't like to hear these phrases on this counter, when it's written here in the spirit that something like this is about to happen. Nonsense, nothing like that is going to happen if Andrej Babiš were a correct politician, he would never say such a thing. On the contrary, while I was the Minister of Agriculture, I actually decided on the biggest investment in the history of Budvar, we invested around CZK 2 billion in Budvar to become a real business that will be effective, which will expand its production mainly to export, because it has the highest added value there. So I have to say, I'm pissed off by this statement that goes forward -- that person knows when he says he's not telling the truth. He's saying this on purpose to distort reality so that people who don't know the context and who are looking at it, then wisely nod their heads and say - oh, my gosh, that's what he says. But that's not the truth, and it can't be. Andrej Babiš here said, and I'm really not the one who would like to define myself here at all costs, but when you're already using arguments, and Andrej Babiš here said that no one built a new hospital, so I just want to remind you that the construction of a new hospital was prepared in this country, who stopped it, was the Governor of the Zlín Region for the ANO movement when he was elected. Jiří Čunek as Governor The Zlín Region has prepared everything for the hospital to stand up. A new hospital, a very modern hospital, so let's just say that when someone here says the criticism that nothing's coming up, let's say, and my chieftain stops it. And then it'll be okay, the statement. But he can't say A if he doesn't finish B. I'm just reacting - Karel Havlíček, a colleague here, said that we were just criticizing that we were laughing, that we didn't do anything. Well, I'm not the kind of person who would laugh at someone. I'm with everyone when you come in, I'm talking in kind, I'm trying to solve specific problems, we're dealing with things, we're doing pension reform, we're doing a big batch reform, we're doing unemployment support reform, that's what's going on. Just people who can work objectively have healthy hands, legs and head, so they will simply work or not enjoy such support in the social system. And some of it is already on the run today, it's already in the legislative proposal, and some things are being prepared to be effective at the latest from 1. 1. 2025. We're making a huge shift in digitization. So please don't tell me that nobody's doing anything. Like it's really not fair. The same thing happened here - abuse of benefits and unemployment benefits. Again - if you look at the recovery package, there is a whole section that concerns a significant tightening up of unemployment aid. I was talking about it about six months ago that we'd do it. The first proposal is already there and it will be linked in the major reform of the batch system, both unemployment policy, state social support policy and the policy of benefits of material distress. We're going to connect all these three things, we're going to be able to get a lot more data, and this system is going to be a lot better able to see if there's a person who really needs help objectively, or if there's a person who's trying to see if the state can't milk it somewhere, as the people say. This is going to change significantly, and that's what we're working on. Thank you so much for your attention. I was just trying very briefly, factually, for the roughly three and a half hours of discussion that I listened to, to make a few notes and where I felt, not a feeling, but where I believe it was unfair, it wasn't true, so I tried again just correctly, without raising my voice to put emphasis on where the arguments were, where the facts were. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. Before we go any further, I'll load up the apologies. Mr Marek Benda apologizes for the whole day for personal reasons, Mr Petr Fifka apologizes for the whole day for personal reasons, from 12 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes for the whole day for work reasons, Mrs Zdeněk Němečková Crkvenjaš apologises for the whole day for working reasons, from 12.30 to 13.15 for work reasons of apologies to Mrs Eliška Olšáková and from 12.30 to 14.30 for work reasons of apologies to Mrs Petra Quittová. Let's keep going. In any case, the Minister spoke before the debate was opened. So I am opening up a debate to which I am registering three priority rights. I am aware that I am recording five factual points, but I cannot give the floor to factual remarks at the moment until someone has spoken in the general debate, because the factual points are responding to the ongoing debate that has only just been opened. And first, with priority rights, I will give the floor to President Tomie Okamur. Then, for the record, I say that Radim Fiala and President Alena Schillerová have priority rights. Since we are in the general debate, after the speech of President Tomio Okamura, I can give the floor to factual remarks. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] The debate wasn't open, and I said... Colleagues, don't yell at me, I'll explain. At this stage of reading the law, if the third reading is interrupted before the debate is open, the Minister is always given the floor before the debate is opened and then the debate is opened. It's standard procedure. That's what I did today. It's nothing special. Thank you for understanding. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have once again here today a proposal from the government of the five-wheeler by which the Fialův Government is promoting a de facto ripping-off of pensioners. The government proposes a significant reduction in the proper remuneration of pensions, a complete abolition of exceptional pension valorisations and tightening the conditions for early retirement pensions, including a reduction in this type of pension. The SPD movement clearly rejects these government proposals and we propose rejection, so my motion to reject will now be voted on at third reading. At the same time, during this discussion, our SPD Member Lucie Šafránková will propose to return the government's proposal to second reading so that we can again give room to the amendments, since the current proposal of the Fialův Government Five-Calice means robbing current and future pensioners. And the SPD doesn't agree with that. At the same time, we are presenting ten of our own amendments to this government amendment, where we demand to maintain the existing form of pension valorisation, or their alternative adjustment in the form of raising pensions for all their beneficiaries always by the same financial amount, which would be fair and would help low-income pensioners. With regard to early pensions, we propose maintaining the current setting of conditions, including allowing limited earnings when receiving them as well as for employees on a standard employment basis. At the same time, we propose the possibility of leaving for a proper old-age pension without any reduction for citizens who have spent 45 years or more on pension insurance. The SPD movement will defend and defend the social and economic interests and rights of all current and future pension recipients. We all agree here that there is a need for pension reform. However, the fundamental difference is in the view of implementing this reform. While the SPD wants dignified conditions for both current and future pensioners, the Fialův government really wants to rob them. But the road can't be that, at a time when life costs go up in a record because of an incompetent government, the government takes money away from people. We're talking about helpless people, old sick people, or even disabled people who don't have how to increase their income by their own strength. The solution is not so unrealistic, but the problem with pensions needs to be addressed on several levels. They will not help the simple accounting tricks that the desperate Fialův government is doing, i.e. on the income side, to increase taxes, taxes, and on the other hand, to notvalorize pensions, to keep inflation deliberately, expensive energy, high spending on both foreigners and self-management. The head of the Supreme Audit Office, Mr. Kala, recently said what we all feel. The Czech economy has moved from market economy to full economy of subsidy. Only between 2014 and 2022, 750 billion crowns were paid for our subsidies and a large part flew out the window. In fact, according to the Supreme Audit Office's findings, the projects were basically only 10 per cent, often only 10 per cent. Why? In the case of beneficiaries, the effort of the subsidy is beginning to wear out regardless of the benefits to the economy. What does this have to do with pensions? Quite directly. The economy has to make money for pensions, not exhaust them. Granting policy not only drains money, but in many cases weakens the economy. State income is one thing. The next one is a change in the pensions themselves. The state by pension ensures its old or helpless citizens who have complied with the state-set rules. This pension must be sufficient for a decent life, rent, food, clothing, culture and social life in old age. This pension should be at least at the level of the poverty threshold given for the Czech Republic, so that the old people do not live below this limit. What needs to be said last but not least is that, at the same time as the above, the state should start to make life cheaper not only for itself but also for citizens. For years, of course, they are energy, water and telecommunications. It is entirely appropriate to nationalize ČEZ. Water should return after criminal privatisation to the hands of cities and municipalities. As regards telecommunications, at least through a state-owned company, the State should provide an alternative service, thereby clearly and immediately reducing market prices. If CEZ sells electricity for two to three crowns per kilowatt hour, it will earn directly on the three crowns, people and companies at the same time reduce costs and people will subsequently need less social assistance and companies will have more money to invest in taxes. And the state will make money again. For many years, we have had some of the most expensive telecommunications for the previously incompetent governments. We have overpriced water, we have overpriced banking services, we have overpriced food and other goods that the world wonders, in the west they have cheaper, even though they earn more. And again, it's simple math. I say to the government, lower the prices of food, energy, telecommunications and so on, and there will be no need to raise wages or pensions so much. You help speculators twitch citizens and businesses as much as you can, and then you scream that seniors are going through too much. That's pretty disgusting, and it's all your fault, and the truth, even of all past governments. But let us go to the concrete proposals that the government is making here today. Unfortunately, the government's proposal to amend the Pension Insurance Act is neither the first nor any other part of the long - promised pension reform. It is only a series of several parametric adjustments to this law, which relate to the form of proper and extraordinary valorisation of pensions and tightening the conditions for early retirement pension and the conditions for its acquisition, amount or increase. It is therefore only about reducing the rate of growth of pensions and their real value and purchasing power compared to the current state. The government wants to reduce the growth rate of proper pension valorizations, and it wants to abolish extraordinary valuations, which will harm all pensioners and the most low-income ones. The tightening of the conditions for early retirement will, in turn, unwarrantedly hit and damage citizens who have worked hard since, for example, 17, 18 years of age, in heavy professions and have broken health, or virtually all working college students. The government wants to punish these people five times. They will shorten their period of time by how many years before they retire properly they can go early from five to three years. [[13.20 hours]] It will extend their period of participation in pension insurance, after which you can retire early, from 35 to 40 years. Tightening the coefficient of permanent reduction of early retirement. It proposes a total ban on valorisation by merit, i.e. the significantly higher early retirement component, that's amoral to unconstitutional. The fifth penalty for early retirement recipients by the government is a ban on income through gainful activity, i.e. in the rule of law, a ban on the exercise of insured employment, even if it is a minimum part-time job. The Minister Jurečka's proposal reduces the extent of a substantial part of the proper valuation of pensions from the current percentage of the corresponding half of the growth in real wages to a third of this growth and cancels the extraordinary valuation straight away. In the event of an increase in inflation of the so-called retirement consumer basket above 5 per cent in the reference period, the exceptional remuneration of pensions should be replaced by a temporary social contribution, a social benefit called the allowance paid only for a limited period of several, three to six months until the next proper increase in pensions. Moreover, this addition would not, contrary to the current exceptional valuation, become a permanent and fixed part of the pension notice, which will significantly and permanently reduce pensions for all their beneficiaries. The government compares this encore with its average nominal amount to the form of this year's reduced June extraordinary pension valorisation, which is dealt with by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore a reduction in the average extraordinary valuation of the average income by approximately CZK 1000 each time, with all the effects on the further development of the pension of each beneficiary, i.e. on the reduction of the amount and rate of growth of this pension. This unwarranted and antisocial change will irreversibly damage hundreds of thousands of pension recipients and lead to so-called income poverty, and this is unacceptable for us. The ultimate paradox of abolishing the Institute of Extra-Retirement and replacing it with a temporary pension allowance is that there could be very real situations where pensions of all their beneficiaries on 1 January of a certain year after the withdrawal of that temporary allowance could be reduced not only in real terms but also in absolute terms, i.e. in nominal terms. Moreover, because the government of Petr Fiala absolutely cannot cope with the inflation that it is feeding itself by combining its dilettantism and inactivity, real wages of Czech employees have been falling for the second year, and even, as I said this morning, real wages in the Czech Republic have now fallen by 7,5 percent because of the Fialův government, and that is the most, the highest, highest, decline in real wages within OECD-associated countries, essentially all developed countries. So even provenly in that international comparison, the Fialův government is the worst. What I am talking about here, in combination with the decline in the real wage and in combination with the abolition of the Institute of Extra-Retirement Valorisation and its temporary replacement of pension allowances, is truly a Europe-wide unique fact that, after the withdrawal of the temporary allowance, it could, in fact, be reduced not only in real terms, but also in absolute terms, in the nominal amount of the pension. So the proper January pension valorisation may be repeatedly lower than in previous years just because wage growth cannot and will not be taken into account, because there isn't. The government is to fight the causes of inflation, the rising public budget deficit, the astronomically high energy, food and housing prices, and not the elderly and their living and existential levels. They did not cause record inflation on a European scale either. Lower inflation is equal to, among other things, lower costs of valorisation of pensions. That is why the so-called pension account in the precocid period, for example from 2018 to 2019, was in quite a significant surplus. And it can be balanced or surplus again. If we have an economically literate and sane government. High inflation and hundreds of billions of state budget deficits are not some kind of downside and forever. It is just a business card for a particular government, namely the current Fialův government. In the SPD, we demand that the form of proper valuations does not change in any way and that the Institute of Exceptional Pensions Valorisation should be maintained and that inflation in the so-called retirement consumer basket should always increase fully as it has been. And that the increase in pensions in the form of extraordinary valorisation should continue to be a permanent part of the pension. We are willing to act on pensions - and this has been our constant position for several years - by a maximum of their possible future change, which would set their mechanism as fairly as possible so as not to harm low-income pensioners, which is undoubtedly happening now. That is why we have long been proposing that it should be increased as much as possible in terms of the rate of inflation and real wages growth, by the same financial amount, calculated, for example, from the current average pension, the basic component of the pension, which is uniform for all its beneficiaries. While maintaining a certain degree of merit - let us discuss it. By the way, our MP Lucie Šafránková also submits an amendment with this content. As far as the government proposal to tighten the conditions for early retirement is concerned, it is unthinkable for us to support it in any way - and we have also told Minister Jurečka during mutual negotiations - especially because the possibility of early retirement makes it too difficult and completely inappropriate for us, making it virtually untapped for large groups of citizens in the future. It also reduces these pensions on a flat-rate basis. In general, as an SPD regarding the adjustment of early pensions, we recognise the need to set the conditions for their drawing, setting them up and their amount so that the early pension is not more favourable than the regular pension, which has now sometimes occurred in high inflation years rather than because of pension seekers. For this, however, one simple adjustment of their conversion is sufficient. But the government's proposal goes much further than necessary in this regard. And let us also note that early retirement citizens in the vast majority of cases do not go because they no longer want to work or that they are looking forward to a time when monthly income falls more than half or more than half. On the contrary, this is because they can no longer work for health reasons or have lost their jobs and cannot find a new one, especially in some regions, because people of close pre-retirement age are in the most difficult position on the labour market according to a number of analyses. Or they ask for early retirement, especially recently, because they are rightly concerned about the social changes in the pension system by the current government coalition and want to save what is still possible and at least have some certainty in their life situation and in their old age. This motivation will be strengthened by this government proposal and will lead to further flooding of already very overloaded branches of the Czech Social Security Administration, which are therefore unable to deal with pension applications within a legal period, which causes huge financial and other problems for future pensioners. [[13.30 hours]] On the subject of early pensions and the alleged need for substantial changes in their adjustment in terms of budgetary impacts, I will add one very important and fundamental statement by the press spokesperson of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Jakub Augusta from the beginning of April this year. A statement that unfortunately came together. And it is perhaps, by magic of the unwanted, an argument not to support the government's procedure, but an argument in favour of the SPD's approach to this issue. According to this statement by the Ministry - I quote: "The sustained reduction and reduction of pensions for early retirees in the current form covers the costs that these pensioners represent for the State. For example, in February 2023 a total of 684 thousand old-age pensions were paid, which were permanently reduced because they were granted before retirement age. From the point of view of the impact on budget expenditure, those who have retired early and have not yet reached the retirement age represent an additional cost of CZK 800 million a month. On the other hand, for those who have already reached retirement age, early retirement costs are lower than if they had left when they reached retirement age. This saving is approximately twice as high as the pension costs paid before retirement age and compensates for potential lost social security contributions which would otherwise have been paid by early retirement persons until retirement age if they had not gone into early retirement'. End of the citation of the Press Spokesperson of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Jakub Augusta from the beginning of April this year. This is therefore a clear admission that early pensions, even at a time when they are asked for by a highly above-average number of people compared to previous years, do not pose any problem for our state in terms of budgetary balance. On the contrary. In the long run, the state is still saving, and it admits it itself. So a change in their settings is not absolutely necessary, and it is just one piece from a mosaic of government steps directed against a lifetime of honest working citizens. The same is true of the government's intention to reduce future pension valorisations. This is unacceptable to us in principle, socially and in value. The fair mechanism of proper and exceptional valuations is one of the essential features and characteristics of the nature of the ongoing pension system, since the long-term setting and non-variableness of the form of its keys are also a form of long-term social contract. Any departure from the rules in force in the pension area, which takes the form of robbing pensioners, then undermines citizens' confidence in the pension system as such, and thus its motivational role, including the willingness of citizens to pay pension insurance. And this is the phenomenon that we are witnessing on the air by the Fialův Government. This is precisely what threatens the stability of our pension system most, and it affects both its economic efficiency and the very foundations of natural social and intergenerational belonging. When we talk about government proposals for changes in the pension system, i.e. in translation of government plans for a significant and permanent reduction, and thus of plans for a permanent reduction of pensions, which the government is planning to deepen in the new pensions since 2026 by making their future calculation more disadvantageous than the current one, we must also say out loud that the pension is not, after all, a social benefit, let alone a minor from the state. On the contrary. It is a premium of its kind, which its recipients have worked very hard in decades and paid for it. And no government, not even the current one, has the right to change its conditions during the game and reduce this performance and improve at the expense of pensioners a catastrophic budget deficit and government debt that is not caused by pensioners, but mostly by the dilettantism of the Fialův government. The prognosis of the development and sustainability of our pension system, as well as its future setting and any possible changes, must be a fundamental issue of political debate today. But debates of professional, material and fair, where we will deal with matters and problems really important and tell the truth to ourselves and, above all, citizens. Therefore, we must also say that the greatest burden will be on our pension system between 2035 and 2055, when the share of people over the age of 65 will increase from around 2 million to 3 million people, i.e. at a rate of 100,000 new pensioners per year. Then, in terms of stability of the ongoing system of the situation, it will start to improve significantly again. Even with sustained demographic developments that are not ideal, and we in the SPD seek to change it through effective pro-family policies and support for birth rates in working families. This, too, needs to be said in debates about the Czech pension system and its possible changes. And don't scare citizens by not taking pensions, that we're doomed to permanently deepen the pension deficit. It's not true. It is also a complete resignation to any active economic, economic, fiscal and budgetary policy and responsibility on the part of the state, virtually. governments, any government. We are not even doomed to a single possible solution regarding the parametric changes in the pension system, which is in the submission of the politicians of the government coalition increasing the age limit for entitlement to retirement. It's not like that. Administrative and forced extension of retirement periods, as well as according to many economists and pension reform experts, not only solves nothing, but also essentially eliminates the possibility of gradually introducing a system of effective motivation to extend the period of another voluntary - with emphasis on this word, the earning of seniors, which is economically from the point of view of increasing the revenue of the state budget through the selection of pension insurance a much more advantageous procedure than a mechanical and counterproductive increase in retirement age from the table. Professionally, support for voluntary work at retirement age is called a postgraduate pension bonus. And we would implement it, for example, by forgiving voluntarily working seniors the income tax and significantly increasing the coefficient that will increase their pension every year to make it seem highly motivating. When we talk about the reform of the pension system in the SPD, we do not mean a complete change in its architecture from the ongoing system to the fund system, i.e. mandatory pension savings in private pension funds, on the contrary, we clearly reject this. As I said in the introduction, we mean comprehensive reform. In the context of setting up a pension scheme, it is worth constantly stressing that the so-called pension account or pension fund consists of contributions from those who pay pension insurance in the amount stipulated by the law concerned. And people pay these contributions in good faith, with the fact that sometimes in the future they will be able to draw their resources into the system. Politicians, even those of the current antisocial government, have no bianko check for it to get whatever pensions they like at the moment. Let's also stress the insurance moment, although pension insurance is not a 100% commercial type insurance and bears in part the features of the tax. In the case of insurance, we are insured in case an insurance event occurs. In the case of retirement, the insured event is retirement, respectively. the arrival of old age and limited possibilities or inability to work and to make a living only by working. In each insurance, it is so that the insurance benefits always depend to a large extent on how much we pay for this insurance. [[13.40 hours]] Our compensation or insurance, in this case retirement, depends on the amount of insurance we pay. The government coalition also often says that the ratio of old-age pensions to average wages is unprecedented high and requires reductions. So let me just remind you that in 1990 the average old-age pension was CZK 1,763 and the average gross wage at that time was CZK 3,286. Thus, the average pension represented 53 percent of the average gross wage. This is just to the margin and to explain to those who have a problem with the current amount of income in the average wage, which today amounts to less than 50 per cent. So 33 years after the regime change, we're not even on the numbers at the time. One more comment on the pension system as a whole. By not distinguishing between its contributors, the pension system significantly disadvantages families raising children, which are subsequently future contributors to this system. We should change this immediately, and we keep saying that it needs to be changed. Many politicians, especially those of government, are trying to suggest to us that retirement is some kind of state gift. Perhaps it is a coincidence of ignorance and the fact that pensions are de facto paid out of the state budget. It is this fact that often leads to pensions becoming, unfortunately, a kind of toy for politicians at the expense of their beneficiaries, and it is totally insidious and dangerous. Retirement workers who cannot defend themselves because of government policy are an easy target of social politicians without scruples in this regard. It is the cynicism of the roughest grain that society divides and can sometimes provoke envy or hatred of pensioners, as those who are responsible for the poor economic and budgetary situation and for someone we have to involuntaryly sponsor. This false and evil concept must be rejected with all determination. The SPD says clearly, retired people don't owe us anything, but we owe it to them. I call on the government to stop thinking about how to rob current or future pensioners. Rather, let us work on how to change our pension system and, at the same time, the economy of the state and strengthen its income and restore it to the role of guaranteeing social security. The SPD movement will not support government proposals to effectively rob future and current pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u5	It is now the turn of factual remarks. The first is Mrs Peštová, with a factual remark. The following is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. If he's not present, Mrs. Hanzlíková will be. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the Minister, and I see the Minister isn't here. In any case, I always thought that only the pirát were suffering from the obsession, but I see that the obsession is contagious, so also Minister Jurečka is adding to the Agrofert phenomenon. I would just like to remind him that Mrs Balaštíková has already sent a request in writing to ÚZEI to prepare a set of bodies where there will be a percentage of subsidies against sales, and it will be for both entitlement and non-claim, subsidies. First of all. Secondly, I'm quite interested to know what he's called here, that Agrofert has the high profits and should cut back and give the money to the people. So where are we? Are we going to dictate what profits entrepreneurs are supposed to have, that they are adequate or disproportionate? In its essence, then, if this Agrofert once - if he had behaved according to what the minister here suggested - if this Agrofert had gotten into trouble, that he wouldn't have to invest or raise demands on wages, so it's like we're going to subsidize from the state, or what the minister imagined? I thought we were living in a democratic state, that you were the ones supporting entrepreneurs. So in the finals, we're gonna tell them how much to make and what profits to make, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u7	Mrs Mračková has now been signed in, but she has checked out. Mrs Hanzlíková is another registered comment. The following is President Schillerová with a factual view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to the Minister, so I am sorry that he is not here. I would like to respond to his words about the government not reducing pensions. I really don't understand how the Minister here can say that. Only a reduction in June's valorisation meant a reduction of a thousand crowns for pensioners. There's a difference whether the pensioner gets an average of CZK 1,770, or if he gets some CZK 760 or CZK 770. It's pretty obvious here, isn't it? In the proposal we are discussing, all points are essentially sanctions. Everything is a reduction or a delay in early retirement. So far, there is nothing positive in these proposals. Another thing is that the Minister mentioned here that the government is not disrupting intergenerational solidarity. I don't know if the Minister is talking to ordinary citizens who come to me, and sometimes the stories those seniors tell me are really sad. Because, unfortunately, this intergenerational solidarity is also disrupted within the family, and perhaps I have not experienced such a period. Then I wanted to say that pensions are growing, as the Minister said, but they are still unable to cover the price increase of basic needs and the standard of living is falling. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u9	It is now registered with the factual remark of President Schillerová, followed by Mr Lang. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Unfortunately, Minister Jurečka is not here. I wanted to respond to him. But maybe he's sitting by the screen somewhere and he'll hear it, yeah. He should look at the table that the Minister of Finance presented to us yesterday on the budget committee before he starts talking about the budget flamingly and tells us how it's all sunny. I have the chart from the Minister of Finance's workshop. He already lacks 26 billion against the budget. That means 26 billion minus. 20 billion doesn't come from the National Recovery Plan. [[Minister Jurečka is coming to the hall.]] I'm glad the Minister's here. I'm showing the Treasury Secretary's chart. Then we're at 46.1 and probably doesn't have to come 20 billion out of cohesion. Then we're at 66.1. So I just calculated the numbers from your finance minister. While you're here, Minister - I have another minute - Mr. Finance Minister said such interesting information yesterday. That the 50 billion from the Modernization Fund that you put in budget 2023, but also 24 and 25, that means 150 billion for which the finance minister doesn't know each other, so he said another member of the government suggested it. Who could it have been? Who could have designed it? I don't want to name him, of course. But he said it wasn't me, it was another member of the government who suggested it. The Ministry couldn't do it. He didn't name it, that's true, but I'm thinking that, the Modernization Fund. So which department is this about? I'm not gonna speculate, I'm just thinking out loud here without naming anyone. Anyway, you all raised your hand for the con.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u11	Mr Lang, with a factual remark. Mr. Mašek is following. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u12	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to respond to Mr. Jurečka. I made it into a set of what he named it here. He says empty phrases and babbling that it was happening here. I didn't notice there were any empty stages and babbling. Nobody's scared that he's not gonna be retired or scared that he's not gonna be retired. It's completely nonsense. What you said here, we're thinking about the future of our children and our grandchildren. You think the ANO movement isn't thinking about the future of our children and our grandchildren? That we're some kind of apolitical or that we're just some kind of asocial? Then we'll move on here. I have to follow the sad statements made by the politicians of the YES movement, yeah. However, our reform is close to what the YES movement itself has proposed. I don't think that's true. Then you were talking about a voluntary family assessment base, and you didn't forget to mention with your sad eyes that the only thing missing was that you deserved that for every raised child there was 500 crowns. It wasn't just you who deserved it, Mr. Jurečka. That's what all taxpayers pay for every raised child, but you always mention it within the KDU-ČSL. This is DPP, DPČ. Definitely disagree on our part with the way you're trying to present it. You also mentioned here that you worked for 12 years - you often use that - and that you are simply aware of certain things. Yes, you've been working for 12 years. [[13.50 hours]] Current pensions. There is no reduction in current pensions. My honored colleague mentioned it here, there's a clear robbery of the pensioners about the thousand crowns, at least on average, a reduction in the valorisation. You didn't forgive yourself here, of course, Agrofert and Babiš, if it doesn't sound from the mouth of some coalition MP at least once a day, it's like it's not the meeting. So obsession with our chairman and Agrofert, who is in the trust fund. Then you said that the deficit would definitely be 250 to 290 billion crowns. Yesterday, I was recording economists saying that if you get to 320 or 340 billion, you'd be happy, and that I don't know where you get the idea that you're even going to have 250 billion. [[unintelligible]] [[Your time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u13	Mr Mašek will now speak, followed by Mrs Peštová, with factual remarks. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u14	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister mentioned in his opening speech that one of the main tasks of the government was to straighten out public finances. It's a huge task, and it can be dealt with in many ways. Of course, we need to save somewhere, and we have chosen the worst way, and we are saving primarily on pensioners who cannot defend themselves. How about cutting down on the construction of highways? Well, that would be stupid, 'cause we set up the constructions for you, you basically have it in bows, so we're gonna borrow the highways for the constructions. To limit education - there, I believe, is a hole of about 29 billion, but we will probably borrow for that too. Limiting arms at present - indeed, what is happening in the east of Ukraine is a problem, but we are sending the 48 billion we are sending there for next year to get to 2 percent of the GDP of our participation, so we weren't supposed to send them there until 2025. So that's kind of a debatable issue. And I would like to remind you, because I will take advantage of the fact that the Secretary of Defense is sitting here, that the planned purchase of the F35 - only in the purchase and training itself and the basal obligations associated with it is estimated to be 100 billion. I'm not going to mention how much the Izraelec buy it for, I know there are other arguments, but at the same time it has escaped information that the rental of the Gripen costs us 1.7 billion a year, and that in a simple translation means that the Gripens we could have borrowed under the current conditions for the next 60 years - and they serve us quite well. So my question is, while operating those F35s for 40 years is still close to four more times, that means another 300 to 400 billion, if that's the right way to go, and if we shouldn't be saving right here instead of saving up on our pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u15	Mrs Peštová will now speak with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. And that's probably the last thing that's gonna happen. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u16	Thank you for your word. Minister, I'm glad you could make it. I'm not going to repeat what I said, I'm sure you've heard it, but as far as the pension reform is concerned, as you said, it's rather a change of parameters. Some things stopped me there. You're here -- and that's what my previous speaker said -- about the elderly, that you're not reducing them, that you're trying to put the scissors that were opening up, that means you've taken the seniors back together once about valorization -- we're saying unconstitutional -- which has gone through strength, now you're taking them off for the second time, but what I miss there is a lack of pro-family politics. You once called yourself Husákův's child on social media. You're not Husákův's kid, I explained to you that it wasn't your year, it was my year, and until some 1970, 1974... but in any case at that time, the politics was pro-family, which means the birth rate would rise. And that's just missing, that's not there, that's starting young people to have more babies. This happened just in 1970, 1974, when they were, I don't know, loans of newlyweds and others and other things associated with it, and so the birth rate rose. In fact, the only thing you're really building on is to rip off seniors, those who want to retire early will hardly look into it, because they'll actually be punished twice. One day they'll be punished for wanting to go there, they'll meet the 40 years they've worked together, they can do three years in advance at the most, and then you'll punish them once more for not giving them a valorisation to follow. So I miss a lot of things there. So either say it's just a change of parameters, but don't say it's a retirement reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u17	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with a factual remark. And since the 14th hour is coming up and we have another meeting at 2 p.m., then the following factual remarks will be given a number until the next day, the day of the meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, and I would like to tell him that he is a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, that he is no longer in opposition benches. What he did here again was really beyond the big picture. Minister, you are not a superhuman, you are one of the citizens of the Czech Republic who has been elected and is here to defend the interests of citizens. To say - I don't know - the subject of Andrej Babiš, how long will it last, when people are making jokes about it today that it's all caused by Andrei Babiš, I think it's already very awkward, and I would advise you, Minister, not to tell here at this microphone that pension reform has been prepared in the past term. So you're telling me that Jana Maláčová presented a proposal for social democracy to marry seniors with extraordinary and proper valorisation? Is this what you're telling me that Jana Maláčová presented? I'm here to define this moment for you - and you know very well who the chairman of this committee was? Mrs Nerudová, with whom the 2021 debate is clear, in which she clearly states what people should demand from politicians in relation to pensions. The essential thing they should insist on is that the system must be considerably simplified and that everyone has the right to know what pension they will have in relation to the fact that they pay properly social security. And you know what else they should have? They should want guarantees that pensions don't fall. These things should be asked of politicians. There's no way that I think you're putting forward a proposal that goes absolutely against what the last retirement commission came up with. Or, then, the Prime Minister said something completely different - I mean Nerudová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-001-003.u19	Now there is no possibility for further factual remarks to be made, even if there are further entries, because the 14th hour is approaching, and we have another meeting called for at 14 o'clock, which is why all the registered ones, including the actual ones, will be attended during the continuation of this point and this meeting. Therefore, honourable Members, I am interrupting the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which we will continue on Friday 21 July at 9 o'clock. And now I remind you that in about five minutes the 72nd meeting should be opened, with priority rights before the meeting was opened, Andrej Babiš came forward. I'm just going to ask that it be possible that all technical requirements be prepared to be prepared for about 14 o'clock.
