ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-003-006.u1	6. Government bill on compensation for the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic in 2022 to persons providing paid health services /house printing 350/ - first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Minister, please take the floor. [[The Minister is preparing himself.]] Minister, please... [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Okay. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-003-006.u2	I am sorry, Madam President, those days are getting more demanding and more demanding with every week of increasing my age. Ladies and gentlemen, I come with a proposal for a law on compensation taking into account the effects of the covid-19 pandemic, in short a compensation law. It is a law that has already been passed twice by this Chamber of Deputies. I will briefly allow myself to make a proposal for this law. It is as in previous years when we want to have a legislative standard prepared, if it would have been shown that the costs in the past year, i.e. in the first three months, have led to some negative impact on health care establishments, so that we have a law that will authorise us to issue a compensatory decree and compensate for these increased costs. According to the latest data of health insurance companies, there was a significant fall in follow-up and spa care in 2022, with a decline of up to 20 percent year-on-year in some types of care, reaching a value of CZK 1.5 billion. The partial impact of units of percent is then also in hospital ambulances or medical rescue services. These are preliminary data, we'll have full data sometime in the second half of the year. For this reason too, we need to be potentially ready to use this law to issue a compensatory decree, although we might not think that this will be necessary, but we need to be prepared. That is why I am presenting this law and why I beg you to support it and consider a positive and rapid discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-003-006.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. And because I do not see the Member, please make a proposal to another rapporteur from the Health Committee. Who, please? [[A motion for a Member of Germany.]] I ask the rapporteur whether she would take the floor - but the amendment of the rapporteur at first reading must be agreed by the House. I put the vote to change the rapporteur. For Mr Svoboda, Mrs Němečková. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 41, 148 Members and Members signed in for 111, against no one. The motion was accepted. I will therefore ask the rapporteur, Mrs Němečková, to take the floor. Madam rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-003-006.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. The Minister has basically already said everything here, and I will just add that the compensation decree, if necessary, will allow the costs incurred for the covid last year to be compensated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-003-006.u5	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and we took turns managing the meeting. I thank the rapporteur for the rapporteur's report, and I am now opening a general debate on this point. I'm asking, who's joining the general debate? No one's logged in. I'm looking in the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. We should now decide on a continuation. We shall decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of this proposal. I will give you the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 350 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' In the meantime, I've gotten started. I'm gonna start the vote (number 42) and I'm gonna ask... I have noted the motion to withdraw, I declare this vote misguided. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you all to log in again with your ID cards. Otherwise, I will ask that applications be made before I vote, so that we do not have to pronounce these votes misguided. The number of Members has slowed down. I will just repeat, or I will make a motion for a resolution once again: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 350 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 43, 134 Members were voted in, 133 voted in, no one opposed. The motion has been approved. We have agreed to discuss the Houses of the Press 350 in such a way that it can be agreed with at first reading. I am now initiating a detailed debate. I'm asking, who's reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, so I conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for the final words of the petitioner, the rapporteur? It's not. I will therefore make another motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on compensation taking into account the effects of the covid-19 epidemic in 2022 on persons providing paid health services, according to the House's press 350'. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 44, 137 Members were voted in, 135 voted in, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill, and I am ending this discussion. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. And we'll continue with the next point, which is
