ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws (the Act on Investment Incentives), as amended (the House Press 409/ - first reading We interrupted this item on Tuesday, 30 May of this year in the general debate. I would ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Michael Rataj, take the position at the rapporteur's table on behalf of the Government. And now we will continue the interrupted general debate that I am opening up with this. And I also note that, before the item is interrupted, the Member has, with a factual remark, been entered... withdraws, or we will continue the general debate as Members were when it was interrupted. And I have said here that Mrs Romana Bělohlávková, with a factual remark, was still registered - she is also downloading. So I ask, who is interested in speaking in the general debate? Minister. I'll ask the Minister to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that I finally got to the microphone after a long wait and that I can answer some questions, or I hope that all the questions that have been raised here yesterday, and that we will get a little further in this amendment. I want to say to the law that the amendment was to some extent my personal initiative after I was confronted with how the investment incentive system works or to some extent does not work, and given that at this point, Babiš is not in the House, so I dare say that I have seen and judged many, perhaps more than all the others present in this hall together in my professional career. The first question is whether investment incentives yes or no, and that's my answer to the conservative part of the diaper. You know, all of Europe is based on certain forms of subsidies, incentives. Some entrepreneurs have benefited greatly from this for many years, some entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic, too, are among those who draw the most from various forms of support. But what the world has changed in recent years is that it, too, conservative America in its regulation on the reduction or reduction of inflation, the Inflation Reduction Act, has proceeded to something that we may not have expected on this continent before, which means significant investment incentives to attract as many foreign investors as possible to the American continent. This, of course, has also led to a certain degree of response in Europe, when it was for strategic projects that rules on public support could be softened to some extent for important projects. So I would answer about this: next year, the World Hockey Championship will be played in the Czech Republic. If all the other countries decide and agree to play with each other with six players and goalkeepers, then we can play conservative, we can try to play those games in five, but very likely we will lose. This means, from my point of view, whether we like it or not, that a very good reputation for the Czech economy, a very favourable development of some economic indicators, a very valuable expertise of our workforce may not be enough to gain some intention for our Republic, and therefore we will need investment incentives, albeit somewhat otherwise targeted, to continue. The second thing that has been said here is, I believe, that it was from Mr Marek Novák, through Madam President, that he does not agree with the proposal that the original proposal seems to be working for him. I stand by the proposal, and I am prepared to declare the inoperability of the figures. [[10.00 hours]] I just want to say one thing: the way investment incentives have been set up until that moment, until this law is being amended, is that, as Minister of Industry and Trade, I have to submit to the government every investment request that reaches the Ministry. This means that I have a duty to submit to the Government for a decision even such requests that to some extent do not meet any parameters, albeit with a negative opinion, which, of course, leads to a disproportionate increase in administration and agenda. The second thing is that when the government decides, it has no obligation to justify the decision in any way, which means that you do not have feedback for the investor on the basis of such a decision, why his offer, for example, has not been supported. The aim is to simplify the process, to some extent depoliticize, to take into account the new facts of the Czech economy, where job creation cannot be the main reason for such an investment incentive. When we look at the applications submitted between 2015 and 2022, we see 67 applications in 2015, 81 applications in 2016, 83 in 2017, 69 - 2018, 76 applications in 2029, 15 applications in 2020 and then 36 - 2021. Eight so far this year. And when we look at the number of approved offers, we have 57, 71, 74, 77, 74. This means, it seems that in the past, there was a high number of approved offers, with the fact that the number just after the covid and after the change of government began to decline. Now I'm going to get to the proposal and the questions about how structurally affected regions will be taken into account. The investment incentive system is divided between the law and the government's regulation. The establishment of specific conditions of aid in individual regions, including their advantages, confers the law on the Government, that is to say, a government regulation, and it is not, or can not be, the content of the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act. The amendment to the Investment Incentives Act - and here I begin my response to Mrs Vildumetzová, through Madam President - does not in itself change the support for the Karlovy Vary Region compared to the previous situation. The proposal submitted by the amendment is only procedural, it is not aimed at the real focus of incentives. Both materials, both the regulation and the law, were distributed into a proper interministerial commentary procedure, where one of the comment points is the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic itself, which had no comments on the design of the materials. The Karlovy Vary and Ustecký Region continue to remain the most advantageous regions throughout the Czech Republic within the investment incentive system. I know you are shaking your head, Madam President, it is your right, but I am simply presenting the facts here. There is the highest possible form of public support, up to 40 per cent for a large enterprise and 20 per cent for a small enterprise or 10 per cent for a medium-sized enterprise, which is, for example, 20 per cent more than the total investment can be provided in the Pilsen Region. In Karlovy Vary, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian regions it is possible to support investment by entrepreneurs regardless of their size and form of expansion of existing activities, which is not possible in almost half of the Czech Republic. For example, in the Pilsen Region, large enterprises can only be supported on the condition of the introduction of a completely new economic activity. And now one more thing to think about. Since 2019 there have been only two requests for investment incentives from the Karlovy Vary Region. I am firmly convinced that you will find a lot of arguments that it was my fault, but I was still living in a completely different country at the time. A negative impact for this region is therefore not expected. On the contrary, we strongly favour this region compared to the rest of the Czech Republic. Since the beginning of the operation of the investment incentives there have been 33 requests from the Karlovy Vary Region. The map below - I can show it this way - shows that two of the three structurally most affected regions are also among the most supported regions. I'm sorry if I forgot to answer any questions after the night break, but I hope I've at least covered the most important ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u3	I, too, thank you, and before the Member enters into the general debate, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, in fact, is reporting. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u4	Thank you to the Minister for the answers, those numbers were very interesting to me. However, the problem we have today, which we are referring to - and I will remind you of your approach to the hockey championship, five players or six players - we have a problem in the Czech Republic, and we are reminded by investors that the limit for foreign investment is not so much the investment incentives, but let's say the lack of workers. We have 300,000 job vacancies, and if I use your analogy, we can accept that we're playing at six, but if we don't have the players, we still lose. That's the first point about what you said. And let's talk about the more serious problems. I remember four years ago, when I was the rapporteur, when I was looking at those numbers - and now it's been four years, I don't remember exactly the numbers, but there was a need for the fact that companies up to 50 employees didn't receive investment incentives. So I would like this to change, so that investment incentives are not only for large companies, but especially for those small and medium-sized ones that are the engine of innovation and the engine of economic development. That's the second point. And third point: yes, I am very conservative in this, I really think that giving competitive advantages in an environment that is really competitive, and it is not really an exceptional investment or an exceptional innovation that has no competition, but giving investment incentives for companies to better attract employees in one sector in a given locality is very limited to me. I don't agree. I would like you, Minister, to tell us what volume you are assuming for the future when the decision-making is brought back to the official level. [[Time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u5	Thank you for keeping time, and I ask if the Vice-President wants to take priority rights? Because then Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová reports properly. Please, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u6	Thank you very much. I certainly do not want to in some way obsess over the adoption or first reading of this amendment, but I am interested in the words of the Minister and the comparisons. I fully agree with him that the European Union is largely built on subsidies today, it is a subsidy economy. Only I would like to think about this at least a little bit, whether it is the luckiest economic model that the European Union has chosen for itself, and whether, in addition, following the policies of the European Union in some way - I agree that we will probably find it difficult to separate ourselves from some model and apply absolutely different principles in the Czech Republic than the European Union as a whole - but I still think it is good to consider whether the fact and dependence on subsidies on the part of the European Union is the best idea. [[10.10 hours]] When we look at the way in which the European economy is involved in the world's gross domestic product, we find that this is not a wholesome development. While, in the 1980s, European countries participated in the world economy of around 30%, the following decades are falling dramatically, today we are roughly in the middle - of course statistics depend, but out of the 30 percent in that year, in the 1980s, the European Union has reached a figure of 15, 16, 17 percent, and with some other global economic centres growing much faster, the European Union's weight in the world economy continues to fall. I believe that this is also due to the fact that the European Union has abandoned what has made it a champion, that is, instead of trends that have been directed towards the free market, to more free trade, to more restrictions in the European Union, to increase regulation and to increase redistribution, with which investment incentives or subsidies are necessarily linked. So when I've heard an example of this hockey team, I would have used it further, and if we move from this European championship to the world championship, where other teams will compete against the European Union, then those other teams will do everything they can to make them stronger so they can score more goals faster, while the European team is taking on more and more heavy gear, getting more fat and slower at the world championship, Minister, Europe gets more goals than they have recently. And if we just passively assume that subsidies are simply being carried in the European Union, there is nothing we can do about it. I am not saying that we should set aside and stop giving investment incentives in the Czech Republic completely when the surrounding states do it, but at least - and, as far as I know, you have more ambition to speak to European institutions - we should at least say out loud our experience, at least the Czech Republic, which, after 1989, when these regulations, subsidies, subsidies were eliminated to the maximum extent, recorded growth. Since we've been building our performance on them, these growths have been much more below average. So I would not like us to talk in Europe about the Lisbon strategies, which were to overtake the United States and move towards rapidly growing economies, talk about them and, in addition, passively, blindly, continue to promote and promote the subsidy model of the European economy, which clearly does not bring anything good to the European economy, and because of which the European Union is losing very significantly in comparison with manchafts from all over the world.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u7	Thank you and Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u8	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to respond to the speech of the Minister of Industry and Trade. I can see why he didn't answer yesterday, because his speech affects me - in quotation marks - about incompetence, that he practically had to bring a paper from which he read some arguments here, but in my opinion, Minister, you don't know what you're presenting in that investment incentive bill, so if you were so nice and at this point you would listen to me, because you certainly know that in terms of investment incentives, incentives or firms with more sophisticated production are being supported. Isn't that right? Yes, that means that they are companies that have more sophisticated production in terms of research and other things. But if, under the current Act on Investment Incentives, the company decides to build a factory in the Ústecký Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Karlovy Vary Region, it does not have to meet this condition and it gets that investment incentive. And you come up with an amendment to the law where you want to abolish this advantage for those three structurally disabled regions, and you haven't told anyone here. This means that you will only support incentives with more sophisticated production. I want incentives to go to Karlovy Vary, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region with more sophisticated production, but let's ask ourselves: if all the regions are on the same level, where will they go, the investor? Will he go to Karlovy Vary, Ústecký? Well, he won't. He'll go where the skilled workforce is, and that's in the more advanced regions. And that's what I'm telling you and what I don't like, what's in the bill. I'm not gonna talk about who's supposed to decide whether the government or whether it's administrative. [[be?]] I don't like your government saying that structurally disabled regions need help, and you are going the other way through this bill. At the same time, I would like to read the opinion of the head of the Association for Foreign Investment, Mr Blažek, who clearly said that investments with more sophisticated production in these regions are most likely to be made clear that they will not go, investors will prefer Brno or other regions, and the abolition of the exemption takes the chance of attracting at least businesses with less sophisticated production to these regions. It is in these regions that there is still some available labour, but the quality of education is not necessary. But we just need to keep these people busy in these regions as well. So you're going to make a bill where you're putting all these regions on the same level. And my question was: yes, you say there's a law and then there's a regulation, but the regulation only says how much percent they get under the investment incentive, that means that the investment incentive has some value, size and so on, and that percentage, if it's there from 20 to 40 percent, for those three regions, it's important that investors come there, so that finally, first of all, Ústecko and Karlovarsko start to rise. And if the investors just don't show up - and we would very much like it if they were added value investors, and that's why I made the proposal yesterday to complete the proposal - yes, let it be added value incentives, with more sophisticated production, but treat them there to be primarily directed to these three structurally affected regions, and I don't have to stress, and you certainly have those analyses, that the regions that are really the most poor are Ústecko and Karlovarsko. I must say that your performance really impressed me: everything is in great order and you practically haven't forgiven yourself to use Andrej Babiš here again in any way. I think we're here to discuss laws here, to find solutions, to really make these regions better, and I think it's definitely not the bill. At the same time, I would like to emphasise - and perhaps you know it, perhaps not - but, Minister, the Association of Regions is not a reminder point, not an approved comment point. The fact that you have a colleague in charge of the Karlovy Vary Region, who did not give you any comment because the Karlovy Vary Region is an approved point of reference, that is the second thing, but the Association of Regions is not an approved point of reference, and I think that as Minister of Industry and Trade, you should know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u9	Thank you, that was Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's speech, and Mr Vondrák has now reported with fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let me react briefly to that, that is, what has now been said from this place. The transformation of regions such as Karlovarský, Ústecký and Moravskoslezský is based on the fact that we will now replace old production with new companies with added value. So I think we need to be straight with each other that I don't know how in Karlovy Vary, Ústecký, we in the Moravian-Silesian Region don't want any more production of tires or something I would call really simple production without any added value. So let's just try to get investors to come in who need these things, but please, it's not just about investment incentives, it's also about the investor getting the building permit from us, so it takes him two to three years, that's the result. So please, let's just say that one thing is investment incentives, but let's just say that these investment incentives aren't about how much money these firms are going to get, of course, ultimately yes, but they're about whether there are the people they need - and I'm saying that they are in the Moravian-Silesian region because we have one of the best education in the Czech Republic, first of all. Secondly, I think, and I will repeat that we need to create a framework for business to make it worth their while and not run to neighboring Poland, where the building permit lasts nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u11	Thank you for keeping time. I will sum up the fact that Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Berenika Peštová, and then it is up to Mr Burešš whether she wants from a point of view or to a general debate - that is clear. And, madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Response to Ivo Vondrák, through Madam President. If he listened to me well, I said that I had no problem in any way supporting investment incentives with more sophisticated production, with a value-added job, but to head primarily towards those regions that are poorest today, they have the worst GDP, and that is the proposal and unfortunately not in the contents of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u14	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to say something similar to what my previous speaker just said, and I wanted to respond with the same thing to Mr. Vondrák, through you. When you mentioned the composition of these people and the education, it is when you take the Moravian-Silesian Region, the Ústecký Region and the Karlovy Vary Region, that we are not in the same way as the Moravian-Silesian one, because you have a higher education there and you are intensively engaged in the scope in which you have it. Unfortunately, we don't have it in these parts. And the next thing you know, they're structurally affected. We've all been bowing down here for years. And if you take history, the whole republic - and let's face it, even though we were Czechoslovakia, it went to the detriment of these regions. Yeah? That's just the way it is. She pumped those counties in her essence, and now there's what's left of it. So I understand how my colleague Mračková Vildumetzová is fighting here, through you, and why doesn't it stay there? Those regions are really affected, and those regions need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u15	I, too, thank you, and the Minister will now express himself with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u16	I dare to respond briefly to my previous speakers. First of all, the issue of the impact on the state budget. Following the amendment to the Government's regulation on investment incentives from April this year, we expect the number of supported projects to be around 10 to 12 per year. Based on current data, the average amount of investment incentive requested could amount to somewhere around 120 million, which would correspond to a total amount of about 1.5 billion per year. As already mentioned, we will focus on supporting projects with higher added value, thus increasing labour productivity, thus increasing profitability and subsequently higher revenues to the state budget, because what we will be very closely monitoring in this decision-making process is the total expected cumulative yield and contribution for the Czech Republic. Of course, I am aware of all the problems, infrastructure, authorisation and so on, these are things that we also want, education, the linking of new disciplines with high school, higher education, so that what is really the biggest problem at the moment and the biggest obstacle to the influx of foreign direct investment in the Czech Republic is extremely low unemployment, which is becoming harmful because I have on this list of very interesting projects several different projects for this country, but of course the key question that investors are asking us is: Will you be able to provide us with those 2, 3, 4 000 employees? I'm going back to the subject one more time. We want to develop primarily more backward regions, because we want the increase in value and wealth to be spread evenly across the whole Republic, and the Karlovy Vary Region is the region which, in the possibility of reaching the highest possible incentive, is together with Ústí Region number 1 on the territory of the Czech Republic, which should motivate investors to look for a way together with us, how to prefer these regions. The fact that only two applications have come from the Karlovy Vary Region since 2019 is not really my problem, Madam President. And to hear in this place what was neglected in the Karlovy Vary Region, partly from the people who led the region in the long run, I find it extremely hypocritical. As far as your incompetence is concerned, Madam President, you are really on the thin ice because my competence has been documented many times over the past 20 years by a number of competitions, a number of so-called fit and proper tests, regulators, in countries such as Austria, the United States of America, the United Kingdom or Hong Kong. I don't know who tested your competence for the last time, so I'd rather avoid this discussion. As far as Mr Skopeček's views are concerned, through Madam President, I understand that we are different in those opinions. I understand his peace of euroscepticism, I don't quite share it. I always carry the gross domestic product of Europe with me compared to other continents, because I show it very often, even at the lectures I have. [[He's showing his cell phone.]] It's not quite as bad as it looks with Europe. Plus hockey, huh? I was talking about the World Cup. I was talking about the world championship to be played by teams from the American continent, the United States, Canada, and I was also talking about the fact that when it comes to investment incentives, the United States is one of those countries that decided to have the sixth player, and whether we like it or not, I really can't offer you a better association than the European Union at the moment. I'm just saying that either we play with the sixth player, that is, with the possibility of attracting a high-value foreign investor in the form of an investment incentive, or we try to play it off without it. That's possible. All I'm saying is that if you have one less player on the ice, you usually lose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u17	Thank you. I will just point out that the members of the government are not obliged to address them through the Chairs. And I conclude that in the meantime, such a small avalanche of factual remarks has come to an end. Mr Ivo Vondrák is there, then Milan Brázdil, and Mrs Maříková will also be prepared. [[10.30 hours]] I will add my apologies before the Member comes: Mrs Eva Fialová apologises within 11 hours for health reasons and Minister Martin Kupka from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons. And now, please, your two minutes in de facto, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u18	Thank you. Please, I would like to emphasise one thing here. It's not that we don't want these incentives and we're not looking for ways to help, but the answer is: how are we going to help? I was at the arrival of investors in our region when I was the dean, then I was the rector, the governor, and I am doing it to this day, because I see it as a key thing for the region to develop. By the way, this is where we could talk about why these things aren't taken into account in the RUD today. We the investors' inputs that we have to provide today, from our own resources, make sure those people get everything they need, so the question is, how do we do it? I'm not convinced it can change this law. I think it has to change by starting to work structures that worked here earlier - CzechInvest. He's here, of course, but I'll be straight with you. When I was dean, I had an investor in my office every week, as the governor, coming once a month, once a quarter of a year. That means the interest has gotten very cold and now let's ask how we want to change it. But the reason really is quite different than we think. It's not about this law. This is about setting up a system to support investors when they come to us. We've made our own system on the edge, and I think that every county that's interested in it has to do it this way. So, once again, we want those investors to walk, but I know what they want today. The first question is when the investor comes - he doesn't even care where it costs, how much it costs, but if people are available to work for the investor, and that's today's alpha and omega of all these investors coming to us. And the second thing is the one I've already talked about here, that means insufficient support and a framework for the business to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u19	Thank you for keeping up the time and just making sure that the Vice-President wants to report to a line of facts from the scene, or then with priority? Then with priority, so now there's a series of four factual. As for the order, first Mr Milan Brázdil, then Mrs Karla Maříková will be prepared, and I will give you the floor and at the same time pass on the proceedings of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u20	Thank you for the floor. Minister Síkela, without medium, I want to tell you, I don't know your expertise certificates, and I don't really care, but you haven't learned the Rules of Procedure in a year and a half or two years. You don't have to address someone when you talk about someone that I want to respond to, so you don't have to say through. All you do is address - address, Mr Síkela and so forth, that's an example. So please try to learn. It's not that complicated. And that's my technical - factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u21	Thank you for keeping time and others with a factual point are prepared by Mrs Maříková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, if you're blaming the leadership of the Karlovy Vary Region since 2019, look who's been leading the region for the last three years. I mean, it's a government in a similar composition of your five-wheeler, so sweep your way! I guess your five-caliber colleagues at the Karlovy Vary Region level are simply incompetent. Admit it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u23	I also thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is prepared by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would call the speech of the Minister of Industry and Trade the arrogance of the Minister of Industry and Trade live. Minister, I would like to ask you, if you spoke so intensely about the fact that such great investment incentives go to structurally affected regions and that other regions have the conditions much worse, then why, when after your arrival, when you came to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the first step you made, did you decide that gigafactory will go to the Plzeň Region, where you want to give a state subsidy of around CZK 10 to 11 billion? Why doesn't this investment go to the Karlovy Vary Region? Why? For what reason? As the governor, I discussed it when I was in 2019. At the same time, I would like to tell you that Mr. Andrej Babiš has succeeded in finally bringing an investor with added value to the Karlovy Vary Region. It was hard, the meetings, there were hundreds of them, but there was a BMW coming in, and now it's about to finish its work. No one came to your leadership! So you're saying something here, and you're not telling the truth, and you're still letting yourself know that you don't really care that it's our problem. Minister, you are the Minister of Industry and Trade! The CzechInvest belongs to you! So you said here: I don't care about Karlovy Vary, Ústecký, other regions. Yes, the role of the region is important there, what Ivo Vondrák said here and everyone else, but support for both CzechInvest and Minister of Industry and Trade must be! So I say again, Minister, I have no problem with you presenting a law here to support incentives with more sophisticated production, but I want them to be primarily directed to those regions that need it most.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is prepared by Mrs Peštová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u26	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to fight here - those regions among themselves, whether it's more important Moravian-Silesian or Ústecký or Karlovarský. In any case, I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Vondrák, through you. That's exactly what you said here, because you have another song. You have a technical school there, and we don't have that in the Ústecký Region or in the Karlovy Vary Region. You're potentially raising the intelligence that's going in the technical direction, which we don't have. That's why we're kicking and fighting here to - I'm not saying we have to have the best technology, but we, in our nature, are happy with the song we have for every technology that comes new. And I understand that if we had the portfolio that you have, the background, the technical background, of course, we would also have a completely different conversation here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u27	Thank you for respecting the time and final factual point - Mr Salvetr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a bit to say that I am from the Pilsen Region and there are more of us from the Pilsen Region, to turn against the words, through you, Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, who says why the Minister put it in the Pilsen Region, not in Karlovy Vary. After all, it is not only about where the minister wants to put it, and I think that the minister, and I will not defend him, is properly punished at the moment, because even in the Plzeň Region, there is no complete agreement on whether gigafactory wants to go there - they want some municipalities, if the region wants to go there - but it is essential that an investor comes there, who also chooses the territory in some way and seeks the suitability of the locality, whether transport, let's say ensuring cooperation with the university, and that is perhaps the advantage of the Pilsen Region, that he has a technical focus there. And then it's a project that's definitely not just regional or regional, but it's significant from the point of view of the whole republic and the maintenance of some segment of production. Of course, what this means for the region is to negotiate with all the ammunition on the traffic operator, to supply water and all the necessary things. And I would very much like us not to really upset any war between the different regions here, because the moment we argue whether one, the other or the third, and you, Madam President, you know the Plzeň Region well, for it is a neighboring region, so it may also happen that then we will say: We have nothing here and we have lost a whole range of qualified jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u29	Thank you for the time being and now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's point of fact, Mrs Oulehlová will prepare herself and Mrs Peštová will follow. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u30	I respond to the Member, through Madam President. I like Plzeň Region and all other regions very much. All I'm saying is that we're talking about investment incentives here. The investment incentive is that the state grants some kind of subsidy, it practically gives the incentive. In the Pilsen Region, it was practically decided that, if the investor goes there within the gigafactory framework, he would receive an investment incentive of CZK 11 billion, which is not a small amount. And you can see that in the Plzeň Region, the municipalities disagree with this, the airport should be canceled, even from the point of view of security. [[10.40 hours]] Maybe there are other regions, the structurally disabled ones, I don't want to say Karlovarsky, where we practically had everything in quotation marks ready. I understand that an investor has to choose. It's about him, but it's also about a state that has to say where, if any, when an investor comes to him, he says he's going to give state support. And I'm just convinced that if the differences between regions are this big and really the scissors are expanding more and more, then we should be looking for a way for investors to go primarily to the very regions that are at their worst. And that's just the fact that it is. And we have the University of West Bohemia in the Karlovy Vary Region, we have a branch there, and perhaps the arrival of such an investor would finally help to lift the region very economically. And that's not in the bill. The bill now states that all regions will be on the same level, and it turns out that no investor will ever go into these regions. Well, the minister says investors went there. Yes, because they didn't have to meet the condition that's going to be lifted there at the moment, and they're all going to be exactly the same. That's why I'm asking him to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u31	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Oulehlová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u32	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. You know, it's pretty simple. We, the Karlovy Vary Region, personally from Sokolov, wanted gigafactory. We've had many meetings, we've been prepared, we've had everything we need. I've been communicating with investors since I was a former mayor. Now the gigafactory might go to Pilsen. I have nothing against it, as you say, an investor chooses. But I'm talking about the 11 billion incentives. You here, Minister, are still performing with how our region of Moravian-Silesian and Ústecký is preferred, so just please, and it is really simple: you are giving an incentive of 11 billion to Plzeň, which is not structurally affected, the region - I also say I have nothing against the Plzeň Region - but so give the 11 billion to us too, please. It would help us. We're really the worst. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u33	I also thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mrs Peštová and Vice-President Skopeček will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to restock my previous speakers. He's the problem after he starts mining into a downturn, and that's a matter of several years. This is about to start happening, because we are going to have a lot more people at work in the affected regions, because you are already saying that unemployment is low, but see what unemployment is like in these affected regions. In essence, when you do the average, the average jumps off because unemployment is just as low in other regions. It's high in our country, it's low in there, we all ate on average. But in any case, as soon as the mining stops, the coal will cease to be extracted, so Moravian-Silesian - he has actually gone into the downturn or went in part - but Ústecký and Karlovy Vary region will go into the downturn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u35	Thank you for keeping time. It is now time for Vice-President Skopeček to prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister, or ask him. In his speech in response to me he said that I was Eurosceptic and that he had a different opinion. So I want to ask him what was eurosceptical in my speech and what else he thinks about, because I was merely describing some long-term statistical data describing the European Union's declining weight in terms of gross domestic product on the world economy. It's just data, you can't have an opinion, it can only be interpreted, it can be interpreted in different ways, but it's just data. They're not about opinions, they're about numbers. Then I'd like to ask him what I was Eurosceptic about. I've described some condition here that I'm not happy about. I am not pleased that the European continent on which I live is losing economically compared to other world powers. I have wondered why this is so, why the European Union has been losing in the last decade. I know the graph you were showing on the phone, but it describes the current situation, it doesn't describe the development. I was talking about development. So I would like to ask what I am Eurosceptical about, because I think I have not been a bit eurosceptical in my speech, that, on the contrary, I was Eurooptimistic in the sense that I was thinking about how to make Europe viable again to grow faster. In my view, this leads to fewer subsidies, fewer subsidies and more free market. That's probably the kind of thing you don't have to agree with me on, so maybe here you can confirm that you think that subsidies are leading to prosperity, and not to free-market business, but I would ask very much not to label ourselves here with words like Eurosceptic or Eurohujer. I could use it, after all, your minister from your political party has signed up for this word. I don't do it, and please don't do it too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u37	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Král. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u38	Minister of Industry and Trade, I would also like to ask you, because you know that yesterday I made a proposal for recasting, I understand and I can agree on certain matters, and I would like to ask whether, if necessary, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in which case I would be prepared to withdraw the proposal, to complete any comprehensive amendment or any amendment, so that, in the context of the investment incentives with the added value, it would be treated in some way, so that they would primarily go to the three regions, or have some advantages there. And I would ask you if you could really respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u39	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Král's turn to prepare Mr Bělor. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u40	Thank you. I would almost like to stand up for my colleague Mračková Vildumetzová here, because I think it is perfectly logical that, in the decision of the European Union, if I cut it short, her region is simply structurally disabled, for example, in terms of coal mining, which we can benefit from for decades and hundreds of years, but we will learn from some decision that we can no longer do so, so here she asks what path we will continue to take. And I think the fact that it was said here that the Association of Regionals just didn't give any reminder that what we should take out of this? Now don't talk to me about it and keep quiet forever. Well, the MIT has been having such a mess lately that the proposals for an interdepartmental commentary procedure give and want an answer within a few days. I'm afraid that there's no way to live in this either, and there's no way to react to it so that we can avoid what may be happening here today. But about what I wanted to ask you. I was talking about it last night, and it might have been a little bit of a mix-up. So what kind of money are the investment incentives coming from? Are we going to consider this a European subsidy, or is it going to go into those national subsidies, those subsidies that we want to cut under the consolidation package? The Ministry of Industry and Trade will cut 20.9 billion, the Ministry of Agriculture will cut the so-called hated national subsidies worth less than 11 billion. So tell us, from what budget will the money go to any particular investment incentive? Or will it be the European money, and then we say, "It's okay, isn't there any mischief against it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u41	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Bělor's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to put this debate back a little on a rational basis. Those regions we are talking about, Karlovy Vary and Ústecký, certainly deserve a comprehensive view. What we're running this political ping-pong here is just part of the problem. We must not forget that neither the Czechoslovak governments nor the Czech governments have actually mastered policy towards these regions after 1993, virtually all of them. So I would argue that in those regions - and I, the Karlovy Vary Region, although I am a Pražan, know very well that we should approach this comprehensively and not just pull one thing away and forget that this is a complex issue. Recently, on the subcommittee on European funds and cross-border cooperation, we agreed with Vice-President Dostálová that these issues need to be dealt with systematically and in the long term. And it's a shame that we're wasting our time here by pulling one thing out and not looking at these things comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u43	I also thank you for keeping the time, and it is now registered with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u44	I am only briefly to the Member who has now spoken, through Madam President. The law put forward by the Minister of Industry and Trade is that there is an exception for the three structurally affected regions. They didn't have to meet the conditions of the other regions today, so that's the nature of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u45	Thank you for keeping time. Now I don't register anyone with a factual remark. I have priority rights here. First Vice-President Skopeček, but I do not see the Vice-President in the O.R., and the second is Minister Síkela. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u46	I, on the one hand, thank you so much for the clarification that I do not have to address Members through, I was interested in this topic a few months ago, I read such a long treatise on it, I was not wise of it and I thought that it was better to always say hello twice or to dress a little better, that it would do less social damage, but now I am glad that I am clear about it. I had a very similar debate in France, I had read about it for a long time, whether the Minister, i.e. women, should address Madame la ministere or Madame le ministere, they are also not entirely clear about it and it was such a similar debate. But I'm much less confronted with this problem. If this is the case, and I would like to apologise to Mr Skopečka, Vice-President Skopečka, for the designation of a Euroscepticist. I've been a little generalized, he, of course, as an economic expert of our coalition partner, often performs in the media, and so I sort of came to this view from his outputs. It is true that I agree with him that the less bureaucracy, the more the free market and the less subsidies and incentives - because to some extent I consider them to be doping in sport - the better. I just want to respond to economic reality with this amendment of the law, and I just want to respond to the fact that if this instrument is being used by the surrounding states and used by the United States, then if we do not use it, we will be disadvantaged. If it's a request for an opinion from me on the possibility of some kind of drafting of the law, I don't see the reason or the scope. We've done a lot of work with the law. The law went through the commentary procedure, the comments were settled, it passed through the government, it passed unanimously. This means that I insist on the proposal as I have put it. And as for Mr Král's question: it is interesting for you, Mr Member, that you are the one who, in particular last year, shouted a lot after subsidies, especially for heating, and I, in terms of resources, those subsidies, of course, in public support, will be able to draw funds from EU money on certain matters, but, of course, those investment incentives are primarily designed to be an incentive in the form of tax relief, which will be due in the future. This means that there the primary source is the total accumulated income and tax income for the Czech Republic, which is only reduced. If there are components that need to be paid up queues, i.e. forward, we will, of course, deal with this on a case-by-case basis, depending on what resources we have at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u47	Thank you, and with a factual remark, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is signed in, and Mr Král will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your openness, but I'm sure it didn't please me. You said: I don't see the space or the reason. You practically said: structurally affected regions, regions that are the poorest today, have the worst GDP that needs the most help, I don't really care. I myself wonder what the President of the Czech Republic will say about this, Petr Pavel, who clearly states that these three regions need help, and it is you who are saying the exact opposite of this bill. For this reason, I would like to make a proposal to reject this law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u49	I also thank you, and now, with a factual remark, Mr Král is signed up. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u50	I didn't want to talk about heat yesterday or today. It's more suited to point 71 or 83, respectively. However, when you mentioned it here, Minister - yes, it is true. Why? Because if you're distorting the market with some regulation and one branch is discriminated against by another, then logically, you have to settle it. And I think it's fair for one thing to finally be said here, which maybe in the media - and thanks or because of the Ministry of Industry and Trade - has been said that heating has been given incentives at a level - and now I really don't know the number, it's different, one article talks about 7 billion, another article talks about 17 billion - the reality is that the heating hasn't gotten anything. And maybe somebody doesn't like to brag about it, but it's just that. And that's why I'm asking, and now with absolutely no emotion, what kind of money are the investment incentives coming from? Will they be counted into the national resources that we want to disrupt in the consolidation package, or will it come from European investment money? If we're talking about heating, yes, we're getting money from the Modernization Fund and other funds, thank you for that, but that's right, because we're putting great demands on decarbonization and so on. But let's say, in one breath, he's also taking the money to the state budget through the purchase of emission allowances. So we always have to tell the whole story. So the heating industry didn't get anything in terms of operating subsidies, in terms of promised or better in the media listed at 7 or 17 billion, okay? We receive investment subsidies, thank you for them, but we pay them as a field of expertise, unlike decentral resources through emission allowances, which are the subject of speculation on financial markets. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Please, time.]] I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u51	Thank you. And now with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u52	Two short reactions. Mrs Vildumetzová, please don't put things in my mouth that I didn't say. It's your interpretation. I understand that you are not qualified to interpret certain economic topics, so please don't do that. I have made it clear here that investment in the two most affected regions in particular is crucial for us, and that you do not understand it and that you interpret it differently is your problem. The fact that you don't understand a whole bunch of things suggests your statement that why we didn't put the gigafactory in you and put it in Plzeň. Even my eight-year-old daughter already knows that it takes two sides to make a deal, not just one. It's called a legitimately proper display of the will of the parties. [[11.00 hours]] And now to Mr. Král. Ambassador, did you listen to what I said when I answered your question? And what didn't you understand in that answer? I tried to explain to you what investment incentives were built on, and I said here that the vast majority of them should be in the form of a reduction in tax liability, which means a reduction in the tax burden for the investor, which means a reduction in the future revenue of the state budget. Is this answer sufficient for you at this point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u53	I also thank you and your speech raised two factual points, first Mr Brabec and Mr Bžoch will be prepared, then Mrs Schillerová. So, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u54	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you're making the arrogance and disdain flow, she's dripping out here, and I don't know if it's starting to bother my coalition colleagues anymore, from the five-calice. It might please me, because I might say: they are already fighting, I have told you from the beginning that they will break their noses, as we all know from the sun, hay, but please do not use, Minister, nor to Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová, nor to anyone else such remarks as this: your economic - I don't know - ability is not enough for you to be able to interpret it. You've been a banker my whole life, I've made a living in a different way, and I don't tell anyone here how many companies and people have tested me and so on. I think it's really out of line. The Chamber of Deputies, and I'm sure you know that, is a sovereign. Ministers, the Minister should answer to the Chamber of Deputies. I have been minister for eight years, I think much longer than you have enjoyed it, Minister, and I also had to suffer here, and I also had a problem with it at the beginning, a whole series of unpleasant things where it boiled in me, but I had to admit that the Chamber of Deputies had the right to do so, even though I did not like it. [[Fun and applause in the hall.]] But I don't remember being so arrogant. I don't know if you realize how you act like this. I guess you weren't exactly popular with the collective. I don't know, maybe you don't mind, but I'm able to put up with a lot, but this feels like it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u55	Thank you for your time and now, with a factual remark, Mr Bžoch. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u56	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief because my colleague Brabec took it from my mouth. Mr. Secretary, what you're doing here is really behind the edge. I understand that you may have a problem with how your colleagues here want to ask you some questions, but the way you treat my colleagues, and now I think from all sides here in the Chamber of Deputies, it's over. This is not what the Chamber of Deputies deserves. You answer to us, not us to you. You should realize that, and you should act accordingly. It's really over the edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Another, with the factual remark of President Schillerová. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u58	Thank you for the floor. Well, Minister, I didn't want to be involved in this substantive debate, I'm not quite as professionally immersed in it, although I've spent quite a long time as a taxpayer on investment tax incentives. That's not why I'm here, Minister. Please, why are you insulting my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová? Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is a heartmaker. He is a man who breathes for his work, who breathes for his region, for the Karlovy Vary Region. There's a deputy there, and all she cares about is getting the truth. There's no need to insult her. Why are you dropping it? I'll live, I'm used to it and I'm seasoned. And why do you blame her for not being a lawyer when you're a banker? You're a banker, and we also don't doubt that you're Minister of Industry and Trade at that time. So please answer her, answer her correctly, factually, and stop insulting her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u59	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Feranec. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I will also respond to Minister Síkela. I understand that in your uniqueness and genius, it is almost unworthy for you to talk to ordinary Members here. I understand you're not the first one in history, there were. One of them was a bug Pytlík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u61	I also thank the Minister for keeping time and now with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u62	I don't think Bug Pytlík is here today. I've used this analogy before, Mr. Ambassador, you've forgotten that. I'm not really gonna apologize. It's a question of who gets off, who gets off with what insults. Mrs Vildumetzová began to question my competence here today in the first sentence, simply calling the law what she called it. We can have an opinion on this. I respect that I answer to the House, but I don't have to take everything, nor will I. So if I get material questions, I'll answer them. If those questions are colored by insults, by questioning competence, or even by lies and lies, I will always respond to that. If you don't like it, I respect it. So I guess that's it for me right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u63	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mr Salvetr and Mr Král will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u64	Thank you for the floor. I do not wish to respond to the Minister's words, nor did I intend to respond to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, but by your means, Mr Brabec led me to this a little by saying that he could be glad that they were already fighting. And here was a reminder of why it should be in the Plzeň Region. I understand the struggle of the Karlovy Vary Region for having an interest in such projects when the municipalities are not completely aligned and they argue with each other. I think it would be in every region if such a large project is announced, and colleagues who are here from the Pilsen Region know about this, that it raises certain uncertainties, transport issues and other burdens, in the supply of water, which is particularly valuable in the dryer regions of the regions, and it is only logical that they are asking these questions. I am pleased that there has been communication in the direction from government to county, from regions to individual municipalities, so that any doubts can be refuted and that the project, for example, also corresponds to what is possible in that place. So it should not be a thing that disqualifies the Pilsen Region, and it is quite logical that the mayors, who face questions afterwards - and there is a great deal here in this House of Mayors - are confessing to their citizens, so they want to know the answers and receive them gradually. So it should not be the disqualifying thing for the Pilsen Region, although I understand the efforts of the Karlovy Vary Region for similar projects.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u65	Thank you for your time and now, with a factual remark, Mr Král. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u66	Minister, I've been listening to you very carefully for two days. We still don't understand each other. I'll say it for you, I don't know how to make this any clearer, but we're getting close to a conclusion. It needs to be said here, and this is really my speculation that the government is changing the strategy in the optics of the consolidation package, cutting off the so-called hated national subsidies that we will be saving on, and now, under the impression of this amendment, these national subsidies are beginning to call national reliefs. Let's just say it's no big deal, just... We will not have national subsidies - I don't know how to put it any more lapidally - we will not have those direct national subsidies, but we will now start applying tax exemptions to a greater extent. But it's always the same, it's just from one pocket to another. We're still talking about state or public budgets. And I was just asking, really, completely without emotion, if the investment incentives come out of that package of so-called national subsidies, or, if you like, tax breaks, or from that package of European subsidies, because that one package seems to be drying up, and the other package, those European subsidies, is kind of bottomless. [[11.10 hours]] I really don't want to say the sums here because I can't even imagine them. Some say 300 billion, then they say 500 billion, some say 700. It depends on how much euros, when, who buys and sells emission allowances and so on. So let's be clear - I'll support it, but I want to be clear - so it's national money, not European money. So we're going to finance a lot for the Europeans. [[Time.]] But not these God-loving projects. . Okay, all right. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u67	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kubíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a comment on the gigafactory in the Plzeň Region. This is my colleague Jana Vildumetzová. Mračková said that the Karlovy Vary Region, or Ústí Region, were prepared for this investment. They have conditions, scope and so on and so on. No, the gigafactors will be placed in the Plzeň Region. As a former pilot, I was approached by a association operating the airport of Lína, where they do not want it. It doesn't want the county, it doesn't want the city, it doesn't want the mayors. The Karlovy Vary Region says, "We want it." That doesn't make much sense to me. I would always negotiate where there is the path of least resistance, where it is prepared, and that gives me logic. It's nothing, it's about every project, and the offer should work. Yes, we have the conditions, we have the premises, we have the people, we have the future for it that says about coal interference, and we're gonna have a lot of people who are free. No, we'll put it in Pilsen County, where we don't have people, we don't have conditions, and we have resistance. It's illogical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u69	I also thank you for keeping time. We are still in the general debate and I have Mr Bureš's application here. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u70	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I prepared this about half an hour ago and applying for a proper debate is obviously disadvantageous, because you will write such a nice speech and then there will come priority rights, factual comments and speeches to you. Well, it's not gonna break me, so I'm gonna share my properly prepared speech with you with notes that I've been carefully writing to myself for about an hour in all the factual comments even in the priority rights. I apologize in advance to the Minister - and I do not mean that I am not such a vicious person - that I am not qualified, experienced in investment and with foreign action as he is. Personally, I feel like an ordinary municipal and regional politician, former mayor and former regional councillor. I would like to congratulate the Moravian-Silesian Region for having a technical university, congratulations to the Ústí Region for having a university. We don't have any public college in the Karlovy Vary Region. We've got a branch up there every now and then. I would like to appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the interest in promoting economic growth and investment in our country, because it is essential that we create a favourable environment for business and attract investors who can bring new jobs and development to our beautiful country. But personally, I would like it to be primarily for the regions that need it most and which are most affected. There is a methodology for this, and there are hard data that can be derived from it. It is true that it is important that we consider the potential negative consequences of investment incentives and also pay attention to their long-term sustainability. We need to focus on whether these incentives are fair and whether they should be in favour - and this is important - of all stakeholders, not just for the investor, but also for the State, but also for the region where the investment is coming from, because it does not remain in the air, it is not virtual reality or artificial intelligence, but it is a hard investment that comes into a particular region. Balance is one aspect that needs to be taken into account. Also, the balance between support - thank you for your attention - large corporations and small and medium-sized enterprises. [[The loud noise in the hall, the speaker silenced himself.]] When granting investment incentives, we should certainly ensure that they are distributed fairly and that SMEs also have access to these benefits. Small and medium-sized enterprises are often the engine of innovation and the local economy, and we should therefore also try to support their growth. Another aspect that we should certainly not forget is transparency and accountability. It is essential that we have clear rules and monitor the use of investment incentives, because the public has the right to know how their money is used and whether these incentives really benefit society as a whole. In addition, we should also focus on whether investment incentives are in line with our country's strategic objectives. We should ask whether these incentives support areas that are crucial to our development, such as sustainable energy, innovation or education. I would like to go back to the past a little bit, because I have a personal experience of how it worked when CzechInvest - then under the control of Mr Jahn, who was also, I think, at that time Vice-President of the Government - was driving directly CzechInvest, driving investors, knocking on the door with us, in the mayors, in the owners of industrial zones, in the industrial zone. Not only did he drive the investors, but he helped us with marketing the localities offered. I mean, if I call it right, it was proactive marketing. Today, the Minister claims that - and now I will quote him: 'investments have not come from the region'. But the region has no competence and no tools to seek investors abroad. We do not have representative offices in individual states, we are not shareholders of CzechInvest, we do not go on foreign missions, we do government foreign missions to meet with individual economic chambers of interesting states and present them and offer our region. I mean, these responsibilities are for the state and its institutions. That's why I find this sentence, this quote, that they didn't come from the county, very unfair. I really don't think it should sound like that. They just didn't come to your county, they weren't routed, that's probably more accurate, but certainly not that they didn't come from the county. We in regions and municipalities do not have the opportunity to call investors, we do not have contact with them, investors do not come to ask us: Do you want us to dock with you to be welcome with our investment, and what will you offer us as a community, what will you offer us as a region? These investors better go to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, maybe to CzechInvest. To date, the aid, which was directed through investment incentives, has mainly concerned our structurally affected regions with those less qualified, that is to say, the montovens. Honor of exceptions, such as in the Karlovy Vary Region, by Bayerische Motoren Werke, or BMW, which opens up its innovation centre. But I take it as an investment in this company, rather - how to say this - as a great advertising for the Karlovy Vary Region, not as an influx of a large number of jobs, because this innovation centre alone has an estimated 200 employees, who, although they will probably have the best education in their field, may well be foreign workers, definitely graduates of foreign universities, and it will be a matter that our Karlovy Vary Region will certainly be able to boast and boast about. [[11.20 hours]] Maybe because of this, some investors will come, but the investment incentives that came to us, and the structurally affected regions, were mostly for the assembly plants. After all, this is how the Act on Investment Incentives was set up, but it is the government order that the Minister here spoke of. I'd like to correct one of the inaccuracies that has been said here. Karlovy Vary County didn't get it, didn't get it! this amendment on investment incentives to comment. I checked it out in the Karlovy Vary Region, checked it out at the office, really, the Karlovy Vary Region wasn't a reminder place so we could comment on this law. [[A rare round of applause.]] However - thank you for the applause - but we did not hesitate, and when this law appeared in eKLEP, we, together with colleagues from the Ústecký Region and the Moravian-Silesian Region, called for negotiations with the employees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, not only as Members across the regions but also as representatives of individual regions who participated in the meeting. And since I assume that the Ministry of Industry and Trade is properly and appropriately led, I am convinced that the colleagues of Minister Síkela gave him the information and that they know that this meeting has taken place, and what has bothered us, and what we have been teaching and proposing at the meeting, and we have said: "We are quite okay with this amendment, because in this amendment only the powers from the government are transferred to the level of the Ministry, or some collective body that will decide on these investments. What bothers us, and what we want mostly, is not to forget precisely the structurally affected regions, so that, on the one hand, they will praisefully cease to support the assembly rooms and really support investment with high added value and investment of innovative capital, but that these investments are directed to us in the Karlovy Vary Region, which has no university, to the Ústí Region, which has no technical university or technical fields, and even to the Moravian-Silesian Region, which has a university and technical fields. This is how I would imagine it in this order, meaning the first Karlovy Vary, the second Ústecký and the third Moravian-Silesian region. We also made it clear at the meeting that the regions are ready to help, that they are ready to cooperate with all the branches of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, not only with the Ministry itself, but also with CzechInvest and others. We'd just like to see if that's possible, if there's already any thesis or concept of government regulation that will accompany this amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, which will be the devil hiding in the details, or the detail in which the devil is hiding, maybe I should put it this way in reverse. This means that we can actually see if we can, if we want to equalize regional disparities, because that is what we exist as a unitary state. If we were a Federation or a Confederation, where each region would be able to play on its own turf and it would have some kind of tax letters and so on, it would be something different, of course, but we are a state of unitary, that is, a state that has central management and that has the respective competences, but, of course, responsibility for those competences is also linked, that is, responsibility for the state to develop evenly, so that there are regions that are bits that have problems and to help with these problems. And to address them, not only in the form of social instruments, whether the instruments of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or the Agency for Social Inclusion, because that - the hand on the heart - has not yet succeeded, these socially excluded localities and similar affected areas in our regions. As I said yesterday, we need to provide our people with qualified and, if possible, highly qualified work. I was once told, as mayor and district councillor, that only the assembly houses are coming to us, that there is nothing but the assembly rooms, but I told everyone: well, imagine that you are the owner of the factory, now you will be able to invest, you will need to invest, and you will have the opportunity in North Macedonia. With all due respect, you probably don't know anything about the region that you don't know, and you only have positive news about it, because North Macedonia is logically luring its investors only to the positive things, so in the beginning you will certainly put less sophisticated production there. You're really just gonna put in that montage to see if these people, the citizens of that state, have a proper work ethic, if they don't make a mess, if production actually works, if there are downtimes, strikes, and so on, just if you can count on them. And only in the second wave, when you verify this, will you start to put more sophisticated production into those regions you didn't know at the beginning, and maybe in the finals, you can also transfer development in your company. But this is what I was saying sometime in 2005, 2006, maybe 2010, when the investments started coming to us, when they started coming to us, but we're already somewhere else today, we're at a time when those foreign investors could already verify that we're doing the job well, that we're able to create real values, and that it's time for the production of sophisticated. That is why, of course, I support this philosophy, which has been presented over the last few years, which means supporting the taxpayers' money with investment incentives that will have high added value. I would like to conclude by stressing that discussions and a critical assessment of investment incentives are necessary. This discussion is really necessary, especially in order to continuously improve investment incentives and the system, so that we can be sure that they really bring benefits to our country, the Czech Republic and its citizens. I would like to thank you for the attention you have given me and for the time, and I hope that this response will also contribute to a further, open and constructive dialogue on investment incentives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mrs Peštová and Minister Válek will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u72	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna try to answer my foreman here with such a beautiful monotonous voice. I certainly wouldn't privatize which region is bigger or more deserving. It's almost three times the size of the Karlovy Vary region, so when you said here that the first Karlovy Vary, then Ústecký and then Moravian Silesian, it kind of resonated with me as the Ústečák, because I fought all the time for all the regions. [[11.30 hours]] In my own experience, I have to say that a person who doesn't get into technical school goes to pedagogical school, and on the other hand, it's never that one who doesn't get into pedagogical school goes to technical college. So please, let's fight for all the regions as well, not just the Karlovy Vary one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Another with a factual remark, Minister Válek. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u74	I'm sorry that I'm acting this way on an issue where I'm not an expert, and grant titles in general are always a problem from my point of view, but I'd like to say some of the facts that went a little further here. That means there is also a medical college in the Moravian-Silesian Region, a medical school. I am so glad that, in cooperation with the governor, the mayor and the rector, we recommended the opening of the dental faculty there, because I think it is right and it will help the Moravian-Silesian region, where today is one of the worst availability of dentists throughout the country. I would like to say that, in cooperation with the Governor and with all the Members sitting here regardless of which parties are political, we have agreed to support a comprehensive oncological centre within the Karlovy Vary Region. To the Karlovy Vary Region will go to build a complex oncological centre, or to the first stage of the construction of about 200 million into two cities, as the health representation of the region has decided. At the same time, in cooperation with the Members - and it was from STAN, from ODS, from YES, who are from the Karlovy Vary Region - we agreed that it was necessary for there to be a helicopter station to really take off helicopters. Here I would like to, now I don't see a colleague from ODS, thank you very much, yes, thank you very much. And I would also like to thank Mr Mašek, who has been involved in the debate and is preparing the structure of the network precisely for these reasons, that we want to supplement those regions, which, for example, are forgotten, which, let us say, fall out of the system. That means, I really think we're taking a number of steps in this direction that are positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u75	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, with factual remarks, Mr Nový, Mrs Peštová is registered and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová follows. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief response to the previous speech by my colleague Bureš concerning the presence of public universities in the Karlovy Vary Region. My colleague is wrong if he claims that the Karlovy Vary Region suffers from the absence of a public university. Since 1990, the Faculty of Economics of the University of West Bohemia in Pilsen has been active in the Karlovy Vary Region. Thousands of graduates attended this faculty in more than 30 years. The fact that the Karlovy Vary Region is not the seat of a public university in the size of at least regional universities such as Pilsen, Liberec, Hradec Králové and so on is due to the size of the Karlovy Vary Region, which at 300 000 inhabitants, which corresponds to the size of Ostrava, is unable to support the required institution economically. That's a different debate. This is for the debate on the regional arrangement of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u77	I also thank you for keeping time. And another point of fact is prepared by Mrs Peštová and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, it's nice of you to make a beautiful point here about taking care of health care in these regions. I understand that. But I was expecting you to say, maybe, that that's why there was some kind of production that was doing something for the health department. Do you understand? We've been talking all this time about high unemployment in these regions, there's going to be a decline in mining, which means we're going to drop more people who are going to be unemployed. Their eruditions or, respectively, their education do not correspond to their high management positions. So we're talking about something coming out of the law that could cause big problems for the future. And I'd also like to respond to my previous speaker when he said there's a high economic school there. Well, that's exactly it, what we're talking about here, it's also not the cadres that should be there. That means, in its essence, from the three counties, we're best off the Moravian-Silesian, because he's raising the techniques, he's got the background. We just don't have the background. Neither region - neither Ústecký nor Karlovarský - we simply do not have a technical college to raise these cadres to keep us there to work there. Because it's perfectly logical, if there are any incentives, they're going to those cities where the potential is, that means Brno, that means the Moravian-Silesian Region, that means Prague, Central Bohemia Region, that's where the people are. They're not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u79	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's turn. Minister Válek will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u80	Thank you for the floor. Response to the performance of honored colleague Jan Bureš, who was with me for three years in the leadership of the Karlovy Vary Region before I left for maternity leave, with the fact that together, together we succeeded just the arrival of investor BMW. Thank you for his speech, but I hope he has noticed that I have asked the Minister of Industry and Trade here in quotation marks whether there would be room for this law or regulation to regulate that primarily those productive investments will go to the regions that need it most. I hope that my honourable colleague Jan Bureš, through Madam President, has also registered the reply of the Minister of Industry and Trade: I do not see the space or the reason. So I myself am curious to see how, above all, Members from structurally affected regions will vote. I asked him here, I said I was ready to withdraw the proposal if necessary. And his reaction was what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u81	Thank you for keeping time. And now, with a point of fact, Minister Válek. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, everything has to do with everything. If there is a complex oncology centre in the Karlovy Vary Region, it is a workplace where no doubt top experts must work, whether they are oncologists, radiation oncologists and others. And if these workers at a place like this, if they're well equipped, and they are, they're going to get in, for example, very likely to help raise experts in this region, they're going to help, for example, make sure that there's a workplace that's linked to a medical faculty to interns there. They're all the steps that lead to improvement. If the dental faculty in the Moravian-Silesian Region opens up, the faculty, like the medical faculty that opened up there, will contribute to solving various academic studies, which can then follow from the theoretical research applied. Look how the Pardubice faculty started. And today they have a team dedicated to lipids, which has won two large European grants for 3 million euros, the other one has been even bigger, it is not small money, and it has pulled into the startup project in the Pardubice Region, i.e. in Pardubice, which has brought private entities involved in funding into the startup project. And it's probably gonna trigger some development, too, because the patent owners are this university. I think all these things need to be put together. And I agree that we have to talk not only about those regions, but we have to go to the level of cities, we have to go to the level of those areas where the problem really is, because there are differences between areas in those regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u83	Thank you for keeping time. I no longer note any further factual point, nor do I have any further application for a general debate. Do I look again in the hall to see if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate? I don't see anyone. I am therefore ending the general debate. Will I ask if there is an interest in the final words, the Minister, the rapporteur? It's not like that. [[11.40 hours]] I have already begun to work for my colleagues because we will now vote on two proposals. Therefore, first of all, the application for reimbursement of the application submitted to the applicant for completion. I'm gonna rejoin... I've gonged enough already. So now we are voting on the return of the motion put forward to the applicant for completion. I'm registering an interest in check-out. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards. Please be patient when the number of entries is settled... So I think the number of entries has settled. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 131, Mr 163 Members and Members, in favour of 74, against 84. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the motion to reject the proposal tabled by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 132, 165 Members of Parliament signed in for 73, versus 86. The motion was not accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So now we will vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 133, registered 166 Members and Members, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to request the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u85	Thank you, so we will now vote on the commandment of the next committee to discuss which may be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 134, 167 Members of Parliament signed in for 77, versus 8. The motion was not accepted. Since there has not been a proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the period referred to in Section 91, I conclude on this point. Yes, Madam President, please, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u86	Thank you for the floor. Well, I saw the eloquent gesture of the Minister when my colleague proposed inclusion in the Committee on Regional Development and Public Administration. [[He's pointing his thumb down.]] An eloquent gesture. That's how he showed how he cared about the regions. Anyway, my colleague, the chairman of this committee, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, will still take it to this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-002-018.u87	Thank you. I take note of many factual points here, but I assume that these are not factual remarks that you abstained from voting. Just in case: Mr Major, Mr Beitl, Mr Slabý, Mr Benda, Mr Bauer, Mrs Decroix, Mr Žáček and Mr Balaš - are all these errors, I presume, to vote? So I'm erasing you. Before I open another point, I will add my apologies: Mrs Pekarová Adamová apologizes until 10.30 for reasons of work, Mr Benešík Ondřej within 12 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Fialová Eva within 12 hours for health reasons, Mr Hrnčíř all day for health reasons, Mrs Opltová Michaela all day for health reasons and Minister Stanjura from 11 o'clock for personal reasons. We will now proceed to discuss item number
