ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets /house print 488/ - first reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Thursday 13 July in the general debate. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table on behalf of the Government Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura - yes, we have here the Minister, a good day, and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Havránek, has already taken his place. We will therefore now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr. Andrej Babiš has applied for the floor with priority rights. But here I am looking at the point that the hearing was suspended before Mr Milan Feranc's speech in the general debate. However, Mr. Andrej Babiš's right of priority is here. Please, you have the floor. And please be quiet in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u2	Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u3	Wait a minute, I'm sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. You may proceed, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u4	So one more time. Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, there was an historic event yesterday. And maybe the press will find out that it's already happened, but I really don't remember. And yesterday the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Fiala, and in the presence of the Vice-President of the Czech Statistical Office, announced that inflation was 9.7 %. I have to say that this is absolutely unbelievable, because people who have been watching inflation, its development since 2021, and are watching the Prime Minister's comments on inflation must be absolutely shocked. Because we all remember the Prime Minister talking about Babišův's dear, talking about Putinův's precious. Recently, the Prime Minister was arguing with the Czech National Bank about who was responsible. And yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that this government, which did nothing for people, had brought inflation down. This is absolutely unbelievable. [[With laughter.]] And I've seen a lot of people lie. And some had tic and some were actually blushing, some didn't look into their eyes. But the Prime Minister is lying incredibly. He's lying sovereignly, he's actually acting convincingly. And now I don't know if he believes or doesn't believe it or thinks that people don't remember what he said this year in May, this year. [[With laughter.]] And so I admire the Prime Minister that he can lie so convincingly and superbly. I think the Prime Minister's lies about bankruptcy have already been refuted by the Minister of Finance himself. That it wasn't Greece, that was, of course, one of the lies. This government and the Prime Minister are still lying over and over again. Green Deal, inflation. And then the person - I didn't read the whole thing, and now I'm going to read it and comment that those who see it are absolutely shocked, absolutely shocked. The Prime Minister is lying to us yesterday at a press conference - and I want to say that maybe the Prime Minister is lying because he doesn't understand. I understand that he's a political scientist, he doesn't understand the economy, he doesn't understand inflation, he wrote a beautiful book about Conservatism, it's like the ODS Bible, but it's a shame he's not holding on to it. And who's writing him those speeches or why? Or if he's really lost all his inhibitions and he really doesn't mind, but then when I watch him perform, he's definitely a master, maybe the world. Really lower your hat, Prime Minister. Lying like that and, uh, seriously, convincingly, and those people who don't understand, I guess they'll believe you. But those who watch it can't trust you. So what did the Prime Minister tell us yesterday? "We inherited rapidly rising inflation from Babišův's government." That's the first lie, yes. I'm gonna read you the inflation here from November 2021, okay? You, of course, question EUROSTAT if it doesn't suit you, but this is the Czech Statistical Office. [[9.10 hours]] And it says here in the headline that inflation only went up by 0.2, and this development was influenced by the remission of VAT on electricity and natural gas prices. Our government forgave VAT 21 percent in November and December to zero, which is why negative inflation was. You guys haven't done anything about inflation, and I think it's an outrage that you're even allowed to get off like that and say it. You got 260 billion from citizens and companies into the budget of 2022 and 2023 by taxing them with inflation. You've been taxing inflation for two years, last year, this year, next year, you'll be taxing tax increases. So the consumer prices - and I'm reading it here - in November, the lower electricity prices were 16.2% and natural gas by 11.5 percent. Absolutely clearly proven facts. As Secretary Černochová says - facts, facts, figures. I don't think you're gonna question the Czech Statistical Office when you were standing next to that gentleman yesterday. So we hit inflation in November and we hit inflation in December anyway. So it's absolutely clear here that by taking the measure, we simply hit that inflation, and we did something for it. In December, the Czech Statistical Office writes, electricity prices dropped by 15 percent and natural gas by 7.9 percent mainly due to temporary remission of VAT on energy. Yes, we did something against inflation, and that's why we ended up, and it's completely absurd, as you actually argue, and there's a table here, there's a clear table here, and that's according to the Czech Statistical Office, that in December inflation was 6.6 and in January it fired at 9.9. Why? Because everything we've done is good for people and we've hit electricity and gas prices, so everything Babišův's government has done is wrong, we don't want that. That's why it went off because you guys didn't continue to make VAT zero. Of course, there are different ways to push inflation down, and the best way we've told you is February 18, 2022. Here I called on Minister Síkela to stop the price of electricity for people at CZK 1500 per megawatt, as Minister Sulík did at the time and dealt with electricity producers in Slovakia. You didn't. You caused the inflation, you drove it out to the Czech Statistical Office of 18 percent and, according to Europe, I think up to 19 percent. So it is absolutely absurd and incredible that you have the audacity to tell people that you have inherited some inflation from our government when this inflation suits you, because you are taking money from people and not just through inflation, but you are taking away from them now with this quasi-healthy package, which is not a recovery package, and of course it is a tax package. And that's where the data is. This is Eurostat and I have a graph here where inflation is the European Union, Germany, Spain, France, Austria, Poland and Slovakia. And it is clear here that inflation in the Czech Republic, when we handed you the office in December 2021, fell to 5.3 percent and we were deep below all these countries, the Member States in the European Union. The only one below us was France. Why? You're sitting next to that Macron guy at the European Council. I mean, Macron bought out EDF's minority, logically, maybe without a deal, and they fought back, and now I think it's clear. Macron hit inflation by a shock. The Španěl narrated it to help people with the price of electricity and gas, 200 billion euros. So all these states helped people, and you didn't do anything, and you got shot right away. Because it suits you. It's good for your friends to make electricity, too. And you were supposed to buy out the CEZ, the only company you didn't completely privatize and where you have 70 percent and where you finally listened to us, and last year you were supposed to take the dividend and buy it out. It is only now that you have taken the larger dividend and are preparing another scam where you want to divide CEZ to suit mainly private investors and not the state. So it's clear here. Then you're going to have inflation gradually -- you were actually looking forward to it all being more expensive -- so it went up to 18 percent. It's just clear, these are statistics. So don't tell me you inherited something from Babišův's government. You inherited the Czech Republic in great condition with the sixth least debt, the ninth prosperous country, the seventh safest and so on. I've already talked about it, but the inflation is clear here. It's clear here and the incredible audacity to brag about you doing something about it - you did nothing at all. Of course, I have been criticizing the Czech National Bank for a long time what it has done. The base rate of 7 percent - you were silent, you were silent all the time when Rusnok was there, who destroyed the mortgage market here. Let someone explain to me why citizens, entrepreneurs and businessmen have to pay more interest than the euro for the crown. Why? What logic does it make when we export 87% to the European Union when we are in the European Union, there are investors here. Yes, someone will say - if we had the euro, but that's not an argument. You have damaged all, i.e. the CNB, had banks earn in 2022 - and now listen, fellow citizens - 180 billion. And that windfall tax, you get nothing there because private companies and banks know how it works. So who here did something for inflation? Only our government in November and December 2021. Yes, perhaps the Czech National Bank has strengthened the crown with this policy. Yes, thanks to the strong crown, the oil that imports - and Prime Minister, you said you'd cut off the Russian oil, so she's leaking right now, the Russian oil. And you bought an extra 850,000 tons of Russian oil in 2022. But thanks to the stronger crown, it was fine. So the question is, do those refineries that had a profit, I don't know what, 20 billion, whether it affected the inflation or not? And the gas. Minister Síkela just keeps talking about how much gas he has and that he doesn't have Russian gas. Well, of course he does, because ČEZ has a contract with Gazprom. So stop lying to these people all the time. This is unbelievable. I'm not gonna talk about how you promised that pipeline from Poland and all that nonsense about how you always blamed us for what we are... And Dukovany, of course. And a hundred times those pro-government media, your commentators and editors who are rooting for you, they're gonna say that Havlíček wanted Rossatom. Well, I didn't. [[9.20 hours]] You had him in Temelín, in the Rosatom versus Westinghouse finals. You had him, your government, Nečasův' government, yeah. But these lies, the fact that there was some comment that it was a policy of lies and that it's still over and over again. It's unbelievable and really not ashamed, I don't really understand. Here's a clear graph that points to the fact that... Yes, the Czech National Bank thinks it will do something for inflation. I think that maybe the exchange rate had some influence, but the fact that they made the basic rate twice as high and at the beginning it was up to three times higher than the euro was a fundamental mistake. Today, our young families can forget their apartments. Klára Dostálová performed here yesterday. Mr. Bartoš is going to Mr. President's office today to address the housing issue. That's another joke, isn't it? I mean, Mr. Bartoš tells us he's gonna build apartments, now he's telling us that young people are going to rent. What apartments, go to rent, right? The apartments will buy the rich and you will pay the rent. 3+kk in Prague 37,000, without directing. So I took a turn, and, of course, the press will say... I don't have a speech, I've been through it all, and I know what I'm talking about, unlike the Prime Minister, who, of course, doesn't know what he's talking about, and he believes it. I don't know how it is. So today, Spain or France, they all have lower inflation because they did something for people. I mean, the basic problem was the electricity. Instead of Minister Síkela going to Slovakia to see Sulík and agreeing how they did it, you made a fool of us. But the new government, the clerk who's there for the election, the Slovak government, has extended it. So the Slovák have CZK 1,450 per megawatt. All right, fellow citizens, figure out how much you'd save. The Prime Minister is still saying how cheap our energy is. Well, we don't, the ceiling was meaningless. I wonder where the tens of billions ended up compensating for the electricity, if it wasn't a tunnel again, and if there were any traders who didn't agree with the manufacturers and sign the contracts afterwards. We've got an x of your tunnels here, I'm not going back to the solarium and so on. So the history is clear. So about the inflation. I'll read it to you again that basically you fell for it -- yes, you fell for it because you didn't want to continue with the electricity tax for the people at zero. We chtítn't, yes. You didn't, and the solution was clear. I think everyone needs electricity, and we see it on the results of those companies as it is. So when I read that you're something... like incredible, really incredible. Then you're talking about Russian aggression. You're still making excuses for Ukraine, yeah. I've asked you several times to present the numbers. When I told Prima, the editor said - well, that's terrible. You said - that's incredible, Babiš asks how much the Ukrajinec cost us. It's going to fall down a little bit. It's supposed to be 45 billion and - I don't know - 40 weapons. Well, if it's 85, then fine, yeah. Only that Czech citizens feel that you have endless resources for weapons and for Ukraine, and you have no resources for them, and that is why you increase their taxes when you promise otherwise. So the Ukraine, Prime Minister. If I'm wrong, show me the numbers. If it's 80 billion, fine. As part of the covid, when we lost 5.5 percent of GDP in 2020, it was 82 billion, and 370 billion we gave people to maintain employment so that the tradesmen would survive and the employees would survive. That's 450 billion. But you don't want to talk about the numbers, because you just don't understand it, and you're manipulating it. So you're talking about Russian aggression. Yes, but last year the Czech Republic exported three times more electricity and we produce it very cheaply - Dukovany 500 CZK per megawatt. It's written off. Of course, the coal producers have the emission allowances. Remember, Prime Minister, when you yelled at me in the election debate, what I did? I did, I wrote letters, I acted on the Council. On December 16th, you left it up to me when you came to Strakovka on the 17th. That's how I acted, okay? This is incredibly messy, you emission allowances. That's speculation. Someone's making billions of it. In September 2021, I made it clear that they would put it at 30 euros per Megawatt. If it shoots at 100, well, of course, then the... So you didn't do anything there either. Then you say -- then all those events that we know well came. Yeah, we know that. You didn't do anything. You didn't do anything. In 570 days or as much as it is today, you don't have a program, you don't have a government programming statement. You never evaluated the first one, you changed some words in the second one, you didn't evaluate that either. That's why I asked you to come up with something in September that you'll be doing for people here two years by October 2025 and asking for trust. You lied to these people, you promised them something. But it's incredible how you can lie before the election, after the election, in the morning, in the evening, at lunch, at the press conference last night. You have your shows, you're spreading your nonsense, and the hosts are looking at you with admiration, letting you talk, the tripartite that's going somewhere. The Prime Minister didn't discuss it with us yesterday. Then he went on TV and said I used some vulgarisms. No, I used one word that a Czech citizen uses every day, I think, and it's no vulgarism. That was the only comment. The Prime Minister doesn't want to debate with us here, because he obviously doesn't know what to go about. So there was no effort. You have demonstrated your efforts to rob citizens of the Czech Republic. Retirement first, those are your enemies. Because we're supposed to be elected seniors, come on, get the fare off. But even the young ones, discount off. Then you took away their 7,000 crowns, okay? And now Jurečka goes on. This is a unique Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We've never had one like him who doesn't like seniors, he wants to take their money, and he wants to retire later. So I don't know what you're talking about. The efforts of our government, yes. Your government's efforts have a clear result. You dropped from ninth place to 12th place, security disaster, crime. Well, as a cherry on the cake, you invited those illegal migrants to Europe. So everything's wrong. Well, here you are talking about some steps, a reduction in energy. I don't know where the power went down. I mean, the ceilings are incredibly high. You negotiated at European level, yes. The Presidency is a complete disaster. Even Mr. Rakušan boasted that you were preparing the migration treachery that Morawiecki and other states are blocking. Well, that's incredible, the result as it is. You promised you wouldn't allow a ban on the production of cars with internal combustion engines, and then you let it happen. That people will pay for real estate and so on. So at that European level, you didn't negotiate anything at all. I know it's probably hard for you to tell the European Council - give me 45 billion Ursula. Otherwise, we'll be here all year, like I said. If you disagree, you will be there for a whole year and they will give it to you because the European Union is a hard business, a hard business - so that we know what it is about to fight for Czech interests. But you don't know that. So you were negotiating, here you say, racked up, completely wrong. Well, now there's a lot of fun in government savings. I already talked about it. What savings, where did you save what you saved? You're raising 160 people now in the framework of a new system. You didn't save anything. You've got hundreds of advisors everywhere, you've got friends everywhere who have failed in the election and they're advisors and so on. So you're wasting money, and you want people's savings, right? Well, now it's really smiling that you've been putting persistent pressure on supply chains. [[9.30 hours]] I don't know, if you believe that, do the pressure, let the bread cost 10 kroner if you push. What a load of crap! What nonsense! What kind of pressure would you do? Are you okay with the fact that citizens of the Czech Republic still go to Poland, Germany and everywhere to buy food? Your pro-government Cypriot server List of messages: Sad, but we don't care about the Czech Republic, people from shopping abroad are saying. Your advisor said go shopping in Poland. Is that normal, this? After all, Poland - Moraviecki reduced VAT to zero. You don't want the people you're taking that money from spending that money in the Czech Republic? You don't give a damn? I don't understand. I don't understand why this doesn't bother you, why it doesn't bother the Treasury Secretary. So the persistent pressure on the supply chains, we had it with Minister Nekula, it was really funny, the flour in Lidl for 12.90 and so on. I think the people in this business must be completely on the pills because you can't listen to that. We've been acting for over a year, pushing producers, food vendors, suppliers, and so on. No, you only have that Agrofert in your head. You're just dealing with the Agrofert. This nonsense, this nonsense, instead of being glad that there is a Czech company registered in Bohemia, which employs 40,000 people and takes into the budget of 2022 to social, health and taxes of 5 billion! Five billion! And Adamová can lie as much as she wants, but everyone knows it's not true. Yes, you criticized us for... you pressured oil and gasoline dealers. No, Prime Minister, it doesn't work like that, there's a market here, it works. I mean, you're a right-wing conservative party, or that's how you started for Klaus. So I don't know what you're talking about, you ODS, right-wing party, you want to tell businessmen how much they're profiting? But you do. Yes. So when the gas went down for the people and the companies, you were pissed off, so we're gonna increase the excise duty right away. The Prime Minister says that this pressure is paying off and has a proven effect on how prices fall. That's incredible, I don't know, business people must be completely dead from what the Prime Minister here says. On the contrary, it was right that we resisted the pressure of the various populists and economic experts who advised us to lower prices and reduce or cancel VAT. Yes, exactly, we resisted. But you couldn't resist the pressure of electricity producers, you couldn't resist them, and that's why they have tens of billions and hundreds of billions of profits, yes. And you robbed people by 260 billion. That's the inflation. If you guys had cut the power, everything would have been fine. Sure. But it suits you, the Minister of Finance has not responded to the inflationary clause of church restitution 165 billion. Now, how much do they get? Eight, nine billion? So your experts-- we all know what your experts are. Where they're from, what they say, where they've been, who pays them, and so on. So now you're saying that this isn't over and that we've turned inflation into a wasteful policy. So the fact that we've given people -- we've reduced their taxes, we've reduced their taxes by 504 billion, so you think that's wasteful. That's why people had the savings, and that's why they have the savings to survive today when this antisocial government came. We didn't allow food leaps, gasoline. You normally do everything, so I don't know, you could make it all cheaper again. And why don't you get the electricity, like the Slovák do, the 1450s. Why don't you put the ceiling down, why don't you buy out CEZ? Why don't you do something for people? So it's absolutely incredible that you claim to have taken anti-inflationary measures. You guys didn't take any anti-inflationary measures because the other lie - to say that we gave people money and they ran - I don't know - to Lidl, where there was a roll 2.90 and there was only one and everyone didn't eat for two weeks, and someone bought it for a hundred? You're out of your mind! And those idiots who repeat it, those so-called experts who may have read some books and never done business in their lives, they don't know how it works, so you're referring to them. So it's not true and don't say it again! The clear evidence is that the citizens of the Czech Republic saved 900 billion. Nine hundred billion, yes. And they got money for the inflationary bonds that Ms. Schillerová's former finance secretary pushed through. Then the Prime Minister was talking about the index, slowing down annual growth. I don't know if you're doing analysis, how it looks, how it all falls down, retail and so on, logically, housing, so I don't know what Mr. Bartoš and Mr. President are gonna do today. But Klára said it yesterday. Mr. Bartoš is here today to open those properties that have been built thanks to our programs, but he also criticizes us. The restaurant - the Michelin, it's unbelievable. This is normally incredible impertinence when you approve CZK 54 million, because three chefs in the Czech Republic feel that tourists go to the Czech Republic to the Michelin restaurant. He's not coming! Those young boys from London come here for beer and girls, they don't go to Michelin restaurants. Who goes to Michelin restaurants? Rich people! These are expensive restaurants. I owned a restaurant in the south of France, had two stars, it was one of the best, we lost some real money and closed it. And then you talk about Michelin when you don't know anything about it? At first it was said that there would be 50 restaurants in the catalogue. So what does that mean-- 54 divided by 50 is a million and something-- that's corrupt potential, right, the restaurants? The 50. We have thousands of restaurants, and who's gonna get into it? Who's gonna pick it out? Who put it up there? Who lobbied that place? So you tell people - we don't have money, retired people, you're out of luck, young people, you're out of luck, we're gonna get you married. And here he gets -- first it was a couple of restaurants, like Michelin, now it's supposed to be a larger number. So you're totally devastateing the resort again. You keep talking over and over that EET didn't bring anything. Of course it did, 14 billion, and it would bring 20 billion. And most importantly, it brought down VAT on food, soft drink and draft beer. Yes, a draft beer. That was my case, 'cause I wanted to do something to those pubs that don't have food to compensate for. So today's signal is clear that these businesses don't have to pay their taxes, it's just the employees. And you sent out a clear signal. So here, the pro-government Czech Television is asking you, "how do I work for you, the steps of the government, whether they are sufficient, and at the same time with permission, I will ask you about the course in the House?" The story was that the Prime Minister wasn't talking to us, the Prime Minister had a speech here yesterday, which is probably similar to how it's usually all working out, everything's great, except the numbers don't add up. Here's the editor asking if there'll be any compromises. Then I guess they will be. No? How many of those Schwarzenbergs own the ponds and the Chernives, the nobles from the TOP 09? You don't know? That they won't pay the tax for the pond? And Stan's lobbying for the media, that's scandalous. But okay, I'm not commenting. Or the pirát suggests something that the presidents are unlucky. So that's why I was saying why we're here, we could've left it for September, when you guys got it all out in five, then there's a servile Tripartite coming in, he's gonna give you a suggestion, and you're gonna say, "Well, sorry, like guys, you're unlucky, we're right, you're not gonna blackmail us, we understand. Totally unbelievable! When I remember how it was for us. [[9.40 hours]] Get your hat off! You guys are so good at it, and you're handling it all. And, of course, the media, the media, how great it's all been. Well, what did you say? It turns out that our sensible policy, yes, that's reasonable, against people, antisocial policy thought-out, even, thought-out, that's why it changed every week - it brings effect, because apart from starting to get inflation under control, it's like incredible. [[With laughter.]] I mean, here are the articles you were arguing with that Michl guy who did this? Because now the reporters have invented another Michl who ended up my advisor and I criticized him! I criticized him because those CNB theorists, they'd want 20% unemployment to be here, so people wouldn't even have bread to fly on vacation! Well, Mr. President's advisor told us what the citizens of the Czech Republic are really doing when they fly on vacation. It's a scandal, isn't it? That's what you want! To make it sound like Morocco, where a businessman, when -- and there's brutal capitalism -- throws someone out in front of that tin gate, and there's a hundred Maročan sitting on the sidewalk without a job, and he says, "Come here! And he's gonna take him in. You would imagine that, yes, for people to be out of work here, that would be great inflation, because of course, people wouldn't be good at anything. Well, totally incredible, unbelievable, what the CNB has been doing to us. Well, of course, instead of criticizing and fighting, fighting for people, you didn't do anything. The investigation, well, that's incredible. I've already suggested it, Prime Minister, if I were Prime Minister, no treats, just water and coffee. Cancel all IT contracts, cancel all advisors with the ministers. I had, like, seven or eight advisors, and I had these cloud agendas. Ban all IT contracts! Like really do it! Release all members of the five-calice party. Do you know how much you'll save? I don't want ministers flying regular lines! I was the finance minister on the line. Only the Prime Minister has a special to fly. No, but, of course, in Europe, to add that. So you can save money, but you just don't save money. You have three useless ministers there. Since the symbol of corruption and the founder of ODS B, founder of TOP 09, some Kalousek says you should cancel those ministers and the chairman of the Pirate Party says he's a KO. Period. That's not how the Prime Minister criticized it. I used the word PR three dots, so that's cool, right? That says he's right, and he's right! I don't understand why you have these useless ministers. What else have we got? [[He's looking in the background.]] Yeah, you're still haunting the debt and the grandsons, but there won't be any grandsons. I mean, your birth rate is dropping because people are desperate to see what you're telling them, how you're scaring them. Yes, about the war, about the war. According to the KRIT team of the Interior Ministry, the word "peace" is a Russian narrative, so it is forbidden to talk about peace! Make sure you don't get caught up like that teacher. So what else do we have here? Anti-inflationary measures. And I don't understand, I don't know who wrote this to you. The supply chains and you've arranged the prices. Well, that's amazing. So I don't know -- maybe it would be good if the citizens wrote you what prices they'd like on these things, and if you did, if you could do that, if you could do that inflation, that would be great. Here you're commenting on the debate that there are so many enlisted members of the YES. This whole debate here, this whole measure of yours is useless, it's not gonna bring anything, you're gonna tax people, you're gonna scare the investors. Why would a foreign investor come here? If you look at the five-calice program and you repeat a hundred times that you're not going to raise taxes and now you're increasing them, who's going to believe you? Nobody's gonna believe you. Why would they come here? Are they all going to Poland or Hungary or Slovakia? Why would they come here? Who wants to do business in an environment like this where Monday is something and Friday is something else? And, of course, it turns out that there are five sides and one lobbied so that there is no excise duty on wine and the other lobbied for the books to be zero, because it is being made into politics. So you don't think about people, you just think about making it political. Well, the precautions, I'm curious. Of course, you're very lucky, because you're not doing anything, and the market is working somehow. And from all sides, for the government's media, they're convincing how fantastic it is. And you're still haunting how horrible it's gonna be. Again, I was showing you here that we took over the debt of the Czech Republic after you expelled it from 20 percent to 44 in late 2013, so we compressed it. I'm disappointed in Skopeček, Vice-President, he's not here when he says on TV yesterday in a debate with Karel Havlíček, "It's sad that for the past ten years, When the YES movement had a chance to do something, it didn't do anything. The only flagship was a botched EET. How can he say that? So it's a shame he's not here, and I could read to him here, and I did everything I did in politics, so I wrote it down. I published a brochure at the Ministry of Finance, and here's the material. My balance sheet meeting with the Prime Minister without the Prime Minister. [[He's showing the brochure.]] 'Cause when Sobotka and Bělobrádek saw that I was successful, they just fired me. And here are the numbers. We've saved 400 million for building operations. We've raised 604 billion extra taxes. I had a budget surplus of 62 billion; stop lying about the budget. We have fixed the public finances of the Czech Republic! We put in charge reports, the fight against the fuel frauds, the carousel stores, we pushed it 19 percent, I don't know, to 12. The increase in corporation taxes. Everyone's talking about it, we've done it, yes. If there are foreign corporations here and their mothers are charging them with all this crap and they're pulling that profit somewhere offshore, well, yeah, that's what we did. We have introduced measures to level up the business environment of 18 billion. And we ruined the gambling! We destroyed 20,000 vending machines. You're a gambling fan now! No? Especially Komárek. Looks like you don't like Dospiva right now, so it's always between him and him. So you want to lower your tax on Komárek. A colleague of Benda's tried it once. He's got so many billions, so why wouldn't he have more? Well, Dospiva's unlucky, 'cause maybe, I guess, nothing likes it better. [[With laughter.]] So here it's on paper, here it's all written down. N, and then when we're done with the government, and when Mr. Skopeček comes, I can give it to him, it's Babiš's book. Here's the book. [[He's pointing.]] And we were a minority government. If we had that position you had! I mean, those communists were still blackmailing us. And it's hard being in a minority government. But we had clear results, we evaluated the government's programming statement, we never said, covid came, you guys are unlucky, now we're cashing you in! We never did that. So please, speaking of which... And EET? I mean, the Karlovy Vary festival, thank bůh for finally being in the media space and for people to understand that those who don't give the receipts don't show sales, so they're just stealing from all of us, all of us. And our strategy, my strategy as Minister of Finance, was that I wanted to cut taxes, and we reduced them. And that we wanted everyone to pay. Because 4.5 million employees - no one asks and pays, pays, pays. [[9.50 hours]] So here you have everything, I don't want to talk about you blowing off sports, cultural monuments, health care - that's hell. Of course, you ignore the National Investment Plan by 2050, which we have prepared for you, because it was the government that did our, innovative strategy, science, research, everything, we just did everything wrong and you're doing everything great. Mr Skopeček also said that the package is definitely anti-inflationary, so we will see, but we will see this, of course, sometime at the end of 2024 or 2025. You're mostly lucky with the windfall tax, where, in my opinion, a lot of companies are going to pay a higher tax deposit, and in June 2024 you're going to have to come back, so the finance minister, I can hear him now, he's not going to pay back anything. And that's great to get financed by companies and people and then get paid back without interest. So, Prime Minister, Babiš's $27. 9. 2021, then Putinův was expensive, then you argued with Michl on May 5, 2023 about who was responsible. And yesterday, we learned again that you're the one who got us the low inflation. I think everyone was wondering about it and it's all nonsense, of course, because you were looking forward to inflation, you were looking forward to taking money from people, that everything was sold so that Mr. Stanjura could cash out the 260 billion in 2022 and 2023. And we'll see how it goes. So you guys didn't do anything against inflation, for people. And it was so easy. One - the CEZ minority, Kalousek also said it, buy it out for 200, 250 billion, and you could once again have a 100% company that has a LNG terminal in Eems, the Netherlands, which sells it, has 20% of the Czech gas market, which has lithium, which has power plants. And at least you could control something when you've already sold everything here into foreign hands, and that's why 280 billion go abroad every year. Of course, this is not happening within the European Union. Well, unfortunately, it's no longer irreversible. So I tried to be very specific here and Wednesday, and I gave the Minister of Finance my opinion, and of course he's manipulating the numbers that suit him, but it's clear that this tax package, or this package, is completely useless. If you didn't do anything and let it go and only took care of the collection of European funds, if you let EET do it, if you fought against employment on the black market, if you only did these things, then you could have had that revenue. Yes, now a windfall tax or a ceiling on electricity. I say we put electricity on the grid, it's a historic chance. Unfortunately, you don't want to do this. And, of course, if you push through the power of the division of ČEZ, it's going to be about the same tunnel as a 600-billion solarium or a 150-billion church restitution. In addition to Mr Skopeček's question about what we were doing at the Ministry of Finance, we finally started competing with outside legal services, and we stopped stealing money from environmental contracts. Have you forgotten that? Those were four times sold, somebody had that deal for $100 billion. We stopped that, too. Because I went into politics to fight corruption, to steal things that belong to all citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's what we're gonna keep doing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister not to make a mockery of himself, because the videos where, in May - honourable citizens - I have to see what the Prime Minister said in May - and now in July, and the time difference is minimal, so it is truly incredible. You haven't done anything against inflation, you haven't done anything for people, because you are simply an antisocial, incompetent government, a government of national tragedy. Let's hope that the damage that someone will be repairing after you in 2025 and 2026, will be reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u5	Thank you, Mr Milan Feranec is now in the debate. Mrs Renata Oulehlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President, dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we are actually discussing this law on the third day. Wednesday some 10 hours, yesterday some 12 hours of clean time. Dozens of Members appeared, individual tax increases were dealt with in detail, etc. I don't want to focus entirely on the details of individual laws, I'd just like to give myself a few generalizations to this law. As a matter of fact, not only of this, but also of what we are discussing, I take that as a part of it, which means both the law on the increase of excise duty on diesel and, in fact, the law on social insurance. I'll take that as part of something. I'll take care of this. The debate is going on in a way that a representative of the government, a minister who - I must appreciate it - is trying to respond that he is here all the time. I really appreciate that. I may not agree with the arguments, but I really appreciate it. And it would be weird if we agreed, that's for sure. So these government representatives are here and they say this is white. Then the opposition comes out and says: this is black. And that's actually how it goes for two days, which is normal on one side, it's politics, it's nothing else. On the other hand, I was wondering if it was because we didn't sort of clear up our terms at the beginning. It sometimes happens when there's an argument like this, and people don't clear up the concepts, then there's all sorts of communication problems. So maybe I'd like to try to clarify the terms of this law, which is said to be a consolidation package, or it's an austerity package. Let's try to get these terms straight. Perhaps it is not entirely consolidation if the Minister said that by consolidating it will be a 2/3 savings, 1/3 tax increases, according to the proposals that are, so it is almost one to one, the result I think is 73 and 78, if I am counting correctly. But the problem is, we're actually discussing tax increases, but what do we know about the savings? Yes, there was a presentation in the press conference, in the explanatory statement, like, three pages, but when do we see the result? I presume after submitting a draft state budget. But here they pay a little, in my opinion - tax increases are certain, savings are always uncertain. Well, at least I hope we'll discuss this final reading, I don't know what the exact timetable is, until at least after the draft State Budget Act has been submitted. Let's see if that's when they say "A," if there's a "B." That seems pretty logical to me. So consolidation isn't exactly economical in the sense of the three laws we're discussing - that's probably the problem because savings aren't being dealt with. And the fact that citizens pay more is probably not a savings, saving is about government spending. So what is it then? So, of course, it's a tax package. But I guess it's not enough to say it's a tax package. In my opinion, this is indeed the largest and largest tax increase. And now we can have fun - the last few years? As far as the most extensive in the sense that affects all taxes, I dare say that at least 30 years - the most extensive. [[10.00 hours]] As far as tax revenue is concerned, we can argue whether the announced 73 billion is, of course, more than, if I remember correctly, Kalouskův's package was 70, even though it was at other prices, so there could be controversy. But let's note one thing: the largest, largest tax increase in the last twenty-thirty years, I don't want to guess completely, doesn't present any Utopic-socialist government Prime Minister Špidla, or the Socan government, or, as you called us, the socan-populist. It's from the center-right government. And it's quite symbolic that you can compete for who's raised more taxes, or suggests raising taxes, whether it's the current middle-right government, or the Echtpravic one that presented Kalouskův's austerity package. So it's pretty symbolic. And now I'm saying it's the biggest and most extensive. As I've been going over these bills, who's gonna get hit by tax increases or tax changes? Perhaps all socio-economic groups will be affected, no doubt it will affect employees, yes, there is sickness insurance, taxation of non-cash benefits, partly income tax, where the limits for solidarity contributions will be reduced. But you have not forgotten the specific employees of state-owned enterprises, where you propose to reduce the allocation to the so-called FKSP - a fund of social and cultural needs - from 2 to 1 per cent. You have not forgotten the Railway Administration, which is a state organization, which is similar to a state enterprise, and the Czech Railways, where they have it by law, and many other public institutions. So it's for the staff. Okay. Students - I don't want to repeat everything here again, it's been said here. Of course it will affect them - discount on the student, adjustment of agreements on the execution of work, respectively. their subsequent taxation or levy. It will, of course, affect the elderly. And now I'm going to talk about the draft amendment to the Social Insurance Act, where, from my point of view, there are actually two main objectives of the law. The first objective is to say that it is an attempt to reduce the real pension of pensioners in the future, and that is the adjustment of the valorisation mechanisms both proper and exceptional. And the second goal is to make it as uncomfortable as possible to prevent early retirement. That's why the conditions are tightened. But, of course, it will also affect another group: the CFI - increase in social security contributions. When I read the Ministry of Finance's explanatory report on how they describe how much they contribute and how much they draw from the pension as if security, it reminded me of a little bit of this debate, it's a few years back, I don't know which Minister for the ČSSD, who talked about them being black passengers, he was talking about health insurance. It didn't sound like that, but it just reminded me of the debate. So that's fine. They're your constituents. Okay. These major socio-economic groups may affect everyone, but there are other entities, of course employers. We talked - corporate tax 2 %. The affected will be municipalities, cities, regions. I'm taking the municipality and the city according to the current property tax proposal, where you say it's going to be the state tax part and the local one. And interestingly, in the explanatory report, it says it's neutral for the municipalities when the state increases. It's not exactly that. I was a councilman in Olomouc, and I'm a representative. I mean, if the law had been passed this way and the tax had increased for the needs of the state, then the representatives probably wouldn't have increased more because they realized that citizens had some sensitivity to raising taxes. So the argument that it is neutral is not quite in place, virtually. where there are representatives who are a little bit interested in how the citizens are doing, so they probably won't go for any further tax increases. That's pretty logical. But then there are different groups. And now we can have fun - those who drive a car, motorists, highway signs, in the end there is actually an increase in excise duty, those who travel by public transport, there obviously will be an increase in the tax on diesel, those who fly by plane, there is a proposal for exemption of aviation petrol and diesel from excise duty so far for domestic flights. Of course, I assume that there may be a situation in the near future that this will be abolished for international in the fight for Green Deal and so on, because people have become used to flying to Egypt, and maybe the time will come when only those who can fly will really fly. That's not happening yet. So far, it's just a proposal for domestic flights. By the way, SFDI will also be affected by the fact that income, if I remember correctly, will no longer receive SFDI from the road tax. You'll probably tell him then, so borrow more money so it doesn't threaten the state budget. But also different groups. There was talk of beekeepers yesterday. Marie Terezie introduced the cancellation of the tithe. And the right-wing government again, it's not tithe, it's income tax. You haven't even forgotten the president when his income or pleasure is cancelled, nothing against it. I hope he doesn't veto your package for this, but I don't expect that. There's a waiver for the miners, even if it's a bit of an out-of-control rule. Okay. Building savings. So those who care, those who have something that saves, they have to be punished in some way. People who live healthy, or I don't want to say unhealthy, because they smoke because they drink alcohol because they go to the village for a draft beer, so you need to increase VAT tax from 10 to 21 percent, but even those who live healthy, do not drink, maybe go to sports events, cultural events, so they need to increase tax, you need to increase VAT from tickets. [[10.10 hours]] You haven't even forgotten the unemployed group, because there is a proposal to adjust the conditions for repeated unemployment that it will tighten up. So, really, when I was going through this, you did it very thoroughly. No one can be sure - or everyone knows that their taxes will increase. So that's really why I'm saying it's the most extensive. . I've been trying to go over all the tax laws that are changing, and I was wondering if I could find a tax bill that doesn't change that wouldn't be tax-raising. Sure, corporate tax is changing, personal income tax, real estate tax, value added tax, excise duty, gambling, payment for mining minerals, highway signs, toll - even there is some sort of adjustment. So I found maybe the only exception, and that's the road tax. But I don't know if anyone's gonna tell me there's another one, but nothing else. That's why I say it's the most extensive. This complex change in all taxes, almost all taxes, hasn't really been here for a long time. I remember when we were discussing the last foreboding tax package, our government, and I don't know if we had four - five laws, now I don't want exactly, it was excise duty, alcohol, tobacco, there were some insurance reserves and so on. And I'm saying it was a couple of laws, and it took 150 days. It took 150 days. And you put in a huge novel here, and you want it out of your hands as soon as possible. I see. So I say, with the exception of the road tax I found, all taxes are increasing. And again, the central-right government increases them. But not just to criticize, at the end of something positive. I think this package and the way it is discussed will go into history. The history of world literature. Probably most of you know a book or a 1984 movie by George Orwell, which describes some future, very gloomy, very gloomy, then. There's totalitarianism. They have the keywords. The ideology, the Angsoc, the English socialism. And the keywords are: war is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength... And I think if Mr. Orwell were still alive today, he'd add another password that fits. And the password would be, we're not gonna raise any taxes, we're just gonna raise all taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u7	Thank you. I have a message here. Mr Babka votes with replacement card number 35. Mrs Renata Oulehlová will now appear, Mrs Fialová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u8	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The consolidation package also includes issues or areas of DPP and DPČ, agreements on the implementation of work and work activities. I'm from Sokolov, I'm in charge of social issues and what I'm most proud of professionally, that I'm a co-founder of a mobile hospice. Unfortunately, changes will also affect this issue, including this area. And it is so that we use labour agreements especially in the positions of general nurses when they are impacted by labour. Therefore, it is not possible to plan exactly what their utilization will be. It means that we don't have a patient at the moment who completes his days, and maybe two weeks ago, we had five. And then we have to call in nurses who are on a deal where we really can't predict how many people we're gonna be in custody right now, and we can't afford to pay them part-time, because this is really so unpredictable that it's not possible. Plus, our organization's budget is very tight. As we all know, mobile hospices are still out of interest, outside some legislative anchoring, so we're really dependent on small donors, on the city, on the edge that provide us with funding, but it's really in hundreds of thousands. And this activity is really challenging, accompanying people at the end of their earthly existence is difficult, and even more difficult is caring for their families, who are really often desperate. In view of the conditions set by the amendment, it will be disadvantageous to conclude agreements and thus we will not be able to provide sufficient health care for clients in cases of leave or incapacity for work. Here I mean especially a home for seniors, which Sokolov City manages, which is the founder. I am very concerned that we will lose the existing co-operating negotiators, because they will also find this activity disadvantageous, as it will be taxed by a higher percentage and thus have less income. Most of them are nurses who make extra money and actually provide better for their family. We also use agreements with social services workers, in the same case as for the position of general nurse, as well as in cases where clients need to be accompanied for medical examinations or for other activities. If you are going with one client for an examination, for several hours you will actually drop out either one caregiver or one nurse and the remaining number of clients must serve or take care of a smaller number of employees. If we lose the opportunity to use the agreements, we will probably not be able to provide sufficient care. I can't imagine how we're gonna keep a record of the agreements, who's gonna pay the fees for people with agreements with multiple employers. The whole thing will be so administratively demanding that it will force us not to use the agreements at all, which, together with this, will lead to the need to increase the number of staff to the main employment, which will, however, not be able to be used as persons on the agreement, but will also serve at a time when the number of employees will be sufficient. But the already tense budgets will not allow it. Moreover, we are dealing with a shortage of staff in the labour market. Today, really getting a good caregiver or nurse is a superhuman performance, especially in some regions. [[10.20 hours]] We're really taking advantage of the negotiators. They don't usually have their shifts planned in advance. It is the best solution for acute staff shortage problems, because we have more in our records and there is a greater chance that one of them will be able to arrange a shift service, which is impossible for people with fixed shifts. I would also like to say that the people we employ for agreements are employed elsewhere for the main employment, so social and health pay from this source. The amendment doesn't make any difference between people working on the DPP and those working on the main employment. I, when I began to take a closer look at this issue, immerse myself in it, it was a surprise to me from our Karlovy Vary Region that - and I understand why you wanted to touch on it - there are citizens who cycle for example five, eight agreements. So he doesn't pay the main taxes. But if someone is employed on the main job, they do everything properly, and then they earn extra money from one employer, but helping the employer to cover the lack of staff, I don't understand why they should also be taxed in this form. And what I'm talking about is that it can happen that there's more supervision cycled and that person doesn't pay, I think this can only happen in big cities, because maybe in our region, I can't imagine that it would be possible. There's no way to work in so many companies to make a deal. The amendment will mean the end of employment on agreements and increase staff costs overall if we do not want to limit our services in their quality. I have to admit here that I am very concerned about this measure, and in organisations that are somehow well-saved financially, it will probably not be a problem. But I think that many mobile hospices, for example, will be forced - not God's way - to end the provision of their services. And believe me, I've been seeing a lot of people who don't want to talk about hospice because we may be aware of our own... that it's gonna happen to us, but that's the only justice in this world. And believe that when a person who leaves this world wants to go home and has such a great family that he wants to take care of it until the end of his days, so not only is it respectable that it is necessary, but those people need help. They need help not to be in pain, they need help to do it at all, because we often happen to spend a lot of time accompanying our family, because they are desperate, tired, and without the help of mobile hospices, I think their situation would get a lot harder, and maybe people would have to leave in hospitals in an impersonal environment again. I would just - please consider when someone is working on the main job and they have an agreement, one, if they could make an exception and really leave it in the current model. I'm begging you, and I hope we can work something out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u9	Thank you. Mrs Fialová will now appear, Mr Janulík will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will certainly not be long and I left my speech on the stand and came up with only a few comments that I wrote to myself during the discussion of this tax package. And I may have a few questions about the Minister and maybe other colleagues from the coalition, because there are a lot of question marks, maybe indications that he will be able to intervene in the tax package, so I want to ask how the Minister, what is the willingness to modify some parameters, because we will definitely want to prepare amendments, so that we know some that have meaning or do not make sense, because I understand what the Minister said, that there are five coalition parties, each has different requirements, and it reminds me a little bit, like when a dog and a cat cooked a cake. Everyone said to themselves, from the five sides that are important to him, this has been made a summarist and then discussed, so the willingness is not only on the Minister of Finance, but on all the political parties in the coalition, who wants to retreat from what demands and what is willing to give up in the context of their priorities, within the framework of the proposed tax package. [[What is it?]] We have already noted signs from KDU-ČSL that it should be touched on the VAT of sanitary women's needs, there was a discussion here about how infant water got into VAT 21 percent, why it is currently, when we are retreating from fossil fuels, fuel wood at a high rate, there was also a discussion about beekeepers, so if it is willing to discuss further the parameters of this... at all, how beekeepers will be approached and whether the number of hives will be re-established. And I also noticed in the opening speech of the Minister that he said that in kindergarten, one of the reasons -- and now I don't know if I got it right -- that in structurally affected regions, at least. I wonder if you were interested, Minister, why - because I'm from a structurally disabled region and you're taking the possibility... A lot of people in this county are going to another maternity leave. And those who use it, so you take it away from them -- those who need to earn a little bit of money, those who are not in a very economical way -- so maybe they're wondering why in structurally affected regions the least is the kindergarten, and who remains on the maternity, what is the composition of the population there, so maybe they'll take this resource for the families who use it in these regions, quite one of the major interventions in their family budgets. It seems to me that you said to the package who hasn't been affected yet, so we're going to add it, so we said, families with small children, we have to add, of course, bigger families where the students are already, we have to touch businessmen, and we all have to touch businessmen, and each of us lives somewhere, has at least one car, somehow transports to a job, whether by car or mass ash, we all have to bathe and eat, so we reach everywhere to collect as much money as possible. For this reason, I regret that savings are included in the explanatory memorandum. You have told us here that we will know the savings at the moment of the state budget specification, so it might be fair to the citizens to present this package only when you present a draft state budget so that citizens can see that you are actually saving on yourself and on the expense of the state and not just... You don't want to take money from all the citizens of this republic. [[10.30 hours]] And the last thing that I'm marked here and I'm intrigued by is gambling itself, because the gambling law is very widely understood in the package that you're presenting to us, about one of the most, that it's some sort of big label that often becomes part of some kind of way, or amendments by Members, so how - because it wasn't even considered in the original variants - it got there. And I will follow up on that, and you often blame us for not coming up with some suggestions. My colleagues here have presented a lot of proposals where we have told you that we certainly agree to increase negative phenomena such as excise duties on alcohol, cigarettes, etc. At the same time, we would agree to gambling. And to me, why don't you come up with some bold plan, which even reminded the MPSV, take all the profits or all the taxes into the state budget. So take it to the municipalities, try some bolder step of this character and don't touch so much in the wallet to ordinary residents. At the same time, we would definitely agree and we would like to discuss increasing fees for mining raw materials and other parameters. I'm sorry that all of us are really gonna pay for this, and there's no discussion here. I understand that you have had it very difficult within five different parties, which each has different priorities, but the crucial thing is, I'm going to beg you to answer me if you already know at the moment, now which things you or your colleagues are willing to touch, and in some way discuss how to make things better in some given areas, so that it is not so drastic. That would be all for me and thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, have a good morning. We have taken turns in the management of the meeting and the Minister of Finance reports with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u12	I wasn't sure if two minutes would be enough, so I took priority rights just in case. I'll try to answer all the questions. I'll try from the end. The increase in the fee for mining minerals is part of our recovery package. I just want to remind you that all the new resources will end up in the budgets of municipalities or regions. The state does not increase its current share. It's part of it, it's in one of those laws, this part of the law was written by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That means both for the extracted minerals and for the territory, the charges for the mining area are increasing. For the first time, part of these fees is to end in regional budgets and at the same time we increase the share of the municipalities concerned. I think it's the right move. I'm just reminding you that the state is leaving this whole increase to the budgets of self-government, whether regional or municipal. Why doesn't it go hand in hand, this bill, with a draft on the state budget? The answer is actually simple. The State Budget Act is only negotiated by the Lower House, standardly until 30 September, whereas this Act must be discussed by the Upper House. It could not be reconciled in time, so that it would be on January 1st, so that we could have this certainty. There is nothing else behind this, but there are volumes in the explanatory memorandum, and when I present the draft state budget, I will certainly return to that and show what specific items the savings are, because otherwise we would not be able to reduce the deficit for the state budget of 2024. When you asked about kindergarten, I said that we compared the number of children and then the percentage of the parental allowance, and also the statistics that we have from the financial administration, which are, of course, anonymous, the main reason why they are smaller in the structurally affected regions is because they will no longer be able to reach it because they will draw other discounts - low-income and lower middle class. That's just a fact. This means that this tax relief is primarily determined or used by the upper middle class. And we think that supporting low-income people is supposed to be a different form, not this tool, when it doesn't end with those who need the money. Generally, we do not agree that tax policy is not meant to be a means of social policy, because, of course, taxes are always flat. It can't be any other way. And let's talk about which groups and what form of assistance they are using other than in the tax system, but in the social system. Now I'm wondering what I haven't answered yet. I have already said at the press conference before the beginning of this meeting that I, as well as my colleagues, am prepared to carefully examine any amendments. I have not criticized that they are not yet, because we are at first reading, there is sufficient time to read the amendments. I was right to say that if the volume of savings is maintained and the idea comes up, an amendment from the opposition, which will be good or better or another instrument than we have proposed, then why not, but we will hold the debate between second and third readings. Depending on what amendments will be read, I can now say nothing for myself except that we will really carefully assess this, and it is not that I say in advance that no amendment will come. At the same time, however, I say that we want to maintain the overall amount of savings for both 2024, 2025 and some speeches during the debate, from opposition speeches, I understand that perhaps you would choose other instruments or other methods. Well, I'm sure we'll make a careful assessment. And I feel like I've answered everything. If not, I'm sure the Member will ask me to answer what I forgot at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u13	Thank you. A point of fact, Madame. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u14	Thank you so much for your answers. I'm just gonna get back to that kindergarten. I understand the amendments, so you're willing to discuss everyone. And kindergarten. Thank you for that explanation, and I'm just sorry, I don't want to see more and more middle-income people falling into low-income groups of people who can become thanks to this tax package, which you're preparing to drop a lot more people there, and their efforts to secure more funding for their normal lives to fall into some other social aid because it's undignified for them because they're really trying. I'm talking about this group of people, not helping people who don't deserve it. And I wouldn't want more middle-class people in these parts to fall into the low-income ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u15	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll read one apology. Within 12 hours, Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes for reasons of work. And we will continue the general debate. Mr Miroslav Janulík will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This item is called consolidation of public budgets, it's called a tax package. It was said that, of course, it had to be quite logical for everyone. Some will find it more, some less. The balance or the logic in that, I don't know, I daren't judge that at all, but, of course, there's never a man in the world who can please everyone. It's logical that someone gets more, less, and that balance is hard to find. But I ask, of course, from my life, from my experience, from my work, I ask for the meaning of it. Why are we even here? Or why the state works? And I am asked by my fellow citizens, by my patients or by my friends, or especially by young people, what is the point of such a state where a person works, and, in essence, figuratively speaking, he cannot make a living for his honest work. [[10.40 hours]] It's hard to answer that, especially me. I'm de facto, the first half of my life we lived in totalitarianism, and that's just the way it was, that's when it wasn't being dealt with. After my studies, I got a salary that I couldn't live for, that was just out of the question. Nobody cared, it was just assumed that you could just handle it and that's where the passwords were born: Who doesn't steal, steals from family and so on and so on. But even recently in our state, young people could simply provide for housing, either rent or take a mortgage and get housing, normally work and exist as they imagined to exist in the 21st century. This means that they have a reasonable reward for their work, and for that reward they buy the things they want and not just the things they want, but the experiences, because there comes a generation that far more than the things they take for granted, prefers time and experiences, terminus technicus - we want to enjoy it. I don't know what's behind this, but I hear it a lot. And now I can't. Something happened, of course, a covid came in, which, of course, mixed us up with the whole world. It wasn't just our specialty. And now the covid is over, and all of a sudden, those young people can't afford the rental or their housing as they've been used to up to now. He's just going back to his parents. And suddenly they find - I see it in practice, that suddenly they delay motherhood. Suddenly they say, you know, you had it kind of planned, but now, of course, the war, of course, which war is and isn't, or it's a point of view. But these people are scared enough, and I'm experiencing things I didn't know I was going to experience. Every economist, of course, I also read where what and economists said that politicians should positively motivate people and call them if they are not like Churchill during World War II, but not scare them and simply limit domestic consumption, because it is ultimately the pull of the economy. We all know how it works, that somewhere the money, the first one has to be made and created, and everyone else is from the secondary and tertiary sphere and so on. But telling people that everything is wrong is a political-economic suicide that I'm looking at all the time, I'm staring at it in disbelief. That's one point of view. The thing that goes hand in hand is that when you marry two people, they have two children, it's a simple reproduction, so it doesn't grow, it doesn't fade. So, basically, I would say this to a population growth that is certainly desirable, not somehow dramatic, but certainly desirable is, we all want that, we don't want to be reduced, but in order for us to grow in a reasonable way, now everyone can reasonably explain how they want it, so people should have three children. The argument is quite clear. Now, let me ask you, have any of you ministers tried to put three car seats in the Octok? You just don't put them in there. 'Cause these people are gonna tell you about the Octok or the regular car, three car seats can't be put, we can't go anywhere, we just can't. So these people need... they say we'd love to, but having a third baby, either it has to be a big distance, or it's just a big luxury, so we need a bigger car, we need a bigger apartment so we can have one extra nursery. Or when we were building that mortgage house, we needed some extra money, but we just couldn't. Here we go again. We don't have to come up with what's already been made up. The one you mocked and scribbled by Orbán in Hungary. Otherwise, I suggest you go over there and listen to people talk, they won't let him, I don't blame them, so he figured it out a long time ago, and he found out that if these people positively motivated them to contribute to the bigger car to put the three car seats there. And when the state just benefits from living, when they need another room, it just works. Another is that the local citizen, who has three children, is to be 50 percent exempt from tax. [[unintelligible]] When he has four kids, I guess he doesn't pay at all. Like a woman with four children. So there's no need to invent what's already been made up and works, but again I appeal to it, let's give it all back some sense. Because otherwise, it doesn't matter. The young people say, "What's a state like that for? Why the state is when we can't live here as normal. And we see, fortunately, we are no longer beyond the fence, as we have been fenced for 40 years, and only across the fence have we seen how wrong it is... The young people see today that there are states where it just goes, where it works. It's interesting that they solve roughly the same problems everywhere, whether it's in Dublin or Tel Aviv or Prague, it's all so expensive living everywhere, which has some reasons, but the reasons are probably global, I don't know, that's for the experts. But it's weird when I heard the same lamentations in Tel Aviv last year and the exact same in Dublin, and they're all dealing with the same thing because the housing problem, the young people have nowhere to live because it's just not acceptable to them. And if you look... like all this talk about housing phenomena and rent and such, poppy, we really weren't used to giving that kind of money for living. It's just, like, historically, it's kind of evolved around here. But I'm saying, now it's basically the whole world. But it has something to do with the meaning of existence, and that's the beginning of that life. And we've moved here over the years without even noticing, I've become a senior, and suddenly a guy like retirement is in sight, and he finds out, and then a farmer from the Highlands here tells him that this pension is better than we're supposed to count on. We've been paying for our whole lives, of course, a man like... we're a generation who... we're the pullers, we're not the breeding people, so we've just been working our whole lives. So I've been keeping a hoe or pitchfork in my hands, and we're just as used to it, and now that we're getting closer to the fact that you're probably tired and that the body just has its limits, we're gonna find out that it's not gonna be too much like a happy and dignified old age. [[With laughter.]] But again. We're gonna look over the old fence into Austria and we're gonna see that somehow they found that way and it's working for them. And that's where the pensions are, I think the average Austrian pension is 83 percent of the average wage, that it's significantly more. There are pensioners very good target customer group because they have a relatively large amount of money and relatively little time to spend it. Then why does it go in there and it doesn't work with us? Now, of course, I'm gonna interrogate the seniors who come to me, and they're gonna say, "Well, I'm just gonna... Now something's added to me, thank God for it, because that's the generation that used to keep quiet because they were afraid of what side it was coming from. And they're gonna say, I'm not gonna come out of it, because everything's just getting so expensive right now. The Prime Minister boasts how it worked out, well, fart did it. 'Cause go out there and listen. And of course the demographic tree is relentless, then you have all of them widows, those women around the 70s, men dying. And then they're on their own and they say, well, what do we do? Should we go get all those doses now? You say we shouldn't count on it so much that the state isn't from that. And on the other hand, I'm gonna read in Headline's paper that we're gonna be buying 100 billion-dollar fighters. So you don't have the money for us, and you have the money for it. You arm the way the communists did. You know, balance the whole thing out and put it in context, it's just so hard. And it's hard to explain that we don't have each other, because every mother helps her child first and then the stranger. And this state is called the Czech Republic, so it is primarily about our citizens, they voted for us, they sent us here. I don't know about anybody else. Hardly then, of course... Something else is helping, something else is when it's going to the edge. But then, if we don't have the money for this, we can't afford to add and improve the quality of this life, but we have the money for other things. Now the question is, who gives us or gives you the right to do so? On such fundamental matters, I would really be leaning towards a referendum. Let these people decide, we are representative democracy, and each of us represents some voters. And that voter's opinion needs to be respected, and I think that right now, in the media that we live in, when a journalist's opinion is more substantial than that of a democratically elected politician with a rich life experience, that's just how it is, like now, isn't really the time to ask those people about it, like in the referendums? How do they imagine that? After all, we know how it works in other states. And those arguments that they don't know and that we are then or you are the chosen ones and the anointed, do you know how it's supposed to be? This is communicated from above, by God's will, or I don't know what it is. I would really, even for a futura, like I'm floating around for so we can finally get to the bottom of this and some... I mean, in my whole life, all I ever listen to is referendums. That it should, it should, it shouldn't. [[10.50 hours]] And why doesn't anybody want it? Like people would decide differently than we do? In that case, we're next door, not them, that's logical, isn't it? Because we represent those people, and if they say no in the referendum, then no. Look at the Brexit, people just didn't want to, so they didn't want to, they got off at the Union, the world didn't screw up. Everything goes on, albeit with some problems - I wouldn't really have the right to make decisions like God, that now it's better not to give money to retired people and buy tanks for it. I don't know. I don't know what they say in Slovak, if it's better to be badly alive or well dead. I just don't know. I'm gradually getting to the fact that we're actually calling it some packages right now, and that generation of people who are retired today, so for their taxes, for their money, those Dukovany, those Temelinas and all that, and now they're supposed to pay for that huge energy. And why is that? If we were alone, fenced, and there was no telecommunication and Internet, these people would say, like we said on a tourniquet, nobody knew much. Those of us who could watch Austrian TV, we knew. Today it is not possible when electricity is worth CZK 1.50 in Slovakia or Spain, why should I pay CZK 6? And then I look, I think the Španěl don't have that many power plants. So there's probably a mistake somewhere, somewhere there's a buried dog, but we're here from not explaining why it has to be, but if they don't agree - and it's human nature that no one wants to pay when they don't have to, or pay a lot, everyone wants to pay a little. Now I'm getting there, and I've said it here before, I don't think I'm gonna live to see it, but I'd love to experience it - for me, the word deflation is like a yeti. Everyone's talking about it. No one's ever seen him. I'd like to experience deflation, I'd like to experience the fact that I'm coming tomorrow and it won't cost a hundred crowns, but eighty. It won't be a discount event, but it'll just be deflation. Everyone - Jesus Christ, deflation, but no one has ever seen it. We all know what inflation means all the time. When you come to the store, they wash it. It's almost like a bitcoin that you buy it one piece at a time, but it's really fancy food today. [[Fun in the hall.]] I didn't think I could live to see it, but I can, because this development is going in this weird way. In health care, of course we're already memorials, so I remember that the pharmacy used to have 3000 items of product range around 1989 or 1990, then I think it was about 15,000, today I think it's roughly over 35,000 items that the pharmacy normally has in its range. That would be confirmed by the lady here, through. But we remember the time that some medications were just for some, that the master had a wardrobe that had OV code written on it, no one else had a chance and we didn't have anything to treat those people, or we were cowering our shoulders. But today we got used to it, really 20, 25 years is an incredible product range. The question is whether it's good or bad, it's overused again and so on, but we haven't experienced anyone - I'm coming to the office, I'm taking the phone first, and I'm calling down to the pharmacy, what do you have or don't have what I'm supposed to prescribe? It's a perpetuum mobile. I'm gonna examine the patient, I'm gonna put the recipes out, and he's gonna knock back in a minute that they don't have it. They call the city and they don't have it. I think there's a mistake. Then here's the minister we know, speaking perfectly professionally. When I look at Twitter, it's like Jekyll and Hyde on his Twitter, it's just for a psychiatrist. But it doesn't solve the problem. The problem is, I'm gonna cross the border a little bit next door, and I'm gonna buy what's not here. The nurofen in the syrup is just there. So it's not true what he says is true, and I say life convinces us every day. Then I also experienced here that -- there was always money in the health system for former governments, we still heard this, and we know that the system was built, the "insurance system" was built as weird as it is, it's a long debate. However, money was always pouring in, hospitals were withdrawing, it was almost complete folklore every time it was unbearable and so on, and those payments of 180 and 360 days and more and conquering impregnable claims and then suddenly there was money in the health system, because the payment for the state insured who used to be shamefully low had just been repaired and thus the money appeared in the health care system, which of course logically had to be spilled over. The arguments that were made here that the insurance companies had it in their accounts, and what would they do with it before they sent it to the medical facility? The law doesn't allow them to do that any other way. They can't eat it in sandwiches, they just have to send the money in the finals to the medical facility. So the argument that they have money in their accounts, and that's why we're gonna take some away from them was totally stupid. That's what's gonna happen now, because we won't, as soon as the European standard is applied to overtime, we're gonna find out that the faculties are gonna deal with it, but all the little hospitals aren't gonna have doctors in their service at the same time. Today it turns out that the money is no longer a motivation. I say, here comes a generation that says, "For us, a commodity is more valuable time than money, because what's money for when I can't live it and enjoy it?" So it turns out that there's a doctor in the hospital who serves all the departments, because it's just not gonna be manageable. And you don't shake those doctors off your sleeve, and they won't even eat. People behave not as we want, but as their human nature commands them. That's what the clouds of empires and states and dictators have come to, and you can do whatever you want, just the natural biological behavior is like that. When you have a hole in your bucket, the water flows out, that's logical. That's why if you show them where the hole is, they're all gonna shove into early retirement because there's just this hole. No one can blame them for that. Now it's probably waiting for you, because now it's going to be settled that there's no money in health, there's no money, but there won't be those people, and there won't be money that you'd be making people - because the older generation, the older generation, they still hear the money, it's motivational for that, but it's not gonna be possible for the law, or it's not possible for those people like I mentioned here to just show a hundred overtime hours a month or a thousand hours a year, which was normal, normally I've been there. And now it turns out that they actually should have had vacations for it and had to retire early, not work until 65 or under 70 years of age. I know that society is in the way of calling it - that's not pension reform. Pension reform would look completely different, but these are only in the quotation marks parametric adjustment, which, of course, causes the ideal pensioner to be the one who asks for the pension and dies tomorrow. That's already been known for the turntables. I'm not an expert. Here were Potůčkův and I don't know what commission, all sorts of things, and no one solved anything. Now it's 2023 and we're still in circles and how we bite our own tails and actually we're all still talking about it, but we know it's basically not a solution. Now the state is pouring money into it, there's always a decision to make, see for example sickness insurance, which has always ended with a surplus. All of a sudden, once the reliefs are done there, it's going to end up in a deficit, because of course, it's being massively abused. People who aren't at all incapable of work have a disability. That's another debate, too. There's a lot of money running. But again, we still see-- now we're just talking about the revenue side. It surprises me from you as from the ODS side, although it's all different over the years, but you do know that the willingness of these people to participate in it and to pay significantly decreases with how much we want them to pay. I'm going to give you an example, and I'm going to experience dozens of these examples when people say, so far we've been paying 5 960 a month or how much the flat-rate payment, when it was health, social and some small tax, we've given it to the state 70 a year. [[1000]] Now, let's do it simple: we interrupt the business, we keep doing the job, but, of course, it's black because the EET is canceled, no one's ever gonna see the document, and we're gonna register at the employment office, and we're gonna get 70 more in that six months. [[1000]] So the state, as a matter of fact, the Treasury, we all lose not 70, 140 grand each year. You call that a thoughtful decision? Or I don't know, it's just shooting into your own leg. Anybody can think of that. Every self-employed person who knows that two and two are four says, "If it's not enough for you, I won't give it to you." [[11.00 hours]] You know it's not possible for anyone or velký bratr to check out all millions of people here in this republic. Now, of course, by shutting down the EET - we had this debate here yesterday. Well, of course the guy who took the cards yesterday and doesn't want them today wants only cash today, so why does he want it? Well, because he wants to hide sales, right? What's different from stealing? Well, it's stealing. You can call it what you want to call a generous and rude suspect we've been listening to. Now it's not just a suspect, is it? It just worked. Today, at least I can see that they didn't even turn it off, they just don't send data because it allows them to track the staff. Anyone who has ever done something, which I experienced in the 1990s on my own, knows that it is simply relentless in the end. The development's going in there anyway, and it's gonna run out, yeah. So we can, I don't know, anchor these constitutional rights to cash payments or whatever they can think of. So I don't know, I have one cardinal question. Not the technique here, but the question of the meaning. Because you keep saying we're in debt. I've been listening to this my whole life. I've been listening since the revolution, tightening your belts -- so he didn't tell President Klaus, but somebody put it in his mouth to tighten his belts -- and now you're gonna cut yourself off and it's gonna get better, and now you're gonna hang in there. If you've just been listening to it for 35 years, it's just eating a little bit now. It's like the grandsons... Well, we were the ones who owed us, like before. We paid those debts, and now our kids are grown up and they have kids again. It's just an endless story, and the rhetoric is still the same, it hasn't changed. I'm saying, unfortunately, there's a comparison tonight. I'm just gonna watch the Austrian news, or I'm gonna run over the 1,200 meters next door to Austria, and no one's using that rhetoric. Those seniors are doing very well, but I haven't heard that they'd live well at the expense of the young generation, that they're indebting their grandsons. I didn't hear that. When I tell my friend, who's 85 years old, to Hans, who drives a new SUV every year, I say, Hans, but you have twice as much debt to GDP as we do, you have 84 percent, I think Austria has a GDP debt. So he says to me, Ich nicht, I have no debts. So I just can't hear it anymore, either, because, of course, when it happens all the time, you can't see it. Because of what? Our parents indebted us, too. I have, then, when I come to the cemetery, to pilfer on the grave, that therefore: You have indebted us, yet they had to pay all their lives. That's completely nonsense rhetoric for me, and I just don't want to hear it anymore. So, of course, somebody's gonna have to pay those debts someday. But then how do those states where it's clear that it's incorruptible? How do the United States do that if everyone knows it's incorruptible, the debt? I don't know, and it doesn't bother them. They always make a deal there, don't they? Those tens of millions of Američan are living their lives, and they always do. These are the academic debates that the economists are having, and then the inflation comes and all of us are going to get our hair done. You probably know why you're doing this, or you're not too ignorant to know. That's the difference between smart and cunning, at least for me. But you're comparing purposefully incomparable. Because really, until three, four years ago, that life was easier for those people -- at least because they made this whole thing easier. Then, of course, the covid and the drapes and somethin'. But that life was just incomparably easier, and those people feel it and ask why. So what's the point of all this -- once again, I ask -- what's the point? You're saying, Ježíš, there's going to be 400 billion now. Those are so fictitious numbers! But on the one hand, you're going to say that we just can't have that kind of debt, and then a line that I'm going to read that fighters are 100 billion or 60 or BVP 60. That's such a terrible discrepancy! I'm saying I'm talking about it here because I don't feel competent and gifted to make decisions like this for people. I would really ask for that referendum, because one day we will be responsible for all of this, you and we will be responsible. We're all futures and exes, all sitting here. Everyone thinks it's for ages. Even those mosquitoes for eternal times and never look differently. So why not ask these people, do not make a referendum, ask, "How do you want to do it? Or ask those questions. Because no one is smarter or has the right to think that he is gifted to make decisions for others and to have the right to decide for them that they will have more expensive bread. So consider if there really isn't enough time before we're here to argue about packages, to quickly make a referendum, to finally make it happen, to make it happen, that you can make a referendum about it or that and just do it, okay? He's outnumbered the possibilities. I have a lot on my mind, but I'll let my colleagues go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u17	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Josef Flek apologizes from 11 to 14 o'clock for business reasons. Mr Petr Liška apologizes from 11 to 14 o'clock for business Robert. Mr Pavel Růžička apologizes from 12 o'clock for work Stržínek. We will continue the general debate. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear, Mr František Petrtýl will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've prepared quite a lot of things, but since most of these things have been heard so many times, I think we're gonna wake up at midnight and we're gonna be able to quote some information, I'm gonna cut it a little short. For example, here I have prepared three beautiful pages, where entrepreneurs summarized how this is disadvantageous for them or how it will limit them, damage them. But I'm not reading it here. We're all literate. That's a guide to enterpriseanim.cz. Open it there, you can all read it beautifully. I think after the three days we've been here, you wouldn't even be able to see me. So when you get some rest over the weekend and get some sleep, you can read it and study it. I don't quite understand why we're taking such steps either. Or what about us? Why the government is taking steps the way it does. I keep thinking that it should be recalled that we are Czech politicians, we have been elected by Czech citizens and we are paid from the taxes of Czech citizens. That's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. So we should probably be interested in Czech citizens first. Of course, when I see a strange child in distress, but at the same time my child will be in trouble, it's quite natural - and it's not that I'm a non-human - just the first one I save is my child, and if I have the energy and strength left and my child is safe, then I'm gonna jump for the other child. I'm just not gonna leave him there, but the priority is my baby. That is why I think that, for us as Members of the Czech Republic, the Czech citizens should be in the first place. That's exactly what I don't understand. We, at times when our republic is not at its best and we see it, or at least we should see that our population is in trouble, so we tell them that they should be limited, that they should be narrowed down in all spheres, but at the same time we are taking large loans, which the Czech citizens will then repay, and in their nature they will have nothing of it, because they already know in advance that the funds will be used for other countries, for other citizens. So it's quite logical that the tension in the company is quite naturally increasing. We can't blame them. We want people to save money, we don't do it ourselves. If we don't set an example, they'll never trust us and it'll get worse. Our international diplomacy is no longer international diplomacy, these are activist trips. Because diplomacy depends on every gesture, every look. The primary objective of international diplomacy should be to have maximum good relations or acceptable with as many countries as possible, so that this is beneficial for citizens of the Czech Republic. I was threatened when I found out that there is a theory here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic should not have in the interests of the Czech Republic, but other interests, as if we looked good or I don't know. Until now, I thought that all the work of foreign diplomacy of the Czech Republic should be such that the Czech Republic would benefit from it. As I found out, I was wrong. We are very willing to implement a huge number of various bureaucratic nonsenses from the European Union, on the basis of which the bureaucratic agenda will grow. [[11.10 hours]] Because, of course, there's more and more. We have to accept some officials, because who else is supposed to know about it and who is going to work with it in some way. Energy prices have already fallen here, my previous speaker, my colleague Janulík, through Mr President, I agree with him how you want to explain this when we are energetically self-sufficient, but we also pay - especially when we take it not only for the conversion, but for the purchasing power - the most unrivalled. People will never understand, we can say any pretty thing here - how we don't know who we are, and they just don't really care. They don't care about an international image of our republic and how everyone pats us on the shoulders. Citizens are interested in paying bills in peace so that they have what they need to live and not start getting into situations where they have to wonder if they have the basic needs of life. As far as Green Deal is concerned, I am in favour of nature conservation, I like nature very much, but it has to be done in a reasonable way and not simply by jumping off a waterfall with the idea that it will turn out somehow. Well, that's how it turns out, whoever jumps out of that waterfall always does, it's if he survives. And I wonder if we are even dealing with whether not just the Czech economy, but even the European economy - if the green fanaticism will survive our economy. That there are some changes in the climate and so on and so on, they are, but to somehow survive them, we're gonna need a hell of a lot of economy and finance to get through these problems. And we're still the source of the funds so we can make it, we're just killing. We're going to be suffocating the self-employed, yes, those people are taking relatively little, but they're taking away. And they don't ask much of the state. Firms that are handling the economic crisis relatively well so far, which, of course, doesn't have to be endless, well, we're gonna put them on the line by increasing income taxes. Why is that? There's too many points where I feel like we're punishing success, surprisingly. It's just that we should appreciate success, we should appreciate anyone who doesn't reach out to the state who's active, who's doing it to make a living on their own. Let us appreciate it and make it easier for such people to be as much as possible so that more people are interested in working independently, not that we are going to throw sticks under their feet and then brag about paying off for various support and so on, more and more. Perhaps the interest of the state should be that the state should really pay off only the most necessary, and the economically active population able to work, so that it is not a burden for the state, but an asset. We created three new ministries. Why on earth? I mean, I know somebody's gonna say-- in that state budget, it's a drop in the ocean. Yes, but a drop to the drop, and then we have the problem. We have a system that's functional here, we decide to cancel it, replace it with some software that has neither head nor heel, and now you've got everything you can, banks, insurance and all that, and now we're gonna cancel it with some kind of code. Now, if you come to a doctor or someone wants you to have some identification code, you say your birth number, everyone remembers it without a problem. Well, now there's going to be a generated number, I looked at it, there's these big letters, there's not even a genius, it's just going to be totally pointless. Now, if you write your birth number wrong, the system will alert you, because there's a simple system, the system will immediately reveal it. Now that I've got one letter mixed up in this number that's meaninglessly generated, it's gonna be wrong, but the system won't let me know, it has no way of revealing that it's there... It's just headless and heelless. So we're putting in a lot of trouble here, and there's something that's going to cost us in the future and that's going to cost us a lot of extra money regularly, even in situations where the economy rises, it's going to be good, but the money that we could use more meaningfully, so we're going to put into this kind of nonsense. In summary, I just don't think it's a consolidation of public finances. I would simply take it if there really were significant proposals to reduce expenditure. When I look at the package from the top, from the bottom, I just feel like most of the stuff that's in there is about getting more money, not less spending. Yes, there are a few such proposals, and some may even make sense, but they simply prevail to squeeze out more of the citizens. And it's quite logical that the population will never like that, will it? This is a flat-rate increase in VAT, we will increase taxes on all types of natural and legal persons, another sharp increase in real estate tax, plus an inflation rate, which will make housing property and rent more expensive. Why? I've heard such an argument that the real estate tax is actually very low against other states. Yes, but we also have to look at the purchase price. And the average citizen - how long he's been earning from his salary on that property! And there we are completely - there it is completely catastrophic. We've got a guy here who decides not to depend on someone, gets his own place, and we're gonna punish him for it. Then I read in the paper that we will solve housing problems by not owning real estate. And in vain, I'm looking for some logic, somebody always has to own something, so who owns the apartments, when the Czech citizens shouldn't be. So, aliens, or who? As a state, so as a socialist, we'll just have state housing, the state will allocate the apartments, so we'll go back somewhere we don't want to be. Or will it be owned by foreign owners if it is not meant to be Czech citizens? But I guarantee you that the foreign owner will give such rents and the way he's used to from his states, and those salaries are a hell of a lot different than here in our country. So it just doesn't make sense to me. And the last drop is that we're talking about the fact that the funds should be stabilized and, of course, our interest is to do as much tax as possible, etc. Of course, but we must have a sufficient number of workers, even in the future. And if anyone thinks they can save the labour market by importing migrants, yes, there will certainly be some foreigners who study with us, receive university education and benefit, but still the vast majority of those who will vacuum the system in some way and will not benefit economically. So it would probably be ideal if they were the children of our families who have cultural ties to our state, and then they would create those values. But that's what we need to support working families with children, and if we do everything we can to make a working family with children well, decently, those children will be born, and that way we'll have a future. And here, what do we have? Cancellation of kindergarten fees, limitation of tax discounts on a wife or husband, and this is how I can proceed. That means, here we should be like -- it's nice to save, but not at all costs. We have to somehow make this system work to keep it running, so we have to supply it with energy in some way, which means if we're going to strangulate, we're going to cut it off, so we're essentially going to kill the system so we're not just not going to get more out of this system, which is our interest, but in the end we're going to get less and less and less and we're going to be dealing with this situation over and over and over and over again, never stopping in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u19	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. We will continue the general debate. Mr František Petrtýl will now appear and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, let me also comment on the tax package, although much has already been said, there have been a lot of contributions, so I have actually reduced my contribution very much so that I do not repeat myself in vain everywhere. I would just like to draw attention to some of the effects of the tax package. In its essence, no group of residents can be sure of the steps of the ruling five-calice, and the state has not even spared young people. It is clear that the government has set up its declared fiscal consolidation and has only promoted the increase and disruption of the benefits to the citizens it has chosen. The government immediately reduced the discount on student fare in the first year of its operation. Originally it was a 75 percent discount, which was humiliated to 50 percent of the full price. The government doesn't help too many students or universities, where life on rails gets cheaper logically, and their tax discounts are canceled. If this continues, it will manifest itself in the reduced interest of our youngsters to study. At the same time, the proportion of university-educated people in the population of 25 to 34 years, which is actually those who have completed higher education, is one of the lowest in the Czech Republic throughout the European Union. Another impact of this package is on VAT. The coalition parties before the election promised not to increase taxes. And what is the reality? Promises melted like steam over a pot. So what are we waiting for? The system of three VAT rates will be abolished. The two reduced rates, which have been between 10 and 15 per cent so far, will blend into one reduced rate of 12 per cent. The basic rate of 21 per cent remains in force. The exception will be books with zero VAT. Services and goods which have been subject to a 10% tax so far will be up by two percentage points. It will include, for example, the supply of heat, water and sewerage, catering services, medicines and certain pharmaceutical products, accommodation services, admission to theatres, cinemas, magazines, transportation and so on. Of the 10 percent jump by 11 percentage points to the basic rate of cleaning, hairdressing and barber services, repair of footwear, bicycles and leather products, other printed matter, newspapers and previously so much discussed beer. Jump of 6 percent from 15 to 21 percent will record drinks regardless of whether they are alcoholic or non-alcoholic. Furthermore, there will be cut flowers, fuel wood and municipal waste work. It is worth mentioning the transfer of newspapers and drinks into the basic group, where several times mentioned here, that, for example, pornographic magazines will be burdened at a lower rate than newspapers that are not lucky. 21 per cent VAT will also be charged to all drinks including unflavoured waters. Although the original intention to disadvantage unhealthy sweetened drinks was thus somewhat lost. Another impact will be the social and health insurance of entrepreneurs, where the compulsory assessment base of self-employed workers should be increased from 25 per cent of the average wage up to 40 per cent, with a reduced basis in the first three years of business. While the minimum premium is now approximately 2,900, after adjustments it will be 4000, approximately 4,700 crowns. What I am very sorry about is the increase in real estate tax. Actually, it's a double increase and regular valorisation. The increase of property tax to roughly double will affect the vast majority of Czech households, because the structure of property housing in the Czech Republic is different from abroad. In the Czech Republic, about 80 percent of the population live in ownership housing. Therefore, real estate taxes cannot be compared between the countries of the European Union. Nor can it be accepted the argument that it is only a hundred increase. It doesn't have to be true on one side. There are locations where it can be significantly more. But it is inevitable to take this increase in real estate in the context of the entire tax package. The Czech Republic has a huge decline in real prices in its history, and thus we are also getting a rise in real estate taxes. Real estate prices in the Czech Republic are a big problem. We're in a housing crisis. Real estate prices have grown enormously lately. I, as a man who has spent my whole life in construction, have actually turned his head sometimes, because the prices have grown into completely incredible and senseless heights. But luckily, it's really stabilized lately. Still, I think raising real estate tax is the wrong way to go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear, Mr... [[This is Mr. Razor.]] I don't have your application, Mr. Ambassador. Did you report with a factual remark? In that case, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u22	Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to the question of Miloš Janulík, who asked the question here, why are we doing this? Well, not us, but why does a five-caliber do it? Summarize? Chairman Fiala says: We have a catastrophic state of finances! Mr. Stanjura didn't say we didn't have a catastrophic situation, he said we weren't in such a heated situation. I'm not exactly quoting him. Mr. Fiala says we do it for people! Stanjura says the same thing: we do it for the future of people. Mr. Fiala says these are unpopular things. Mr. Stanjura says these are unpopular measures. Both agree that they are, that it is, that actually people carry the burden. We're doing this for the people, they're gonna carry it all. We were the sixth best, now we're the eighth in the debt in Europe. So what do people say about it? I respond because Miloš asked, no one responded. So what do people say? Well, people say we don't trust the government. Or, to be honest, we only believe 32 percent of people believe in government. And so the answer is, why are we doing this? I answer as if I were building for that government. I'll tell you, 'cause we don't like people. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u23	So your factual point, therefore, now duly registered Mrs Mračková, Vildumetzová, will be prepared by Mr Jan Kubík, Oldřich Černý and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, and I, too, would like to speak in the general debate on the consolidation tax package, which is here, and I must say at the outset that the Minister of Finance said yesterday if it was necessary to consolidate public finances. And I think we agreed that we did. But I would just divide my performance by the fact that I'm bothered that what's being presented here primarily affects the taxes and taxes on real estate, corporate taxes, tax increases on various things, such as hairdressing, barbers' services and so on, but practically there's no expense in the material. They'll come, they'll be in the draft budget next year. And that's why it's working so far and that's why we're saying it's a consolidation tax package. And I was performing here last night, and I made it clear that when the Minister of Finance said, what is it that bothers you? I have to do it again. What bothers us, above all, is that the government and the whole five-wheeler don't start with each other. I, when I talk to people, a lot of people understand. And if you're sitting in those benches, go to those towns and villages and ask those people. They really hate that the government has the most ministers today. I keep saying that, they won't fit in those benches. We have countless political deputies. You've passed a new service law. Since 1 January, 40 political deputy ministers have been added to the resorts. The Minister of Finance here yesterday defended the people he has at his department. I took the job yesterday, and I went through the various departments, and I really had to wonder completely to pause over the fact that we have a minister for legislation and his deputy, I will be correct, he is, of course, a member of the Czech Pirate Party, who has neither a university education nor a legal education, but he is a deputy for legislation. [[11.30 hours]] The Minister of Finance knows that he also has one Deputy Minister of the Czech Pirate Party who has worked here since 2018, here in the Chamber of Deputies, within the framework of, of course, services for the Czech Pirate Party, yes, he has a law school, that is true, but the question is whether legal education, maybe you need it, but I am convinced that you have the people for it, for those senior directors of the sections. And when I really made that comparison, the only one who kept that number is leaving Jana Černochová, who, although she has political representatives, has reduced the number of senior directors, so she has practically the same number that she had before the service law came into force and effective. Madam Secretary, you're the only one, nobody else. All the other ministers have it increased by at least two, three seats. At least my detailed analysis came out, which I did according to individual resorts. I will not express how the structure of these pages is different in each of these departments, which I think is probably not quite important, but again I say that the Czech Pirate Party is, in my opinion, almost represented at each resort in the position of political deputy. When we look at how many advisors there are, how many government agents, then when we look at the foreign travels of some ministers, such as the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, who had a business trip to Africa, the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš to Japan and others - I really believe that when people see this, they must say: well, this is possible at all. They perceive that there was covid, that there are other things and that there is a need to consolidate public finances. I fully agree with that. But again, I've performed here many times to put a point in the freeze of politicians' salaries. That also means ministers. The fact that we have so many vice-premieres and it costs tens of thousands of crowns more, I say again, I'll know again that it's a drop in the sea. That's true, but I'll do it again - small money makes big money. I think these people are very aware that the consolidation tax package is here, but it doesn't touch the government, it doesn't touch the five-calice, because they want everything the same, but only to affect citizens. And I think that they feel very right and it's very negative. And also from our side, from the opposition. I would expect the first item in this tax package to remain the birth numbers in the ID. There are going to be costs of 54 billion, I know it will not be in the public sector, but above all in the private sector, but I would expect it to be the first item that we would all agree to - 56 billion. Even if it cost a state budget of 15 to 20 billion, it is a huge number, we might not have to deal with a student discount in this tax package. Yes? But that's not what I found in this tax package. That is why we have put forward a bill to preserve it. Now we're hearing that Mr. Bartoš wants to find another way again. I myself am curious to see what happens here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know if the Minister of Finance is going to say, if there's any way to include it, if we have so many laws, then maybe that was the way. I must say that to give five days to the commentary procedure of such an extensive document, I consider this to be a time when, of course, many subjects, which are a point of reference, have clearly said that it is very difficult to study such material. Nevertheless, the comments were sent and 220 comments were not settled. Nevertheless, the government approved this material. I remember when I was still a deputy at the Ministry of the Interior when I didn't settle one, two comments, so I still had to try to deal with them so that the minister would go to the government and say that the comment was possibly a recommendation, or it was settled, and not for the minister to come to the government and have fundamental unfinished comments. Well, we could call the tax package a little bit on the way, but the only question is, I guess this package will come to a successful end. Because we canceled or resp. The current government canceled 300 post offices, so today a lot of the packages and the letters won't run out on those recipients. Yesterday I was approached here by my colleague Věra Adámková, you know that she is a doctor, that they send a lot of documentation in the mail, and what's not happening - the shipments are returning to them and it says "mail canceled." Is it even possible for this to happen? But it's very sad, Mr. Mayor. For example, these people are waiting for the mail, and yet there is no way that mail in the city of Aš, for example, where you canceled all the mail delivery companies and delivered cars to find mail in the garbage can. This is what the delivery of the Czech Post looks like today, because the delivery lady is being released and delivered by people who know the places, they don't know where the mailboxes are. I think it's very wrong. So I'd like to hear from the Minister of Finance what the savings are going to be, we're going to see some of that about grant programs, but I'd like to hear that there's going to be savings on the side of the government. The fact that you're putting in there that there's going to be some kind of policy wage ceiling, I consider it entirely that you're coming and taking away from seniors their extraordinary and proper valorisation, but if it's going to be a politician salary ceiling, it's not going to be until 1 January 2024. So seniors from January 2023, government from January 1st 2024. Because we're more than that, so it doesn't touch us, it doesn't touch us until next year. And the question is, to what extent and how it will be set. Because, as we are learning at the moment, this consolidated tax package will still have many amendments. We hear that there has been a negotiation with the trade unions, which are on strike alert, where it has therefore been agreed that a comprehensive amendment can be made. Then the Prime Minister will say that according to him, nothing will change there, so I am completely lost in it, as it will be. But I'm sure we'll find out at second reading. I have to say, and you know that I have been in the position of mayor, the captain, so I am particularly concerned about the chapter that concerns cities and municipalities. We were talking about real estate tax here yesterday, and I certainly thank you for the Minister of Finance's reaction. [[11.40 hours]] Again, I would like to say that the headlines that appeared a few days ago in the media that property tax will remain a whole community, so there should still be a subtitle: But, citizens, you will all pay 100 percent extra! This means that the increase in property tax by 100 percent will not change, only it will change if necessary, and František Lukl and President Olšanský from the STAN movement came up with this, which is the Chair of the Association of Local Authorities, in my opinion they want to find a way out of this because they know that it is very bad for cities, so they say leave the whole property tax to cities and municipalities. [[correct: Olšáková]] But no one's saying that if this step happens, all people are going to say that property tax has increased the municipalities, the municipalities. And that it will remain for cities and municipalities, but there will be a reduction in the coefficient within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes. What tax, whether it's a depéháček or a corporation tax or a natural person, you don't know that yet. These meetings will be held. And here I have to say quite rightly that the proposal was made by the Association of Local Authorities, the Union of Cities and Municipalities. And the Minister of Finance says from his position, it's your proposal, and I'm willing to grant it if necessary. Yesterday I asked clearly because the property tax is given, where we know that the income, if it goes up, will be about 10 billion, but you never know what the development will be, you can assume it, but you don't know what it's going to be like in a year or two. And if you take that coefficient within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, then also cities, municipalities can pay very, very much for it in the future. So, personally, as a former municipal politician, I wouldn't have accepted that. I have information that, of course, the Mayors are already sitting on it today. And I'm curious to know what their position will be, because I think it can be very disadvantageous. But I say again, we do not agree at all with the increase in property tax as such. 70 percent of people in the Czech Republic own their housing, and because they own it, they will now practically receive double the tax they have paid so far. You can see from these surveys that people are taking this the most negative and they are very upset that this 100% increase in property tax is going to happen. The problem is that by not knowing how the mayor's and mayor's agreement on this matter will take place, it is clear that we are absolutely against this increase and we will certainly try to make a proposal, if necessary, to avoid such an increase in property tax. If this increase were to happen, it would have to be gradual, not by 100 percent now. But I think it's gonna be on the mayor's and mayor's deal now, because it's gonna be practically that the 10 billion that the finance minister leaves in the real estate tax to cities and municipalities, so he's gonna take on the other side, and that's going to be the budget tax determination. So let's see what happens with the real estate tax, what the development will be. But the conclusion is: citizens of the Czech Republic, most likely from 1 January 2024 will increase your property tax by 100 percent. Cities and municipalities can even increase it to five times that, so it could be a lot more than that, but I don't expect any of the authorities to do it. On the contrary, if someone today has a local coefficient higher, they will, in my opinion, reduce it to the exact same amount or, if necessary, just the higher one. Now allow me to pay the gambling tax. So there was, as I would call it, a huge resentment on the part of the cities and municipalities, that the proposal that was so was not on the instruments that are in the various cities and municipalities that they would receive funding, but it should be on the size of the cities and municipalities. There, according to the information I have, there has been a settlement of comments, and I think it will be right and fair that they will again receive the funds of the city and the municipalities depending on how many instruments they have in their territory. I think, and I have an example here, for example, of the city of Aš also from our region, which, by the fact that the Minister of Finance will take online bets, they will take comprehensively, we also disagree with this, we think that the funds should also get cities and municipalities, and only then will be paid for the instruments, so I think we will definitely fight to continue the redistribution of the online gambling tax between cities and municipalities. The corporation tax, which is to increase by 2 %, that increase there is, but again it is not to go to cities and municipalities, it is to go to the state. There is certainly the question of what agreement will be in the context of the very mentioned property tax and negotiations with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with the Association of Local Authorities. But what bothers me is the contribution to the administration's performance. You know very well that the state still carries more and more responsibilities to cities, municipalities and regions. The fact that a few years ago he took a contribution to the administration's performance and now we've tried to raise him by 5% each year, so he'll stop by next year. I would like to say that according to the calculation of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, cities and municipalities pay 10 billion crowns of their budgets as part of the contribution to the administration's performance. Despite paying back, the state has decided to take the 5% in the next year's consolidation tax package. But there will be other responsibilities, such as, and I will give an example of the registration of Ukrainian vehicles, which must now do all the oerpéčky to start the system from 1 January. So another duty that has been transferred to cities. But the state orders these activities, puts them into law, but unfortunately they don't pay for these actions to cities, municipalities and regions. And I really consider it unbelievable, unfair to the municipalities. And the fact that it has been agreed, and I am absolutely surprised that the Union of Towns and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities does not shout even more, because the debt is there, and that is why it agreed that each year it will increase by a few percent so that they do not pay more and more. But, as you can see, it was not heard in any way within the framework of the commentary procedure. Tax exemptions. The Minister of Finance said here yesterday that as the tax exemption is to be abolished, which is to cancel the discount on the husband, the wife, so that there will be a change, that the tax relief will remain there within three years. Well, I'd like to address him as a little son's mom, that I think the line could be a little bit higher. I think we could definitely talk about this in some way, because really a lot of moms have problems in terms of time aligning work and family life. Minister, believe me, it's not really easy. [[11.50 hours]] It bothers me that the tax exemptions affect the very social area in particular, which means you cancel the student tax discount by canceling the discount on your husband and wife. And then there's this paradox. We have a tax exemption for donations to political parties. So guess if this tax exemption is still there? Well, she stayed. So if someone gives a gift to a political party, they can deduct it from their tax returns. Well, isn't that a little paradoxical? So I'm going to cancel the discount on my husband, my wife, my student discount, but I'm going to leave the tax exemption on the donation to the political party? I have to say, I guess when it was getting ready... So if anyone answers that question, why didn't this tax exemption go away and why it wasn't there? Maybe the Minister of Finance will answer that. A lot of people have been here before about the elevated rates where there's a price increase. I will not remind you that today there were three rates, the tax package proposes only two rates. Again, I would mention the increased rate - the collection, transport and landfill of municipal waste. This is exactly why we approved here, and now the Senate is going to deal with it, the increase in order to increase the limit that cities and municipalities could charge. So it is clear that if it goes to this higher rate of 21 percent, then there will be a great price increase and cities and municipalities, if they do not have the money in their budgets, so that they are forced to increase the charge for the collection of municipal waste to citizens in their cities and municipalities. At the same time I must be worried about increased VAT on food and accommodation services. Of course, for the medication, for the aqueous gutter and so on, but the catering and accommodation services. The Minister of Finance knows that I am from the Karlovy Vary Region, for which tourism and spa are key, and of course the increased VAT... I think that he certainly knows that our region is economically in it, I would say, as one of the worst regions, even one of the colleagues from the TOP 09 on the Committee on Budgets has made a proposal that there might be a merger of the regions, and he said that the best thing would be to cancel the Karlovy Vary Region, because he has a lot of people in self-government and spends money on it. Well, I'm sorry that my colleague has forgotten that the TOP 09 is still there in the coalition. They created twelve coalitions there, many political traders, many relaxed committee chairmen and so on. So I guess that's why there's a motion to cancel the county instead of the government coming to see the county instead of the government solving the problems of the disabled Karlovy Vary region. And now for the government on Wednesday again, the Gigafactory. It's already been approved, it'll be in smaller territory. And I liked how it was written in the explanatory note that a number of funds would go to the Plzeň Region. I love Plzeň Region very much, but there will be a lot of funding for infrastructure and all things. And wouldn't that need more Karlovy Vary and Ústecký or Moravian-Silesian County? Did anyone ever consider that when they presented this consolidation tax package, that the real increase in VAT on food and accommodation services will affect all regions but the most structurally affected Karlovy Vary Region? Doesn't it know that we have spa towns and that 40 percent of people are currently employed in the Karlovy Vary Region in tourism? And the accommodation and catering services are key? I don't know. Again, I must say that the government has already been in many regions, the individual ministers may have been in our region, but I would appreciate it if the entire government had finally come to see the region. But the whole government doesn't have to go there because when I looked at the comments of individual regions, because the regions are an approved point of reference, I have to say that perhaps the Governor of the Central Bohemia Region took great care of these comments and fought for cities, municipalities, for many things, and she gave these comments. Karlovy Vary Region - one legislative technical comment. He practically said that everything in the consolidation tax package was fine. It's a very sad story, I don't know if it's to keep the governor's chain, I don't know why it is, but it's very sad because we asked the council if the county would comment - it was said that it would be analysed, that it would be studied very closely. And then there's this legislative technical reminder. Even at the last council, we learned that it's practically not over yet, that it's not over yet, there's a councilman who said, so I get it, it's always going over the head of the county, and that's, of course, the governor. Closed, bottom line. I'd like to say that consolidate public finances, yes. I'm sure the Minister will say - but you didn't tell me the recipe here. You didn't tell me how to consolidate? - I must say, of course, and you know, Minister of Finance, that the finance ex-minister was Alena Schillerová, who prepared consolidation, prepared it for seven years. And so, as we have information, what was prepared ended up in the trash. So I think the ANO movement is clearly saying - everyone has to pay taxes, but everyone has to pay them fairly. Let them all pay small taxes, but let them all pay fairly. What did you do first? Did you cancel the EET? I think that the fight against tax evasion and fraud - and now the economist, who made it clear that it is still 300 to 500 billion in tax evasion, took place this week. At the same time, Klára Dostálová is clearly saying here that we do not use the potential of European money. And I think that the current government should certainly carry out the taxation of large global companies that, although they are doing business with us, do not pay taxes. The information I have, the previous government has pre-ordered it, and it is enough - at least that's what I have - to bring the information to European level. I think we have record profits from energy companies here. That, of course, is also the way. And about all this stuff to get rid of the useless ministries and the non-portfee-free ministers... I was still looking at those pages yesterday, and I was shocked that, as we have the Minister for European Affairs and all this agenda and all the directors are under the Prime Minister, so virtually in my opinion, there is a huge duplication. Yes, of course, the Minister for European Affairs has his seat at the Office of the Government, but let's face it, the European Presidency is over and I say again that I really consider this to be incredible. And I think it's incredible, because when I look at it, this minister has three other Deputys. Yes? Just so we know. So I think what we're saying is consolidate yes, you come up with 1.5 percent of GDP, we call half a percent of GDP. [[12.00 hours]] And we will certainly try to put some things forward and all this nonsense, for example, so that there is no tax exemption for donations to political parties and so on, so we will try to level some up in the commentary procedure. But again, what's being presented here is just a tax package on the spending page, there's nothing here, and we'll know it practically when we're discussing the budget for 2024. But if you all look at it and I would recommend that you all go through all the individual ministries' pages, you looked at the different organizational structures, and you really convinced yourself about how much of the increase of individual people in individual ministries has taken place - and I said here yesterday that it is absolutely awful that when this consolidation tax package was approved, there was also an increase in the number of administrative posts to - now from 1. 7. We already have 75 887 and since 1 January almost 360 seats have increased. So we're going to see how it's going to evolve, if these birth numbers appear in this document, and above all, things should be necessary, and above all, there should be things that affect this government. There's no way I could find those in this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u25	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm recording two factual points. Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will be the first to speak, then Mr David Kasal. Please, Minister, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u26	I will not describe the state in which we took over the implementation of the second pillar of the OECD Agreement on taxation of multinational companies, because we had to negotiate this within the Presidency. We succeeded, the Francouz failed, and it was the French Minister of Finance's priority. And I have to tell you that it wasn't easy to break Viktor Orbán, because four and a half months ago, the agreement on which the other 26 countries agreed was blocked by Hungary, but finally, at the last ECOFIN and at the last European Council that was in December, that was presented by Petr Fiala, we managed to break it, so we approved it at European level. It was acknowledged very well because we made such a package, we know it from the House, we connected a few things, like our recovery package, and then we convinced Maďar. We're gonna implement it, I signed the government material yesterday, it's not easy at all. Finally, after agreement and based on what the opposition has been saying for a long time, I suggested that it be according to § 90, that it be at first reading, because it is absolutely pure implementation. It's ready, which means the moment it passes through the government, sometime in the fall, we could approve it at first reading. It's going to be a gradual start, and it's going to be a lower unit of billions. But the good news is that this week an agreement has been concluded within the OECD on pillar one, which is - in quotation marks - something that would replace the digital tax. This, however, has the character of an international treaty, so it should be easier to adopt, there will be no need for a directive of the European Union to do so and then implementation. This concerns minimum effective corporate taxation of 15 percent. And as I say, if we agree, I will be very happy that it will pass in the 90s, so that from 1 January 2024, which is the first possible date of implementation within Europe, this is true in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u27	Time's up, thank you. Mr Kasal will now speak with a factual remark, and I wish you a nice noon, and we have taken turns in the management of the meeting. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very short, and I'll respond to the birth numbers. This is where the amount of 54 billion fell, but I think the amount is significantly higher because we're having fun... I don't know about this analysis, which would only count on health care, because all other authorities will be searched according to their birth number, but in health care there are all software for their birth numbers, all of it, each report contains the birth number and the archiving of hospitalization stays is 50 years old. All of this would have to be re-arched. So multiply it, and it's definitely not 54 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u29	That was the last point in fact, we are going back to the debate. Mr Kubík will appear, Mr Černý will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also briefly comment on the consolidation law in question on public budgets. We have been discussing the so-called consolidation package for several days. In doing so, we can monitor the opinions of various experts and commentators in the media. Many praise the government for trying to do something. Yet, we can expect something to happen to the huge deficits of budgets and thus another incredible debt to our country. Because the government doesn't deal with the essentials, and that's the cost of the state budget - they keep growing happily. About two months have passed since the package was introduced, and the non-changing package has changed differently over that period, and we can expect further changes after the tripartite proposals. The government expects tax increases and cancellations of various exceptions to improve the state budget balance by 147 billion between 2024 and 2025. But will it really be? I'm afraid it won't be. This is only an estimate and projection in a situation that we would not do anything at all. But it's gonna happen. We'll valorize pensions, add money to defense and to education. In doing so, how exactly is the government able to estimate we convince ourselves at a windfall tax. If we take all of this into account, it is clear to all that even in the coming years we can expect deficits of 200 billion. But well, such a package could at least have an anti-inflationary effect. After all, we live in a time of record inflation, which cuts a small part of the family budgets every day, and thus the pace of inflation should be one of the priorities of all of us. However, the measures that we are discussing will bring about a higher price. There will be an increase in VAT and thus prices for water and sewerage, medicines, services and others. But yes, it may partly have an inflationary effect because you're going to rob people of some of the savings and they won't have enough resources to meet all their needs. But at the same time, we are undermining the domestic demand that has dragged us forward in recent years. Finally, ODS and Petr Fiala have always said that they advocate low taxes so that people make their own decisions about their money. However, this is in direct contrast to what has been presented to us here and what we are discussing here. This measure will thus lead to a slowdown in the Czech economy and, as a result, will damage it more than it will help. Let me sum it up. Unfortunately, the package of measures, which is mainly about raising taxes, resigning from the investigation, does not solve the problems of the Czech Republic at all or solve them inadequately. That'll condemn us to doing nothing again and staying on the ground. The government had to do something, the pressure of the opposition, the experts, and the giant deficits of these years forced her to do something. Nevertheless, I think that she resigned to solving problems and was content only with raising taxes with uncertain results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u31	The next will be Mr Černý, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, dear colleagues, I don't want to copy anyone here, but there was a glass of honey in this place yesterday. On that occasion, I would like to say that I fully support all the comments on the adjustments and changes in this package. It is very sad that those who take care of the bees that they will do for the state - yes, for the state, because those pollinated products will create values practically free of charge for the state in the billions it has of food, drugstore and other goods - and instead of providing beekeepers with benefits for their state, you are always figuring out how to make their work so difficult and disadvantageous. The new Minister Výborný is said to want to listen to all the groups, and I therefore call on him to have a great opportunity now to turn his words into actions. [[12.10 hours]] And now, let me introduce you to the most important part of life on earth, and that's water. [[He built a 1.5 litre bottle with H2O inscription on the speaker's counter.]] You can't do it without water. As your colleague, Mr. Michálek, said here on the microphone, through you, water is water. It sounded from the counter where I'm standing right now, and I fully agree with him. I also appeal to you, colleagues who do not want table wine, especially foreign wine, to be cheaper than water. And also to those of you honored colleagues who are now thinking, and this information is leaking strongly from the coalition to the public space, about keeping infant water at a reduced rate. Yes, I'll repeat myself. Water is just water. You don't have a problem with taps at a reduced rate, and with that already like this, I have to say, expensive water in the package, whatever it is, do you intend to make more expensive products for the state register than table wine? Yes, there will be another adjustment, which many of you may not yet realize. That's gonna be the backup plastic bottles. I don't want to discuss the subject, I'd like to join it afterwards, but it's a completely different subject from another area, but I would like to note that the plastic bottle will go up by three to five crowns. Not everyone's gonna return the wrappers. But the most important importance of water, especially its great benefit to the human organism, is its income. Seniors already have a drinking regimen that's worse than they should be. This price policy, even with this large inflation, is still, as far as it is, a bearable measure. What about the kids and the kids? Will you risk ending the drinking regime with this group? You know the school milk didn't catch much. And here I have a fundamental question for the most eligible. What do you say, Minister, war? Have you explained to your colleagues what the loss of fluids in the human body will mean? How much will it cause for health complications and, more importantly, how much will it cost for us? This morning, a TV was reporting to a doctor who has been working on this issue for a lifetime. He explained what it is at present in those heats to not drink or drink enough. Surely, the money it will cost will be far more than you can collect to move soft drinks to the basic rate. Yes, I just said the word drinks. I mean, what was normal, food and soft drinks at a reduced rate, is newly distributed in your recovery package of your government completely senselessly. I'll use that favorite saying. You're gonna make a cat dog again. So once again, I'm going to try to explain, water is just water. Yes, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, you have the full support of the SPD. Baby, mineral, table, drinking, springy. It doesn't matter what it says. Cold, warm, overcooked, sparkling, flavored, unflavored, with lemon, with mint, with cucumber, with sugar, with sweets, cold tea, hot tea, coffee, melt, further coffee with milk, more milk, less milk. I don't want to talk about it here. What kind of expert advised you to do this, my dear government? You're creating a pretty interesting paradox here. All the ingredients, whether they lightly flavor the water, or even the added strong concentrate, are part of which the water is treated, will be perfectly logical as food at a reduced rate. And you from the water that's still the water, as I've said several times, of course, if I take the tap that you keep at a reduced rate, using those food ingredients, that water flavoring, such as fruit, vegetables, sugar, sweeteners, herbs, spices, tea, coffee, melt, at a reduced rate, you create a drink at a basic rate. Therefore, the above reasons for keeping soft drinks at a reduced rate should be a matter of course for us and I believe that common sense will prevail. I heard somewhere that the main reason for the rate change is sweetened drinks. Yes, we agree with you on the regulation of sugar in order to protect the health of citizens. Therefore, I have a proposal - come with experts to set maximum limits for the authorised ingredients of these sugars and other ingredients, and I believe that each manufacturer can then easily adjust the values in his products and to convert those products that exceed these values to the basic rate. On behalf of the SPD, I can guarantee you that we will be happy to support such an adjustment to reduce citizens' health risks. And in conclusion, I beg you to conclude on this simple water talk of mine today, which means life without distinction for the wealthy and the poor, even if it turns out much more for the poor, please don't let the studies and graphs you're always using at the counter. Did I hear you weren't? Great! I applaud you. You just saved $10 million in the budget! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u33	Mr Kolovratník will now appear, Mr Jáč will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u34	Hello, good Friday afternoon already, colleagues. I am also glad that I have now come to the floor in order here on the subject that we are discussing all week, and I will not be different from some of the previous speakers, from some of my colleagues, who have also modified their performance a little on the basis of what has been said by the previous speakers, whether from the opposition or from you from the coalition, when you defended the tax package and when you defended your actions, not only here in the House, but also in the media. I listened carefully to most of those performances live or on the record, or online on the Internet, and at the outset, what I want to say, what interests me, is a public appearance which I see as quite a strong contradiction actually between the two main people, the two main persons involved here, Prime Minister Fiala and Minister Stanjura. Prime Minister Fiala, it was yesterday, during yesterday's microphone he said: we are coming and we have a set of carefully discussed measures, carefully discussed, which he stressed several times, which we invented, which we discussed and prepared among ourselves. But then I see in the media the statement by Minister Stanjura, who says, we will change them, we will discuss it until August, we will modify it, we will approach the Members, not only the opposition but also the Coalition. And, dear friends, to me, this is oxymoron. So either you have a discussion - carefully, as the Prime Minister said, you have a discussion and you are clear, or you are not, and you are going to change it, and you are going to continue to discuss it. That is simply a contradiction, and it simply shows me what your five-calice has in your DNA, that on the outside you show some unity, in the words of the Prime Minister, carefully discussed measures, a set of carefully discussed measures, but the reality is different. The reality is completely different. And when I add to the perception of your performances what we've been hearing since the end of May, since June in the media, and what has been said here a hundred times in the House, zero VAT on books, other VAT on magazines, newspapers, quiet wines and so on, and so on, there's no point in stalling us all and repeating it to me, so, friends, it reminds me of two fairytale characters. I've liked them since I was a kid, and your lovely five-wheel drive reminded me of my childhood. Then I'll remind you of them. I'll show them here. The two characters one day took flour, milk and egg and mixed it together and said cake must be sweet. That's what the cat said and put sugar in it. Also salty, said the dog and put salt in it. [[12.20 hours]] "And now we're gonna put butter and a jar," said the pussycat. "Not here, I don't like it" said the dog. "We're gonna put in a place of raw cheese jar," I'm gonna love that. So they put in a couple of sloes. A dog with a cat that looks like your five-caliber. Seems a little greasy to me, said the pussycat. We have to put a couple of fat skins and nuts in there so we don't forget, he said doggy and he poured a cone of nuts in there. Uh, nuts are good, he was praised by a coalic pussy, but a cucumber should come along and put a cucumber in. And the bones, the dog called. We have to put some bones in there. So they put a lot of bones in the cake. And yet a mouse, a mouse, I really liked it, she remembered a pussy and put four mice in the cake. Now, a few sausages, a lot of pepperoni, that's something for me, said the dog and put in a wreath of sausages. And now the main thing, said the kitty, like in your coalition, is we have to put whipped cream in there and put a whole pot of cream in it. And a little onion, he said doggy, and they put onion. And chocolate, said the pussycat and added chocolate. And the sauce, it attacked the dog. And so they put everything in their cake, which exactly resembles this famous five-calice package. They put garlic and pepper in it, they mixed lard, candy, crackers and cinnamon, grits and curd, gingerbread and vinegar, cocoa and cabbage, friends, and they put one head out of the goose and raisin, and they mixed it all. But did they have a coalition match, like you? They didn't put bread in it. Because the dogs and cats don't like to eat too much. You're gonna make the bread more expensive, too, so it's logical that you don't put it in there either. Well, as it was, we all know. They mixed it all up, mixed it up, made a cake as big as a cart, baked it and put it behind the window. Well, here's where the nice story ends and turns into something bad, folks. In the fairy tale, the cake ate a big, ugly dog who was sick of it. And I'm afraid we'll all be condemned to eat this despicable, disgusting cake of yours, all citizens of the Czech Republic. And to all of us, including your constituents, he's gonna be sick. Here's the funny analogy I'm gonna put on three topics, three arguments that I'm gonna be serious about right now. The first two are from transport, and the third one is from the economy. They say, shoemaker, stick to your hooves. First example of traffic. The price of the highway stamp is going up. I'll remind you that this is one of the points of your famous tax package where you promise to save more than taking money from people. So this is where you take people's money. Today's prize is CZK 1,500, a 10-day stamp of some 310, monthly 440. You want to raise it to CZK 2,300, CZK 2,300, more than half, and I'm going to mention in this argument what Minister Kupka says he has to make this much more expensive, because he has a European directive and it can't be less than 12 per cent of the total monthly amount than 19 per cent, and that there would be a tide of those who buy the annual ones, I just don't believe this argument. And if the ten days according to your calculation will cost 270 crowns, two hundred a day, I was counting modelly - and I want to come up with some reasonable compromise increase on the stamp so that I can be correct, you don't say, they're just criticizing, they're making us doggies and pussycats, they're keeping us from a train that's bound to go to Moravia for a while. That is how we want to make proposals that are compromises, which also come to you. So I was modeling for you to increase the price of the road sign by a reasonable compromise to, for example, CZK 2,000, as I suggested here in the spring of 2019. A footnote from you, from the opposition at the time, for just 2,000 I have reaped terrible criticism at that time. It didn't go through the House. So in this calculation for your proposal, a one-day stamp will cost CZK 200, which, according to my calculation, would be CZK 180. For that ten-day 270, versus 240, the difference is just 30 crowns and so on and so forth. And that the argument needs to be upped by a highway sign like this jumping to 2,300, because those short-term time coupons would be cheap, don't be mad at me, they just won't stand up, they can't stand it. And I'm going to add a raise to that, and we're going to consider in our club, we're going to do it on August, and I'm going to report it on a microphone, that I want to prepare an amendment counterproposal against this high-speed highway stamp. And I want to add another argument here. Compare our motorway network to the motorway network in Austria. We have a little over 1,300 kilometers of highways, Rakušák plus, minus more than a thousand more, but the price of annual stamps is comparable. It's about CZK 2,300. And it's an illustration calculation. When you compare it with some price or conversion to one kilometer of highway, and it is charged Rakušák and some tunnels and mountain sections, it goes to about 1.10 crowns, with us to 2.10 crowns. You, as a state, will ask the Czech drivers almost double what they pay annually for those motorways converted into kilometers before the Rakušák. And that reminds me of what - I guess it doesn't surprise me - you often forget that since my 2019 proposal, the motorway network has grown quite a bit. Between 2012 and 2022, a total of 226.5 kilometers of highways on a green meadow increased. It was modernised by D1. And now those plans that are underway this year, it's about 15,5 kilometers, and next year, those buildings that were prepared by the government of the YES movement are underway, so it should be opened if nothing goes wrong, more than 118 kilometers of highways and ones. So our network is growing, but it's still true, just jumping from 1,500 to 2,300 is too much, in the background that you haven't introduced the savings to us yet, and you're definitely not doing as much and as much as you should. So let me repeat, at this one point, we're going to be consulting, and we're definitely going to be against that increase to 2,300, and I can reveal here, I'm working internally with the idea that it should be a reasonable compromise increase, maybe up to the 2,000 crowns. I'm adding the last, maybe technical, but important detail. It's a ceiling in Law 13 that the government can, but it doesn't have to use either. It could be a hundred, two hundred, three hundred and so on. The second serious argument in transport. The price of diesel and the total price of public transport. Public, environmental transport. I remind you that here in the House a few days ago you pushed through, well, to be correct, not expensive, if it's expensive, but to return that excise tax rate by 1.50, even though it was promised, and it was planned until the end of this year. Once again, we have proposed - you have not returned this to us - a compromise solution, an alternative approach to a price increase of only 50 cents, and that would have brought something to the state budget, and unfortunately, you have not put anything on us. And where does that cause trouble? In two places. Firstly, it will be for, say, private carriers of Czech companies. And here's a good one. If such expensive parties like KDU-ČSL, pirát like ok for them, but I am really surprised and I see colleagues from ODS who are always fighting for supporting Czech companies, Czech industry, Czech business and you, dear adolescenceians, dear colleagues from ODS, as well as from the Economic Committee and from the Sub-Committee for Transport, I am shocked and surprised that you will let what happens. The better results of Czech carriers will be over now. Shortening the period of validity of the tariff reduction. Now it's a period of lower demand for truck transport. It's about 10 to 20 percent by commodity. This means new trends for carriers, they will not succeed in them. It shortens contracts by the end of the year, endangers them. And, of course, every economist knows that the lower rate will support the higher performance of companies, so the effects are reflected in further contributions to the state. Road tax, taxes on driver's wages, tolls, input VAT, income tax and so on. You're just gonna resign. You can fire me, return that to the state - and I think Zbyněk Stanjura said in some interpellation that it is not for the state to support a particular segment of companies. But if I stay with the traffic and the transport costs, I've calculated one, two, three, four, five steps, five points that you're gradually increasing the public transport, i.e. the transport of buses, regional transport, public transport and train. And this is a huge problem, and I don't think any of you are getting the cascade that you're causing, how hard it's gonna be for the citizens. Okay, first step. Last spring, your political decision, to reduce the discounts for pensioners and students by 25 per cent, really to increase their public transport fare, where people return after the covide, double. [[12.30 hours]] Then came December 2022, last year, as is every December, the carriers on average increased in public transport. It was 12 percent. Now we're talking about 1.50 kroner on oil. For interest, the Czech Railways have some 46 million litres of diesel per year, the same number happens to be the same for all transport companies throughout the Czech Republic. When I got it from the association, it's also about 44 to 45 million gallons of diesel. So I made a simple calculation, so the price of CZK 1.50 will not be six months, according to the assumption of September, October, November, December, in four months. So you take this step both from the Czech Railways - and I am not talking about private carriers - both from the national carrier České dráhy and from all transport companies belonging to cities and municipalities, so you, my friends, will pull twice CZK 24 million out of it. Oh, dear! You just approved some $50 million for Michellin. Now we know where you can take private restaurants for these subsidies - in České dráhy and in transport companies. Seriously, is that something you, ODS colleagues, aren't ashamed of? Well, I'll continue the cascade. From 1 January, once again we are in this package and I am talking about increasing public transport by another 2%, moving from the reduction of 10 to 12% tax. And, of course, the carriers are going to put this in their calculations, so when they change the timetable, which is always in December, it's the ninth, in the first half of December, so I'm sure they're going to project the other costs like diesel right now. Bottom line, I don't want to say that dramatically, but you're making public transport more expensive and difficult for citizens and passengers. And in the public articles in the media of the Czech Railways - I understand that management is loyal, it is a company that belongs to the state - so diplomatically so far they are not commenting anything, but quite clearly the most private carriers speak. Regiojet, Radim Jančura: The rest of Europe is going in the exact opposite direction, looking for ways to make the fare cheaper. I will remind Klimaticket in Austria, I will remind you of a very cheap German ticket for 50 euros per month. Here today, and I quote Radim Jančura, today the state, regions and cities will spend over CZK 40 billion on subsidized transport per year at a fare of around 10 billion. Simple business considerations - if people don't want to go on those trains and buses, they'll walk less, so the scissors will open up and the end effect will be that you increase the cost of the state. Another private carrier Leoexpres speaks similarly. At the moment when passengers return to public transport after the covid pandemic, it should be supported as ecological alternatives to transport support. [[Quote]] Every auction drives the citizens into their cars. Now, the promised last third argument from the economy. It's also a topic that we've talked about here, which I've opened and discussed with both Prime Minister Fiala and Minister Stanjura, and it's the theme of the famous purchases across the border. I quote media: Sad, but we don't give a damn about the Czech Republic, people from shopping abroad. At home prices are overburned and inadequate quality, beyond the borders it is worth buying almost everything, they match Čech who regularly go shopping to Poland and Germany. I want to be fair, and I know that this has been heard by my previous speakers several times today and I'm not going to read it here again. Shopping where the family on one purchase saves some half of 2500, discount on 1200, 1300 crowns. Examples - spaghetti for 20, a package of spaghetti for 40 crowns and so on and so on. The title "dogs taste better from Germany" when I was there with the dog and the kitty. Again resigning you, the famous glued five-wheeler. The fact that you can do something about it, that you can motivate our citizens to spend the money here at home, here in the Czech Republic, you will completely resign, and the only thing you've decided to do is to spend more than 50 million crowns in luxurious expensive restaurants. And the conclusion of my speech and the conclusion of the article: We will calculate it for the politicians, citizen Anička, but also other addresses for prices criticise the current government. We'll count it for them in the election, says the woman from Hrádek. Naďa is similarly angry in front of the store, not in Poland, but in Zittau, Germany, which is bothered by the fact that she has to go abroad for quality. I quote Naďa: I hate it when the government tells me to go shopping elsewhere. That kind of attitude, that's what's bothering me. So I'm thinking, nice cats and nice dogs from the government coalition, that it would really be the best austerity measure if you resigned and stopped harming this country. I remind you that we in the YES movement have clear solutions, we have concrete proposals on how to get out of this crisis. Alena Schillerová talked about them many times, we put them on the nets. Most of my colleagues who have performed here have been reminded and I will repeat them at random - we want to go the way of slower debt reduction, around 50 billion a year, consistently collecting existing taxes, professionally managing strategic companies of the state, not what happens around ČEZ, which Prime Minister Fiala spoke about last June. You should try it, but you won't try it. And you know, in conclusion, I'm like, no. If I'm watching it, don't do it, don't listen to us, folks. When I'm watching tens of thousands of angry reactions, I'm thinking, "Go on, doggies and kitties, carry on with the five-wheel drive, 'cause your bad cake isn't really gonna eat any dog, we're all gonna have to eat it, and it's gonna be sick to all of us and your voters. I can assure you that in the next House, such dogs and pussycats, such chefs like you, will no longer be allowed into voters. We look forward to it for the YES movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u35	Mr Jáč will continue. I will make one apology, Mr Vondrák Ivo apologizes at 13:00 for family reasons. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u36	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, allow me to introduce you all or to try to turn you - namely, the coalition which is the author of the problem I want to talk about is, say, a reduction in the tax exemption of various benefits, which regulates, as I well know from my own business, the Income Tax Act in Section 6 (1). 9 under (a) to (d). I think that this measure has affected and probably slightly upset several million users and perhaps even employers themselves, because it is very popular, but not only popular, but also motivational, stabilizing and, say, useful tools to keep their skilled employees in business and protect them from thinking about some fluctuations to competing companies. I will not specify individual transactions under points (a) to (d). I was just a little interested in the fact that, again, these restrictions in this package affect books that we already know are now under a different VAT burden. Here again, this could happen - and it happens, hopefully I know that the changes that have already started in negotiations with tripartite, some employers' unions, public pressure, opposition to mitigating the original flat interference would mean that in those books, an employer who can offer in that point (d) about three possibilities of obtaining that benefit for employees, that is, to provide a voucher in exchange in the store, or by selecting the employee's book directly at the store, or the third possibility of handing out those books at the employer's place, as if they were to offer vitamins and perhaps some other recommended elements. [[The other one?]] [[12.40 hours]] Well, I hope there's still some consideration here. The second area - so as not to delay - is the IT area. This is something more serious, because in the IT sector and the IT centers provided services work - sometimes stated - around 150, 160, 000 employees highly erudized, highly, I would say, specialized and companies can thus, by basically chasing themselves into offering benefits, keep these workers in their company. Although we know that such specialists can work so-called remotely today using the known term digital nomadism, so that they can manage and provide services for our country calmly, let's say, from New Zealand, from Cyprus or from the Giant Mountains. This would probably not be good, because these workers could go to neighbouring countries, other countries like Ireland, Austria and some others that have somewhat better conditions. So I would like to consider whether, let's say, there could be a further restriction on the non-cash performance of employers to employees under the name benefit. Because I've already said that it's going to be A, not just three, maybe four, million employees. but because it is actually a chain of relationships between those who provide these services - I will not talk about fitness, sports and other facilities, but also about sales of medical devices, medicines, optical techniques or the like - so I think it needs to be considered. If I close this gloating, don't do it. Since it can actually help someone rather in, say, political strife, I wouldn't want to say it like that. My point is to prosper as a country, like, say, one economy that can just compete not with itself, but with foreign competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Štefanová will continue the debate and Mrs Lesenská will prepare herself, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will comment here on the proposals put forward for amendments that the government is preparing in the context of the so-called consolidation package. A package that seems more purely taxable to me than recovery, as the government calls it. There are many parts in these proposals that I do not agree with, which I think are wrong. But by a number of my previous speakers, colleagues, it was actually all said here, and I'm not going to repeat all that stuff. I'm just going to mention one concrete change that hasn't been made so many times. The government is planning to introduce sickness insurance for employees as part of the consolidation of public finances. At present, the sickness insurance is paid for by his employer's employees. But the government wants more income in the state register to be paid by employees in the amount of 0.6% of the net wage. It promises an increase in revenue of up to 12 or less 13 billion in the state budget. But I do not agree with this step. This intended budget patch will have exactly the opposite effect in the final. It is only another tax burden on labour. The introduction of sickness insurance for employees will have a significant social impact and will significantly affect mainly low-income families. There will be a de facto reduction in their real income in the family budget by up to CZK 500 a month. This will then increase the number of people who will need and apply for social benefits and consequently increase the state expenditure. However, sickness insurance will also increase for self-employed persons, except that it is voluntary insurance for self-employed persons, which is not voluntary for employees. Once again, scissors will open in the differences between employees and self-employed persons. I also consider this to be wrong. At the same time, it would make much more sense to me if the employer paid the sickness insurance directly to the health insurance companies, who would pay the sickness insurance and would have this whole thing in gesture and then, as part of their management, would have a much more incentive to focus on preventive care, which would then be positively reflected in the amount of funding, not only in the sick care paid, but also in the treatment itself. Within the framework of public finance adjustments, it is necessary to focus primarily on expenditure, i.e. on government spending, rather than first increasing taxes and taxes on people. In particular, the contributions, which burden all of them as a percentage of the burden, cannot be paid for the discounts and therefore, in particular, the low-income ones. I consider this step to be unhappy, wrong. It will not bring more money into the budget, but its effects will mean precisely the opposite, more cost to the state. That is why I am already in advance of filing an amendment that will disturb this act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u39	Mrs Lesenská will continue, Mr Wenzl will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, I am standing here today because I would like to mention my main criticism of the consolidation package that Prime Minister Petr Fiala's Government, through the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, has presented to us. The package consists of 58 points that change 63 laws and affect very many aspects of our lives. I do not want to be silent about how this government is trying to corner society and our citizens, all under the pretext of stabilizing the state budget and reducing the deficit. For this reason, I would like to make arguments as to why I think this package is not in the right direction for our country. I will therefore recapitulate what the petitioner has presented to us and the government presented at the press conference on 11 May this year. I would like to stress the name under which the press conference was presented - a press conference on the presentation of pension reform and a package of consolidation of public finances. They introduced us and stated that expenditure should fall by CZK 88.3 billion within two years by cutting national subsidies, saving the operation of the state, reducing the amount of salaries in the public sector. Here I would just like to underline or footnote how you want to lure those experts into the public sphere. Other expenditure will also be reduced. CZK 69.2 billion will take place on the revenue side between 2024 and 25. Corporate taxes will be increased, contributions to the CFI will be increased, sickness insurance for employees will be renewed, real estate taxes will be increased, excise taxes will be increased, 22 tax exemptions will be abolished, taxes on personal income will be adjusted, contributions from labour agreements will be made. Other revenue will be increased, but there will be an exemption from income from the sale of securities and value added tax will have two rates. Since we have heard from the government here that the savings that the government will start with itself will be seen in the budget, I will not comment on them in more detail at this point. In fact, we've heard it here many times. However, I will not forgive myself that it was a good habit to present to the House the basic parameters of the budget for the following year at the June House meeting. [[12.50 hours]] We have July, we are discussing the amendment of 63 laws with indefinite results. And why am I stating an indefinite outcome? Yesterday in plenary, we learned that outside the House, outside of our negotiations here in plenary, there are other coalition negotiations going on, which will actually change the material presented to us and that we will ultimately approve something completely different, there will be negotiations with tripartite among other things. I assumed that this had already taken place before the package was discussed here in plenary. I'm sure we won't approve the government package in the SPD. It will be approved by 108 government MPs. I should probably say 109. But the Prime Minister has declared, we will enforce, we will approve the recovery package. So can the Prime Minister explain to us what it is, with what content? Let me comment on the revenue, and we'll start with the most obvious. An increase in corporate tax. How can we assume that our companies will be competitive when we make their business difficult, we increase taxes, we increase energy inputs, we aggravate the investment environment. Will we not discourage potential investors who could help stimulate our economic growth? At the same time, I think this increase will lead to an increase in the prices that we all, citizens of this country, will pay. Another measure that deserves my criticism is the abolition or reduction of certain tax exemptions for natural persons. I mean tax deductions and discounts on kindergarten, on a student, on a non-working husband or wife. These changes will not happen to families, their disposable income will decrease and their standard of living will deteriorate. Minister Jurečka here, when discussing the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, stated that at this point it is not a pension reform, but only a reduction in the rate of growth of pensions and a difficulty in early retirement. They will present pension reform as such to the House of Honor in the autumn of this year. Among other things, this was confirmed by the Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Only the Prime Minister convinced us about something else in his performance. You can't make a deal within the government? Minister Jurečka indicated that he would like to support families with children and even young people in the context of pension reform to start families. Thank you for leaning towards your opinion, which is presented by the SPD over the long term, and that is the support of working families with children. But how does your government's so-called recovery package correspond to this, which reduces the disposable income of families that you want to support so massively. Is it calculated somewhere, how much will possibly increase the number of applicants for non-insurable social benefits? Are you clear about the impact of your measures on the expenditure side of your budget? The government also focuses on the CFI, for which it intends to increase the minimum assessment base for contributions from 25 to 40 percent of the average wage by 2026. What's the signal you're sending to our businessmen? On the one hand, we want our citizens to be entrepreneurial, innovative, but at the same time you punish them for wanting to make a living on their own. Yeah, the corporation needs cheap labor. What were the coalition partners behind the scenes, perhaps in secret, discussing with Minister Stanjura at yesterday's extra-sensei meetings? Or even today's? We learned this from journalists, at the meeting the parties carried a list of two dozen additional proposals for the package. We have also learned from journalists that a large part of it concerns VAT, do they not want the tax on ponds, or do they really want it? Do they want or do they not want a zero tax on wine? Minerals, healing water at a lower rate, or what kind of water? Diapers, baby water, where to with them? Magazines, newspapers, books and so on. Real estate tax to the whole community, or is it really gonna be different? What about the budgetary determination of taxes? What's it gonna be like? So what did we say and criticize openly here at the plenary? I would like to mention part 34 of the consolidation package, where the amended part of Act No. 440/2004 Coll., on the handling of rough diamonds, on their import, export and transit, and on the amendment of certain laws indicating the proposed changes and additions on 1 July 2025, we will read that in Section 2 (d) in paragraph 4 and under point (f), the words "Determined Office, Customs Office of Ruzyně" are supplemented by the words "in Prague." How will this addition of the "in Prague" increase my revenue from the state budget? Why are we dealing with this in a consolidation package, and how many such diamonds and pearls will you smuggle into the next reading of the consolidation package from behind-the-scenes five-calice negotiations? Dear colleagues, this package is not the right way to solve our problems. We need realistic and proactive measures that promote growth, social cohesion and not punishing our citizens, families and businesses. The opposition did not stick to the House's counter during the discussion, nor did it present long speeches that would not concern finance. Yes, many of us have said what we think about the recovery package. The Prime Minister and other ministers did the same, and they made it clear to us that the package would pass. The government has a majority of 108 votes and we will see what agreements and surprises will emerge from behind the scenes. It's open to 63 laws. What's next? Various measures, inflation, high prices, where much of our citizens' savings and reserves have often reduced to zero. The middle class falls more and more into low-income numbers, tradesmen and companies should prepare for next year's and forward-looking years. But they don't know what they're up to yet. When will we at least know the state budget framework for next year? Minister Stanjura boasts that the budget has improved in June, from the record deficit in May to the second worst result in the history of the Czech Republic. And that dropped from 271 billion by 56 billion crowns. Corporate taxes came and more pluses brought flows from European funds. However, in the case of taxation of natural persons and in the case of insurance premiums, the dynamics of selection continue to decline, so the structural problem persists. Well, that's what to brag about. If we count the super dividend that the state has taken - or takes from ČEZ, I would actually add or specify here that thanks to the unparalleledly high energy prices from all of us, and add some savings in the operation of ministries, we will still have a deficit higher at the end of the year than the Ministry of Finance originally assumed and the members of the government coalition approved. When, then, the government will finally stop subsidizing where, depending on which lobby is strong or weak. When do we stop subsidizing unnecessary nonprofits? When, finally, there will be a reduction and simplification of the state agenda that the leaders of the government coalition spoke about before the elections and which is necessary for so much promoted digitalisation. When do you tax funds that go abroad without any taxation? When do Internet giants? And when the government coalition will finally admit that without tax increases, it simply won't work. After all, tax increases have already been made with a recovery package. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u41	Thank you. Mr Wenzl will take the next step, Mr nový will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I think we have heard everything, but I will say a few things, just a few things that weigh on me. And these are real estate prices in the Czech Republic. We're in a housing crisis. I live in Prague, so here I would say that maybe this is one of the worst places where you can get some housing, and it takes a long time to sort it out. What can we do? Well, we're in Prague. In the last decade, real estate prices have grown significantly faster than wages. Mr Stanjura proudly refused to increase our taxes on real estate before the election. It's not luxury to have a place to live. We reject higher real estate taxation. The state must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house. Or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and the family. We won't allow an increase in property tax. Once again, the five-calice lied in the election campaign. Maybe she wasn't lying, maybe she wanted to do it, but she found out she couldn't. The problem will arise primarily in the less economically successful part of the population, which will have to bear an increase in this tax. It's an extremely antisocial move. The idea of raising real estate tax is really dangerous. It would be a punishment for a citizen to get his own place. Because the citizen who buys the land has to pay the tax. Citizen, if he wants to build, he has to build a project, pay a tax. A citizen buys construction material. And there's a tax involved, too. He's gonna hire a company, and he's gonna have to pay the company a tax on the work done. Why is a citizen punishing them for not wanting anything from the state and having to pay taxes? The way in the fairy tale of coalmen, pay for it! At the same time, higher taxation would be reflected in the rental price and only tenants would pay for it. I don't understand why the state should punish someone for getting a place to live. And that's at your expense. That's not the way to go. The representatives of the cities and municipalities themselves reject any changes. Raise the tax, especially if it was an increase in the area, it is not a meaningful solution. Against any tax increase, for example, by you, the economist, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies for the ODS, Mr Skopeček. According to him, ownership should not be punished by the state by other taxes. I agree with that because for eight years I was mayor in Prague 15, and I was one of the 56 mayors who opposed building building in Prague. That's why I can't vote in favour. I am here to defend the interests of the citizens who sent me here. I would like to add further, and I think that we should all know that, in addition to the multiple increases in the real estate tax that the government is preparing for us, the European Union approved in December 2022, and that is an environmental tax. Because, among other things, these taxes also relate to real estate, there is no mention of them in the media or lines. First we get a financial gift from our government, and only when it's done throws economic taxes on our table with a note: it's not our fault, it's the Union's fault. So just for the record: the Union agreed in 2022. And who was in the Bureau of the Union? It's us. And who was the chairman? Prime Minister Petr Fiala. I think we should all think about this. At the very beginning, I approached everyonevážený Dears. And that's for one simple reason, because I respect everyone here. And I believe it should be that way with the others. I don't like people barking at each other, blaming, cursing. On Wednesday, the Vice-President, by your means, Mrs Kovářová, as President, said here that we should know all our colleagues whether they are from the coalition or from the opposition. But how do we do that? I don't know if I should go around all the benches, see people, shake hands with them. I don't know how to do that. 'Cause I'm kind of embarrassed that I'm going to the bathroom, I'm going to pee, it costs us five, we've got our forehead leaning against the tiles, well, and everybody's holding something in their hand, and we're quiet. There's not gonna be a word. It's so embarrassing. And if I knew a fellow opposition officer over there, I'd say hi to him, Karel, how's it going? And he'll say well, I'd like to say it again, or I'd like to compare it to football. We have Slavia, we have Sparta, we have Slovan Liberec, we have Zbrojovka Brno, we have Plzeň, and they are all players, they are rivals who play among themselves. He won't forgive himself. But when they are called to the representation, they play for the Czech Republic. And this is the same here in the Chamber of Deputies. Indeed, there are also multiple-party Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u43	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you so we can hear you right, so I'm gonna ask the other colleagues to calm down because you've lost your sense of humor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u44	But here we represent the Czech Republic, so we should really play for the Czech Republic. Because even the football players who come on that field want to win. And they're training, and they're talking to the coach about how they're gonna play, who's gonna shoot goals. But here, sometimes it looks like they're shooting goals into their own goals. Well, maybe I could take advantage of this situation. And I don't see the Minister of Rakušan here, who I wanted to ask about the post office, but when I'm driving around those objects, I still see post office signs on those objects or on those objects. [[13.10 hours]] So I'm assuming whoever doesn't know that the mail has been canceled is gonna go over there and turn around and swear that the mail is closed. So I don't know the deadline for removing the inscriptions from these buildings. I have one more thing. When I spoke yesterday about the wood tax that the pizzerias were going to be beaten, it was meant to be, the minister explained to me that the tax would be paid either way by the entrepreneur. But this businessman is actually gonna raise the price of the food, the price of the pizza. Anyway, the guy who's going to get the food will pay for it eventually. I mean, the guy who's coming to sit down for a meal, he's had that $200 meal up until now, but after taxes, the food's gonna be more expensive. Because the businessman won't take it, because he's gonna want to get the money back from somebody. I promised it wouldn't be long, so I cut it short. I'd like to wish you all a nice weekend. I'm sure we can make some arrangements, and if anyone wants to meet, I haven't been here for a long time because I've been sick, so I don't know if you guys had any dating parties, I don't know. I'm Milan Wenzl, and if you want, you can come, and if we're in the bathroom, we can say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u45	Not only in the bathrooms, but there may be other premises in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Cheer up, applause.]] Now, please, Mr nový.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u46	Mr President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members. We are discussing the recovery consolidation package from Wednesday afternoon, with dozens of Members speaking. For this reason, it is not appropriate for me to repeat what has already been said several times in many cases. Therefore, in my speech, I will focus only on some aspects of the consolidation of public finances, which I consider important from the point of view of the theoretical economist. I consider the question of whether the Czech economy needs a recovery package to be an essential aspect of our discussion. I heard from the mouth of the opposition that no. There have been arguments about low debt rates, the danger of economic downturn, negative impacts on companies, including their decline in competitiveness, factors stimulating inflation, the subsequent decline in the standard of living of the Czech household, etc. The state's management can be simplisticly compared to the economy of a normal household. How a normal household can afford to live beyond its means, to have more spending than income. There are three ways you can pay your debts. First, by drawing on my savings. But what savings the Czech Republic has created in previous years. Perhaps some of us will recall my speech of the Bible's seven years of abundance and seven years of suffering. Past governments instead of filling the granaries and warehouses in the fat years - the words of the prophet Josef - to save the skinny, harvested harvest for years. What's more, they owe us for the next period. So instead of the accumulated surplus, which would have reached nearly CZK 420 billion with 1% budget savings, we have savings at zero. The second option to pay off your debts is to sell assets. When a family inherits a family home from their parents, their sale will receive the necessary funds. In the case of the Czech economy, however, we have no one to inherit. The state-owned property acquired after 1989 was almost all privatized. I suppose no one in this hall thought to sell 70 percent of the state owned CEZ so that we could extend our budget party by a few years. We have a third option that, for example, a rich, childless aunt is willing to lend us each month to pay off our debts. The above mentioned aunt in the case of the State represents domestic and foreign creditors. If their willingness to lend us ends, our ability to live beyond our means will end. So if I am to answer the question of whether the Czech economy needs or does not need a healthy consolidation package, it is best to look for this answer on the examples of countries that have experienced what is called state bankruptcy. Of course, Greece is the best example for all of them. The collapse of Greek public finances was launched by domestic and foreign creditors who lost confidence in Greece's ability to meet their financial obligations. I know that the Greek economy was in a completely different situation from the Czech economy in terms of debt to gross domestic product. But for most creditors, the current situation is not relevant, but future trends. And in the case of Greece, they have led to the belief that the country has fallen into unmanageable deficits that it is unable to cope with on its own. We all know the bill - the decline in gross domestic product by tens of percent, the enormous growth of unemployment, the impending run on Greek banks, the dramatic decline in the standard of living of Greek households, including the decline in the standard of living of Greek pensioners. The loss of confidence of domestic and foreign creditors in the ability, but also the willingness to consolidate public finances, is precisely the acute danger that lies in the Czech economy, and it is completely indifferent whether or not there are objective reasons for this. A responsible farmer must be aware of this warning and must act accordingly in advance. By presenting a recovery package to the Czech public without being in the situation of the Greek economy, the current government - even at the cost of negative political costs - proves that it is a responsible government that thinks of future generations. The second aspect that interests me in relation to the presented recovery package is the question of what the cost of our debt and the cost of the deficits generated. The most common is the transfer of debts to future generations. But this problem is not an economic problem, but an ethical problem and a moral one. While it is not acceptable for many of us to live at the expense of future generations, I recognise that a significant part of the Czech population has no problem with this. What happened to the budgetaryly responsible citizens of the Czech Republic that today they do not mind having their children and grandchildren paid for their accounts. The answer is simple. It was an irresponsible fiscal policy of the previous government. Let me give you three examples. The first was one valorisation of old-age pensions beyond the law, which, together with the adverse democratic development of the Czech population, contributed to the deepening of the future problems of the pension account and the modification of the valorisation formula, where there was no increase in the weight of real wages growth from one third to one half. The second example was irresponsible wage growth in the public sector, which has led to a paradoxical situation where average wages are higher than average wages in the private sector. The third example is the covido aid to Czech companies, which the Supreme Audit Office stated, and I quote: Nearly 90 percent of the annual increase in the total expenditure of the state budget was not related to expenditure incurred in the fight against the pandemic of the disease covid 19. End of quote. It is no wonder that, under the strain of the fiscal link between the Czech economy associated with the unwinding of the strict budgetary rules until then, what I do not hesitate to call myself a budgetary crime has occurred. [[13.20 hours]] The Czech economy thus went from market economy to subsidy economy, to eligible economy. Another cost of indebting is the so-called crowding effect, where growth in government spending and structural deficit cause private spending of companies and households to be reduced or net exports. The problem is that government spending, which crowds out private spending, is significantly ineffective compared to these. As a result of the crowding effect, the efficiency of government fiscal policy is much lower. Finally, the third cost of the public finance deficit, which I personally find very difficult, is the cost of operating the state debt. In fact, if we want to express the value of the real costs associated with the service of state debt, then we must include in our consideration the value of the alternative activity that had to be sacrificed. Economists are talking about so-called opportunity costs. When I put it in other words, it is the value of the most valuable alternative that cannot be done. Specifically, the interest payment of more than CZK 100 billion, which is waiting for us by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura in 2025, would cover, for example, all the expenditure of the Ministry of the Interior, or the construction of 200 primary schools, or 315 kilometers of motorways. And so I could go on. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has been paying the debt service costs every year since its inception. In 1993 we started with about CZK 14 billion, which may seem acceptable from today's point of view, but beware that we have to use 1993 prices to express the cost of the opportunity offered. So if we wanted to calculate the accumulated actual costs of interest paid from 1993 until now with regard to inflation, we would come from the point of view of the cost of the opportunity offered to astronomical sums. I estimate, for example, a complete motorway network. If I am to sum up my brief speech as to whether, given the current economic situation, it is necessary to present a recovery consolidation package, the answer is yes. If this did not happen, the cost of doing nothing would be the continued transfer of debts to our children and grandchildren, the continued crowding out of effective private spending by inefficient government spending and finally the astronomical cost of the opportunity offered. While most consolidation packages in the past have been triggered by pressure from adverse external circumstances, we can assign this package to those that are activated by the internal conviction of the current government coalition on the need for redress. These facts lead me to clear support for the set of legal standards presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u47	The last one for the debate is Mr Kasal. Sorry. There are two facts: Mr Nacher and Mr Babka will be prepared. Sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to make three comments on the performance of my colleague, Mr. Nový. One. What will his party colleague Mr. Kučera say? Because we saw a reading speech here that wasn't sent forward in an e-mail. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I don't mind being consistent. But if it bothers Mr. Kučer, he should sign up with the facts, and he should make amends to his colleague. Second point. Here the Minister of Finance stepped up and said that there are two extremes: one is haunted by Řecko and the other by doing nothing. A colleague here gave an example of Řecko, and yet you applauded him here. [[Minister Stanjura's response.]] So I'm gonna... No. It was clear, I listened very well. There was a haunting by Greece. And it seems to me, then, as a coalition MP, inconsistent in relation to his own finance minister. One final point. Mr nový asked the rhetorical question, will anyone lend us a loan in the future? So I would remind him once again that the debt of the Czech Republic in relation to GDP is at half the European Union average - half the average of the European Union. Please don't scare me here! You keep saying we're scaring something. But you're constantly haunting something here. You! You! From pensions starting with not being up to it, through consolidation of public finances. So I would clearly define myself and clearly say, we are, as we are today - seven, eight, at least eight - but when you took over, we were the sixth - the least indebted country. The trend, I'm not saying it's good, but it doesn't seem to imply that there should be words about Greece. And I am so glad that, at the beginning, the Finance Minister warned about this extreme, and his own MP doesn't follow it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u49	The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Babka. He canceled it. Mr. nový. Mr nový will speak with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u50	Mr Nacher, through Mr President, you have listened very badly to me. I will not comment on whether the speeches are read or said from the floor. I certainly didn't haunt Greek here. I have just given Greece as an example of a country that has actually gone through bankruptcy, and I have stressed, I have stressed that we are certainly not in the Greek situation. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] And from that I have derived the responsibility of the current government, which is to prevent the Greek scenario. So much for this part of the speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u51	The next one, with a factual remark, shall be delivered by Mr Volný. Mr. Nacher will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u52	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. For my colleague Nový, I listened well. I listened well. And among other things, it was probably the fifth sentence that you said was controversy about whether we needed a recovery package or not. You said the opposition consistently said we didn't need it. That's not what we said. We said we needed a meaningful package, and not a pasquil, where it is the fifth over nine, as my colleague kolovratník, a pussycat and a dog says. So let's make this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u53	Mr Nacher will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u54	Thank you. Mr. Colleague, through the Vice-President, you have now answered your own question. You say, I didn't scare Řecko, I just pointed out that if we don't accept it, there's some Greece. You just denied yourself. Why didn't you set an example for another country? You're going to set an example of a country that has how many? - a four-fold, four-fold larger debt than the Czech Republic. You could have listed any other country. And you introduced Greece. So obviously it was for me it was a clear scare. Don't be mad at me. And by explaining it, you've gotten all mixed up in it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u55	We now have no factual point and Mr Kasal is in the debate. Mr Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u56	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, members of the government, colleagues, I am quite pleased to follow up on Mr Nový. I have to say one thing, I'll read my post and finally make a comment. The point is, I'm going to read it on purpose, because that is the statement and comment of a member of the National Budget Board of Petr Musil. [[13.30 hours]] We've been squabbling here for three days or talking about how, if it's a recovery package, if it's a tax package, how we want to fix our finances. Basically, we agree that we do. And so allow me to read this: "The Czech Republic will borrow over CZK 137 billion and the government is defending the plan with a claim of the benefit of the loan. It should be stressed, however, that the advantages of the loan can be doubted and the loan mainly means an additional debt to the Czech Republic," says a member of the National Budget Board, Petr Musil. "There's no such thing as a free lunch. It's impossible to eat this lunch and save it for tomorrow. But that is what the Czech Republic is trying to do when it announces at one day and at one point its intention to restore public finances while taking a loan from the European Commission. And it happens to be interesting that this is in a similarly large budget, when we are talking about saving 150 billion in two years, and we want to take CZK 137.4 billion from the European Commission. In May, when the government announced the parameters of the consolidation package at the press conference, there were agreed-to-growing in professional economic circles. Both the National Budget Board and NERV have called the recovery plan a very decent political compromise, which can be a promising start to the consolidation story. But a few weeks later it turns out that she declared savings has her butes. The fact that the government has completed the discussion on whether or not the Czech Republic has taken a loan from the European Commission from the instrument for recovery and resilience has already happened. The loan finally got green from the cabinet in June. Czech Republic will show interest in borrowing over 137 billion crowns. Coincidentally, it's only a slightly lower amount, as I said in the previous part. We don't want subsidies, but we'll borrow them. Union money is to be used to finance mainly decarbonization and digitization projects. Less than two thirds, 85 billion, the Czech government borrows to borrow the money itself, and the remaining third, 52 billion, then means a loan to grant subsidies. It sounds a little paradoxical, on the one hand, the government announced a cut of CZK 55 billion in national subsidies to approve in a few weeks that it would borrow roughly the same amount from Brussels. The loan is defended by a number of arguments, some are of course meaningful, others have question marks and others can be doubted with success. Probably the best argument for the loan is that the Czech Republic will have to invest massively in the coming years in order to achieve its commitments under green transformation and digitalisation. It is obvious that, in addition to the strong imbalance of public finances, our country suffers from a considerable internal debt, i.e. that the Czech economy is largely underinvested and, above all, in some important sectors. Everyone is likely to be attacked by an incompetent motorway and rail network, the need for massive investments in energy, whether it is the core or renewable resources, or the lack of capital amenities of businesses and households related to the already mentioned green transformation. However, there is a need to pour clean wine and be aware of all the consequences. And also to clarify priorities and not try to catch two rabbits at once, who have scattered to different sides. So to consolidate public budgets and at the same time to plan an increase in public debt under the impression that if we borrow it from the European Commission, it is a different debt and perhaps a better debt... In fact, the debate has somehow disappeared to reflect on what a loan from Brussels will mean for Czech public finances and how it will affect public debt or the room for manoeuvre of our own fiscal policy. First of all, it must be said clearly and aloud that the loan means an additional debt to the Czech Republic. If we draw it to the last known nominal GDP, the public debt of the Czech Republic will increase by more than two percentage points. Is this loan really advantageous? Last but not least, it should be pointed out that the loan from Brussels will limit other expenditures that the Czech Republic would otherwise have implemented or could have implemented for a simple reason. The loan is already included in the so-called budget strategy, which forms a binding and unbreakable framework of expenditure, which the Czech Erár can spend until 2026. This does not call into question the fact that the Czech Republic should not invest in the green digital transformation. However, the loan from the European Commission has several other questions. At this point, we don't know at all how much interest we're going to borrow." - When I listened here in the previous days about the interest our government had on bonds, I would have been quite like a right-wing member, and we were wondering how we could borrow something if we didn't know what the interest would be. - "From this point of view, we don't know at all what interest we're going to draw. This is to be known only when the European Commission sends the order to send the first, second or x of the tranche. There's supposed to be six of them. It can only be assumed that the interest rate will be slightly lower than if the Czech government borrows money on its own behalf in the financial markets. In addition, it will be necessary to meet a number of other conditions, the known targets and milestones, so it will not be about the money we can deal with as freely as if we had borrowed through the issue of Czech government bonds on purely national priorities, such as the construction of the motorway network. The offer is also attractive that the maturity of the loan will be thirty years, with the Czech Republic paying only interest for the first ten years." - I also remember when we were talking about pensions, it was repeatedly said here that we were indebting future generations. Does anyone want to tell me if I borrow money and borrow 137 billion for 30 years that I don't owe future generations? - "But anyone who has experience with any long-term loan knows that in the finals the loan amount will be significantly higher and will be overpaid significantly. "It is of course beneficial for the current political elite, because it will reap, while plowing and dragging those who will come after them in the far future. But apparently the biggest risk of a loan from the European Union is the gallows term by which the financial projects must be completed, including the approval and approval by the Commission. That's the end of 2026. It is precisely keeping the pace in the finish line that is a problem in our parts, and if we run out of strength and trip, fail to meet milestones or targets for some projects, we will eventually have to stick with our own resources, so the question is whether it will eventually cost us more." I've read what I think is important and what we're talking about here. On the one hand, we are talking about a consolidation package to reduce our country's debt, and on the other hand, we are borrowing 137 billion crowns from the other side. I know that the Minister of Finance was against this, and so was his advisor, Mr Hampl. It surprises me here that several members of the National Budget Board are opposed to this procedure, and yet it is approved by the government. We have always talked about listening to experts, so it is interesting that for pensions and for reducing pensioners' debt to professionals, lending money from the European Commission under conditions that are certainly not more favourable and that many things that will be difficult will have to be fulfilled there. So here you can see exactly how and who owes our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u57	I thank the honourable Member. I've taken over the meeting and have a good afternoon. And now I have President Tomio Okamura's enrollment to perform with priority rights, and then the rapporteur is signed up. [[Mr Okamura prefers the rapporteur.]] If the President prefers the rapporteur, thank you and please, Mr Jiří Havránek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u58	Thank you for the floor. I thank President Okamur, through Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, after twenty-six, do I count correctly? Almost twenty-seven hours we may be coming to the end of our negotiations. I thank those of you who have performed here in a matter of fact, whether it was from the government, from the opposition, - for example, last night's discussion between Minister of Health and honored colleagues Mádlová and Adámková about celiacism and gluten-free food. [[Or maybe?]] I wanted to say in conclusion - and I promise to be short and then not to take the final word of the rapporteur - what was said here. There were other suggestions, for example, from Mr Kott, who even brought an amendment that concerns the situation of beekeepers. A similar proposal was made by Mr Munzar and others. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, through Mr President, has made an amendment that would perhaps be an sticker because we would have to open the Civil Card Act, but this is what I think the debate is supposed to look like. There has also been a proposal - one to reject, from President Okamura of the SPD; and proposals for a return to pre-treatment, firstly, first from President Okamura, and then, I hope and hope also in the right order, from Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Knechtová and last night finally from Mr Juchelka. I would also like to conclude with one proposal, in accordance with Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw up a reduction in the time limit for negotiations between first and second reading by 10 days to 50 days, which means that we would continue to discuss the proposals and amendments already in substance at the beginning of September. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the 27 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u59	Thank you, too. And now, with priority rights, President Tomio Okamura. Of course, I registered a proposal to shorten the deadlines by ten days. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, on the third day here we are discussing the proposal of the Fialův Government for a so-called consolidation package, and we are witnessing here that the Fialův Government is showing total arrogance of power towards our citizens. Since it is a global tax increase for all citizens and companies in the Czech Republic and it is not a consolidation package and it is not a recovery package at all, but it is a large tax reform that will increase taxes for all without distinction. Not only before the elections, but even recently Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Fialův's five-wheelers publicly claimed that they would not increase taxes. The SPD movement is programmed against tax increases for Czech citizens and companies, and we all know that the state budget can be consolidated without tax increases for Czech citizens and companies, if there is really a cut in expenditure that does not bring anything to the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[Noise in the hall.]] In this context, and for this reason, I would like to remind you that, on behalf of the SPD, I have put forward a motion to reject this government proposal, which would be voted on first here, and subsequently, if my motion to reject has failed, I propose that a second motion be voted on, and that is a return to the drafting of the petitioner, which is the Fialův Government. [[He's turning to the chair.]] Can I just ask for peace?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u61	Yes, I understand, there's really a lot of noise here, so I'm gonna ask you to transfer the debates to the lobby. [[Members of the bench: Shh! Shh!]] Thank you for your help, colleagues and colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u62	In addition, during the three-day discussion at first reading, we learned more, I would say, very disturbing to horrible facts, and that the Fialův Government does not actually have their proposal prepared at all, because we know here that even the parties of the coalition here are still discussing this and each other's proposals for editing your - in quotation marks - consolidation package and you are not even mutually agreed on which items will go into the VAT rate and so on. [[yours]] [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] So, we've been discussing something here for three days, and for three days, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and government MPs... [[He's turning to the chair.]] Can I ask for peace again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u64	So we've been discussing something here for three days, you've put it in the Chamber of Deputies, and then we all know that you're not prepared for it, and that it's not the final version of the government. So it's total chaos, and what exactly is the government coalition defending and suggesting if you don't know what else is going to be at the rate, and basically you're actually consuming public money to run the House, and yet the proposal isn't final? The government consolidation package, as I have already said, is primarily a large and large increase in taxes. And as I was saying, it's also accompanied here in the House, when it should have been prepared from your side - and we do not agree, of course, with the proposal - this is accompanied by total chaos, total chaos. That is why it also turns out that my motion to reject, possibly to complete, was obvious, because it is necessary to complete, because you yourself do not have it ready, which the government MEPs themselves have acknowledged here in three days on live air and it has happened, it is also happening by all the media. Total chaos, total basically, I'd say, confusion. The government is collapsing with the state budget and its inability to manage public finances is to pay Czech citizens and companies according to the government's proposal. And as I was saying, the SPD movement is fundamentally against this tax increase. As I said before, this is in fact a comprehensive and comprehensive tax reform that will have a negative impact on practically all our citizens and companies when adopted. Well, that's true, except for those multinational corporations in whose name you're acting here and whose interests you're defending, which brings out hundreds of billions of tax-free dividends abroad. The SPD movement has argued from the very beginning that the state budget for this year is based on unrealistic figures. And today, our words are confirmed. On the one hand, Petr Fiala's ODS government recruits thousands of new civil servants and, on the other hand, screams that it is necessary to save and refuses to freeze its salaries. As we know, this year, the members of the Fialův Coalition themselves voted to increase the salaries of politicians here in the House. The SPD voted against. And not only have we voted against as an SPD, I have proposed freezing politicians' salaries here for the entire parliamentary term - and you have rejected my proposal here. The deficit of this year's budget has already exceeded CZK 300 billion and is further deepening. The problem is the decline in planned revenues and high spending. Here we see and the media is going on and citizens are reading it, it's true, it's true, like the Minister of Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of Pirates, has four cars, four cars he uses, state, as he orders millions of snacks there, luxury catering at the Ministry of Regional Development is ordering from public money, the amount was - now it was in the media - 20 million crowns and so on. Well, that's an outrage, that's an outrage in a situation - in any situation, but especially in a situation where you want to make the lives of all citizens more expensive, and you grunting at the corsets full of sips. Citizens save or go shopping in Poland or Germany, where it is cheaper, as the government does not solve expensive food and so on. Therefore, sales have been falling in retail trade for more than a year. Thus, the government will also collect less for VAT than it planned. Because of the Fialův Government's failure to manage inflation, the government did not even expect extraordinary pension valorisation. The main problem then is the government's too high-carbon energy prices for its distributors. The expected revenues from CEZ's dividends and so-called windfall tax are also well below expectations, under government expectations, because companies optimized their tax returns. As far as inflation is concerned, we also witnessed other lies here yesterday by Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who says that inflation of 9.7 percent is good or that it may be due to the Fialův Government. Of course, renowned economists immediately refuted this, that it is not even good inflation, that it is of course disproportionately high, because the average inflation in the European Union is now 5.5 percent according to Eurostat estimates, the European Statistical Office, and in the Czech Republic 9.7. [[13.50 hours]] That means once so tall. I don't know what the big deal is about praise. It's another failure of the Fialův government! And here I would like to remind you that Switzerland and Liechtenstein have the lowest inflation in Europe - 1.7 percent, which are not in the euro area. They are not in the euro area. Furthermore, it must be said that the government's submitted material, yours in the quotation marks of the consolidation package, I call it the robbing package, so this material is in no way simply a set of measures to consolidate public finances and reduce the terrible budget deficit and state debt that you caused because it does not contain any proposals to reduce the state's expenditure. In essence, it is only a package of tax laws, as I said, which contains basically an increase in taxes of all types - both natural and legal persons, Czech citizens and companies. Specifically, it is a gross increase in VAT, which means it will really affect all citizens. Furthermore, the sharp increase in real estate tax, although Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura argued recently that the ODS would not increase real estate tax. Furthermore, it is an increase in ownership and rental housing, because, of course, as far as real estate tax is concerned, on the basis of your proposal, the tax is to increase on a regular basis by means of the inflation coefficient. You also propose an increase in corporate tax and an extension of tax progression in natural persons, etc. The proposed measures, and I would like to stress this, will fundamentally damage working families with pre-school children, which will reduce the net annual income by more than CZK 40,000, which is a really large amount, by abolishing the kindergarten tax and reducing the tax discount on the working wife or husband caring for children. That's a really big amount, because the fact that your government robs working families with young children by more than CZK 40,000 a year is really incredible. The SPD movement will not support this package, as I have already said, and we will present a number of amendments. The government's five-calices are putting out a fire in the form of a state budget that's been mismanaged by the government. And I have to say that the catastrophic state of the state budget with the five-calice approved by the state budget, it's really terrifying. As for the deficit that you have voted here at the astronomical rate for this year minus CZK 295 billion, it has been exhausted from 97 percent in the first half of the year even after counting the half-year one-off income from the EU and corporation tax advances. And exactly what the SPD movement has been saying since the beginning is confirmed that this year's state budget is unrealistic and based on unrealistic income and spending. Moreover, the current ODS - that is, the main government party, Prime Minister Fiala and Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura and others - has tricked voters with a promise that they will never raise any taxes. So, on the one hand, Fialův's five-calice government is disproportionately supporting Ukraine, and on the other hand, the five-calice government is giving citizens an austerity package. And, as I was saying, the motion put forward doesn't propose meaningful spending cuts at all. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that you, on the one hand, are talking about some austerity package, you are talking about wanting to deal with public finances, but at the same time you want to take a loan from the European Union of CZK 135 billion. So that's clearly a contradiction. It's incredible just what the Fialův government is doing here! This means, on the contrary, you are going to indebt the Czech Republic even more. That means you're going to award people a raise, tighten their belts, including all pensioners, including families with young children, including disabled people, etc., disabled people, but at the same time you're sending tens of billions abroad, well, hundreds of billions in terms of the outlook, and at the same time you're still taking a loan from the EU for 30 years. So this is really, I must say, an extremely serious situation that you are literally destroying the Czech Republic for decades in advance. You're just gonna burn the ground. And here I'd just point out what I've been pointing out since last year, that in the time of the Fialův government's rule, if you last four years, that debt will rise by more than a trillion crowns. About the astronomical trillion crowns will increase the debt of the Czech Republic! And as we know, of course, you have recorded another record, because government debt increased by CZK 415.3 billion year on year in the first quarter of this year on record and surpassed the truly magical limit of CZK 3 trillion. These are the incredible housenumer that the Purple government is working with here, which you simply astronomically and steeply indebt all citizens of the Czech Republic! Basically, it's been a million times that we're really gonna be licking ourselves out of for decades. The debt ratio increased to 44.5 percent of GDP. It was reported by the Czech Statistical Office. Only this indicator should, in my opinion, be sufficient for the immediate demise of the Fialův government. And those arguments I hear that the Czech Republic has a debt ratio of 44.5 percent of GDP and I have heard this debt ratio in the last parliamentary term, often operated with it by former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, so you must all be joking! This means saying that we are in debt little compared to other countries, so we can be in debt more, you must be joking! Is that how you manage your homes? That you owe a little, so you get even more in debt, that it's okay because the neighbor owes even more? You can't be serious! Defending this one incredibly, I would say, poor fiscal policy with these arguments, I can't believe it! The goal should be a balanced budget and the Czech citizen and the Czech Republic first, and this is the SPD programme. Of course, let us also see what is happening here under your government with real wages, because the decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is the highest of all OECD member countries, which brings together virtually all or vast majority of developed countries or those developed countries, more developed countries of the world. So objectively, the Fialův government is even the worst, the worst in the world can be said if we are talking about the more developed countries. I'm not talking about Africa, and so on, because you might want to get us there gradually, but you're also getting us there with your activism and by having your blinders on, but the SPD wants to compare itself with the most advanced countries in the world. There we want to drag the Czech Republic - up. Another indication that 55 percent of Czech employees currently have a problem with their income. It is the data of the operator of our largest work portals, LMC, with a significant difficulty of 20 percent of our employees. That means... Can I have some more peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u65	Yes. I'm really gonna ask you, too. I'm picking up louder calls on the right side of the hall. Thank you for moving to the lobby and please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u66	So in the first phase, you reached three million pension recipients this spring. In the first phase, you robbed an average of CZK 1,000 a month, this June, when the statutory valorisation was due to be three million beneficiaries of old-age, disability, widows and orphans' pensions. The SPD protested loudly. We fought against it here, we resisted it, but there are 20 Members out of 200 of us. We did everything we could. You overruled us. [[14.00 hours]] So you first took money from three million pension recipients, and President Petr Pavel signed it, supporting you, who is in the same boat with you. And now you've touched the working people. Which I consider to be a big economic problem, because those people who are of working age and their contributions are also paid for, of course, pensions, because we have an ongoing pension system, so those who... they actually have an economy on them, so you've cut off your incompetence. So not only 3 million pension recipients have been robbed of money, and more than a million of them, according to the official statistics of the various statistics that we have on the media mainstream, are already on or below the poverty line, so now you've reached the working population as well. And, of course, it's an economical thing that doesn't do any good at all. If I underline and sum it up, Dušek clearly say, for example, that your government package - tax package - the average Čech will cost CZK 15,000 a year. Of which, 7,000 will be paid to the state in taxes, and the rest will be lost on cuts, reliefs and deductions. This means you are actually costing every citizen of the Czech Republic 15 000 crowns a year, which is a really monstrous amount. Of course, we absolutely cannot agree with this. And once again, the SPD movement is fundamentally against it, because the savings can be made elsewhere and otherwise, and I have already presented this in detail in many of my speeches. And once again, let me just remind you that I filed a motion on behalf of the SPD for a rejection that would be the first to vote. And if this proposal of mine is rejected, then I propose a return to work, which I think at least this coalition proposal should accept, because you have admitted yourself during this week that you do not have it done, because you are arguing yourself in the coalition about what items will be at what rate and you are not yet agreed. The problem is that all citizens of the Czech Republic and the Czech company are the hostages of your incompetence and chaos. So it brings back the uncertainty, there are other problems again. And, of course, insecurity in the economy, insecurity among citizens, that's a chain problem, and it doesn't bode well at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u67	Thank you. And the next priority is President Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, ministers. They say there are two kinds of frauds. To believe in something that's not true or not believe something that's true. I believe that after a few long days in which we have devoted ourselves in detail to the tax package, there could not be a single Member left in this House who, perhaps in the corner of his mind, would believe that the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura kept his promise and found most of the savings promised on the budget's spending side. That there is not one Member in this House who does not know that this tax package means the highest tax increase in our country's modern history. Which is from the government, which has yet to curse in the winter, that no taxes will be raised, betraying not only the voters, on the programming statement, on the House, but above all betraying itself. The Minister of Finance is a bunch of crooks. He borrows money from those born in 2040 for transport investment, especially in order not to see it in the deficit of this year's budget, hours and hours can talk about tens of billions saved from subsidies, but if you ask him what kind of subsidy he has in mind, he will address the state budget elsewhere. Yes, for the state budget, which, as the world's first finance minister, is planning at open intervals. And, of course, the tax package is nothing more than the masterpiece of this shibal. Šibala, who, with the urgency of the 90th pot salesman, wants to sell to the Chamber of Deputies for 150 billion notes, which we will commit Czech households to the annual payment of tens of thousands of crowns to the accounts of the Ministry of Finance at the Czech National Bank. And that is only because he has not found enough time, courage and humility to properly collect taxes on existing and promised savings where he has promised. I mean, on the expense side of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the golden rule of defense against unfair offers is never to say yes, nor do I agree. Please do not say yes or agree with the tax package, at least until the government has stopped fogging about spending on the budget. You will avoid hangover until you find that the only savings the government most of you have found was tax increases for Czech families, businessmen, property owners and companies. None of you can really say today that the tax package and its harmfulness have been made known. We've looked into each of the amendments to 63 laws and most of the 229 unsolved contradictions. You didn't find yourself in time or under pressure. So you won't be able to make excuses for being deceived by the Minister of Finance. In the package leaflet, or explanatory note, which everyone has at your disposal, there is still a warning on page 21 in black on white written by the courageous experts of the Ministry of Finance: That this draft will cause a decline in Czech economic performance, unemployment growth, negative social effects, loss of credibility, and I also supply your own political capital. Even your own political capital, but that's your business. Yes, of course, the elderly officials of the Ministry of Finance have a historical memory, and they know best what mistakes the government coalitions are able to make in the blindness of their ideologies. They remember well what blunt cuts and tax increases have done to our economy by the last ODS government. They warned their Parliament back then, just as they are now warning us. Each of you has the opportunity to learn from the mistakes of your predecessors these days. Do not be afraid to face what you do not believe, even if you feel that you will stand alone. You're not alone. 89 percent of the population of the Czech Republic is behind you who think that savings should be sought on the expense side. There are two thirds of Čech behind you who are convinced that Zbyněk Stanjura's tax package is a bad joke. And you have 69 percent of the nation behind you, which according to current research by the Academy of Sciences does not agree with the work of the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. The last wish I now have for it. Please remember my parliamentary promise: "I pledge my honor to carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. " For the sake of all the people, according to the best knowledge and conscience. And now please look again at the presentation report on the tax package, yes, the RIA report on page 21. Where there is an uncompromising confession by the Ministry of Finance that the present law will send this country into recession and many people into poverty. Please think about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u69	Thank you, too, and since I have no one else registered, I am ending this general debate and I will ask for final words. Mr. Finance Minister's final word, Zbyněk Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u70	Good afternoon. I asked my colleagues if they wanted to go home or if I had all the lies that were said here to disprove. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues from the government, thank you for the debate that lasts 27 hours. The number already means it was long, so it was thorough, sometimes general, sometimes detailed. I have tried my best to answer your questions during the debate. If you don't have arguments, you resort to personal insults. Well, courtesy won't let me tell you how brave the Ministry of Finance's professional officials are talking about the period when Minister Alena Schillerová was at the Ministry of Finance. I'm not going to resort to personal insults, because eventually, as I like to say, the numbers and the facts decide. In the debate, I'm going back to square one when we started Wednesday at 2:00 p.m., I asked two questions. First, whether we need to consolidate public finances. I replied that I did, and many opponents answered that I did. The second question I asked was whether public budgets were in good shape and I replied that they were not. Here we no longer agree with the opposition and are here - and those who lead the opposition who claim to do nothing. Those who say we have to consolidate agree with us in this fundamental agreement and we will argue in the second and third reading about which instruments, which ways, how quickly or how slowly to contribute to that consolidation. In my introductory words, I said that the submitted material, a bill that amends more than 60 other laws, is a good political compromise and compromise is not a dirty word. Yes, there are five government parties. Like the two opposition parties, we have our own programs, we have our own voters, and we have made some compromise in finding agreement. I also said that if such a consolidation recovery package were to be prepared by any government party - but the same applies to any opposition party - alone, the package would logically look different and their political agenda would be fully projected there. We need that package. I think it'll be good if we let him go first reading today, send him to the committees. We have proposed a shortening of the deadline so that we can have a second reading in the standard scheduled week of the Chamber of Deputies meeting, that is, in the week that begins if I am not mistaken on 4 September. I was not the one who complained during those three days that there were no amendments yet, because I said there was still time for amendments. I also promised twice on the microphone that after second reading we would carefully examine all amendments that would fall, regardless of who would be their author. I've heard many times how it's going to change. If you'd told us in advance, we'd have put it here in the '90s, you wouldn't have vetoed it, and everyone would have been sure of what they were negotiating and what they were going to vote on after those three days. However, we assumed that you too would want to put forward your proposals, your counter-proposals, and we assume that, therefore, it seems normal to me that each of the Members could exercise their constitutional right and, even in this case, to make an amendment. Let's see how many there will be and see how many the Chamber of Deputies agree with each other most of the time. Finally, on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, I would like to ask you to release this bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u71	Thank you, too. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? No. So we will proceed to the vote on the proposals. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'll check everyone out, please log in with your registration cards. I note that President Tomio Okamura has proposed the rejection of the proposal, and if the rejection is not accepted, we will vote on the proposal for completion. So now we will vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 19, 170 Members and Members were enrolled, for 72, against 98. The motion was denied. Furthermore, the proposal was proposed to return the proposal submitted to the applicant for completion. This proposal was made by Members of Tomio Okamura, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Knechtová, and this was also proposed by Mr Juchelka. And we will now vote on the proposal to get back to work. I've started the vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 20, 170 Members voted in favour of 72, against 98. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am asking who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. I've started the vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In vote number 21, 170 votes were cast, for 167, against 0. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Furthermore, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee to the next, the Economic Committee as a committee to the next, and the Committee on Social Policy as a committee to the next. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, please. A motion for another committee, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u72	So I suppose it affects cities and municipalities, budgetary determination of taxes, real estate tax, so it should definitely be in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u73	Thank you, I've logged. I don't see another application anymore. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'll ask for peace in the hall, really, colleagues, colleagues. So, first of all, we will vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 22, 170 votes cast, for 136, against 4. This proposal was adopted. [[14.20 hours]] Furthermore, who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a committee for further consideration. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 23, 170 votes were cast, for 170, against 0. The proposal was therefore ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee. There is also a motion for a commandment to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 24, 170 votes were cast, for 145, against 4. The proposal was also ordered for discussion by the Committee on Social Policy. The last vote was proposed on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 25, 170 Members voted in favour of 77, against 15. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been accepted. There was still a proposal in the debate to shorten the deadline. The rapporteur has tabled a proposal to shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who is in favour of this proposed shortening of the deadline? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 26, 170 votes were cast, for 98, against 69. This proposal has also been adopted. I am of the opinion that we have dealt with all the voting proposals. I thank the Minister, thank the rapporteur, and I conclude this point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting the 71st session of the Chamber of Deputies, which we will continue on Wednesday. [[Reservations from Mrs Balaštíková to vote and request for control.]] About the vote, the vote control. [[Members are leaving the hall.]] Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, there is still a review of the vote. We'll wait a while. Mrs Balaštíková to vote. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u74	I'm questioning the vote. I've been checking my routine. I don't know why I have a bad vote, so I'm questioning him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u75	So, I'm sorry, it needs to be said the way the wording really is, as you voted, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u76	I voted no, I've got a pro on the lineup. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u77	Thank you. So I'm gonna call my colleagues and colleagues back to the ballroom and we're gonna vote on the objection. Mrs Balaštíková objected to the vote. Yes, I'll check you all out. Please log in with your registration cards again. So first of all, objection. The numbers are piling up. First of all, we will therefore vote on Mrs Balaštíková's objection to the vote. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this objection? Who's against it? In vote number 27, 162 votes were cast, 158 votes against zero. Objection received. Madam, let me just make sure. This is the last final vote to shorten the time limits. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] That's right. Make it clear to everyone. We will therefore repeat the vote on the rapporteur's proposal to shorten the deadline by 10 days to 50 days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? This is a vote on a proposal to shorten the time limit. Who's against it? In the vote number 28, 164 votes were cast, for 95, against 69. I am of the opinion that the proposal to shorten the deadline has been adopted. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] I'll ask the President to wait. I'm just going to formally close this point. I will now give the President the opportunity to speak with priority rights. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Maybe we'll wait a little while before colleagues and colleagues quiet down in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u78	I absolutely do not understand why you did not allow discussion in the Committee on Regional Development when there is a major change in the budgetary determination of taxes, when it is clearly stated in the media area that you want a big change there, you are dealing with a union of cities and municipalities. We hear here all the time that we're supposed to keep the expert debate on committees and then you can't afford it? How are we supposed to trust you guys to have a debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u79	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u80	Madam President, the explanation is very simple. Any committee can take any press freely for its discussion, and other committees of the Chamber of Deputies can discuss this law and do nothing to prevent it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u81	Thank you. With priority rights, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u82	Mr Vice-President, through Madam Vice-President, I dare to oppose you. It has to be voted on. Of course, we do not have a majority in any committee, please remember that through the Vice-President. But you could have shown good will here, good will to technical, honest, professional, debate. That's it, and you just rejected it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u83	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Bartošek is still applying for priority rights. I'm just asking you to address me through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u84	Again for clarification, a short trip to history. As I recall, investment incentives were discussed in this way without a commandment. That possibility exists here, you can do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u85	Thank you. Mr. President of the KDU Parliamentary Club Aleš Dufek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u86	Please, I really would hate to think of it as a gesture, certainly not. If that is the case, I will - and I think we can agree - so that the Regional Administration Committee can discuss it. I really wouldn't want it to be taken like that, like that's our gesture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u87	Thank you and Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u88	I appreciate the position of the new President of the KDU-ČSL Club and therefore take it as a word that this is a good will. But I think that next time you could make a deal, and you should show that good will by the vote. Nevertheless, I take this as a positive step, because I think it is essential for this committee to discuss this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-14-ps2021-071-04-001-002.u89	Thank you. This also ended applications with priority rights. Ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will continue on Wednesday, 19 July at nine o'clock. I would remind you that on Wednesday, July 19, the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 14:00. Have a nice rest of the day, everyone.
