ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u1	25. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and Act No. 286/2022 Coll., amending Act No. 353/2003 Sb., on excise duties, as amended /house print 444/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Minister, please, you have the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I ask you to keep your voice down so that the Minister can state his point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u2	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. Very briefly, I will justify this simple amendment. I will remind you that last year, in response to temporarily increased fuel prices, we reduced the excise duty on diesel and natural oil for four months. Then, as both chambers of Parliament, we decided to extend this reduction in excise duty to diesel until the end of 2023. Fortunately, price developments in world markets, whether oil or petroleum products, are very favourable. At this point, we see how low the end prices of diesel are. At the same time, we see how much difference there is per litre between diesel fuel and Natural 95 petrol, so the government has assessed that at this point there is no need to support this commodity from public sources, from taxpayers' money. He's suggesting that we return to the original excise duty on diesel fuel. Because the proposal is actually simple and it brings potentially high revenue to the state budget - the estimate is 800 million crowns per calendar month - so we suggested that we approve it in the first reading, while at the same time making the law effective and valid the first month after the month in which it comes out in the Collection of Laws. [[Day?]] [[17,00 hours]] I have been informed that the opposition wants to veto the discussion of this proposal in the first reading. Personally, I do not understand why, except that it does not want revenue to be increased to the state budget this year. That is legitimate, but it does not seem entirely reasonable to me, because in this case it is indeed an effective date. If you look at the Rules of Procedure, in addition to the fact that the opposition has sufficient space to possibly criticize and vote against it, it may also propose a different proposal of effectiveness in the 90's, at the same time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I respect that if you veto it, but I can't imagine any other proposal that you can possibly bring to second reading than other efficiency, or a different amount of tax, probably higher than the one we want to return to. I'd like to ask you to consider this if you want other effectiveness before 1. 1. this year or later, so that the exception applies more than 1. 1. 2024, you have room for this in the proceedings under Section 90, paragraph. 2. If you don't, and you don't, and you don't want that term, then I'm sure you'll have enough space to say, from the speaker's desk, the reasons why you're against it and then vote against it. [[unintelligible]] Otherwise, let's say one calendar month - 800 million revenue to the state budget and to the SFDI. I know it's a shared tax, we all know that, but that's 800 million for public budgets, including the SFDI budget. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, that's the whole opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u3	Yes, thank you, and now I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Hana Naiclerová, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, on what the Minister said, I will briefly sum up the development of the excise duty adjustment last year. First, there was a reduction in the Act No.131/2022 Coll. On 11 May 2022 and this law reduced the excise duty on diesel by a crown of fifty per litre between 1 June and 30 September 2022. The reason for this amendment was an effort to mitigate the impact of the energy crisis on fuel prices caused by the invasion of the armed forces of the Russian Federation on Ukraine's territory by business entities and citizens of the Czech Republic. This law was therefore passed in the spring of 2022 and this reduction in excise duty was effective by the end of September 2022. Then we passed Law No. 286/2022 Coll., which extended the efficiency of the current reduced rate of diesel oil of CZK 8 450 per 1000 litres until the end of 2023. If we had not approved this law, there would have been an automatic increase in oil tax from 1 October 2022. As we all see, the reasons for reducing this tax have passed, oil prices are one of the lowest in the EU countries. The bill returns the excise duty rate on diesel to the original amount. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed from the first day of the first calendar month following its publication. If we do not approve this law, there will still be an increase automatically from 1. 1. 2024. However, the aim of the proposal is to do this as soon as possible, as you have already said, to save about 4.5 billion. The government hereby proposes to consent to the law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, good afternoon, I am opening a general debate and Mr Kolovratník is signed up for the general debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u6	Hello, thank you for the floor, Madam President, good afternoon, fellow Members. I'm happy to present our opposition position here on the law. We agree that the 90th itself, the petition of you as a petitioner, Mr Minister or a petitioner, my colleagues, the representatives of the government, will speak for our club, President Schillerová, but I will talk about the reasons why we cannot agree with the proposal, why we do not agree with it and why I think it is not a good decision these days. At the beginning of my speech I would like to borrow a quote, or here I will repeat and quote the Minister Stanjur from last autumn, where it was publicly said and argued why the crown 50 per litre was being introduced - sorry, it was not from last autumn, it was from last year, from the spring period maybe, I am specifying, from this time: "We want to help mainly Czech road transporters who are driving primarily on diesel, so that they are especially more competitive in border areas. Most of the surrounding countries apply the minimum excise duty rate laid down by the European Directive. When VAT is charged, a reduction in excise duty of CZK 50 may be reflected in the final prices for drivers up to CZK 80 per litre. It would have been so much higher prices at petrol stations since October if we had not extended the reduced tax," said Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura last year. What the Minister has said here in that brief opening word may have a certain ratio. I will certainly not question clear figures, given the fact that the price of diesel actually fell in this period, so low in recent weeks, that it is significantly inexpensive, it is competitive for both our transporters, so let's say it's interesting price for the transiting carriers that are passing through the Czech Republic and it doesn't have to speculate on the price if they buy it somewhere in the surrounding countries and the Czech Republic will go through it, as it happened in the past, or whether they will buy it from us. But we have two or at least I see two basic arguments that are simply problematic. Probably the main one is the predictability of the legal environment and the predictability of the parameters, the boundaries of the playground on which we play. Here's the argument that every week or month that we're going to extend the change, let's say that we're losing the state budget by CZK 800 million. Yeah, but they worked with the 800 million crowns every month and counted on it, Minister, not just drivers who drive, maybe once a month, but it's not that important to them, but it's the money that entrepreneurs, carriers are counting on, and I'm going to talk mainly about public transport, public transport for passengers, for citizens. These may be the bus carriers that order the regions, who have their calculations priced for the period that has therefore been predicted by you by your government until 30 December 2023. They may as well be railroad carriers. Just for the record, I've been looking, it's an illustration number, please, only the Czech Railways in passenger transport, so I don't include the other, slightly smaller and significantly smaller private carriers, only the Czech Railways buy about 46 million litres of diesel each year. Such a change, where you therefore argue an asset to the state budget, is some CZK 70 million. Okay, we can say that this is a year and that if I divide it by 12, that is going to be CZK 5.7, maybe 6 million a month only in the Czech Railways, but it is one of many examples, one of many illustrations, and I could continue with these figures. Transport companies in the Czech Republic, their associations - and now I apologize, I don't have an exact number, I suspect there are about twelve of them - so the average purchase of diesel, diesel for all transport companies in the Czech Republic, where we know that 100% mothers - owners, founders - are municipalities, cities, there are similar numbers, again it comes out plus minus some 60 million crowns per year, maybe a little bit, a little bit smaller, about CZK 5 million per month it will be a price increase that will translate into public transport. Logically, cities will not contribute to this, there is probably no room to give them more money at this time, when they themselves have increased costs, probably even transport businesses will not have room for further increases or more expensive fare, which means it will remain in quotation marks for nothing. That's what I want to point out. I understand your efforts, the argument, the desire to speed it up, to have at least 800 million crowns as soon as possible, but I warn you that these costs - I know that similar stories can be heard a lot, others and others in other areas of economic life, but in public transport it is just that. And it's the money you're taking away from public transport, both the railways, the railway carriers, and the transport companies. And perhaps even a quick quote or a few short arguments from Česmad, i.e. from freight carriers on the road. If we could have a debate here right now that we want freight to go to railroads rather than roads, but it's similar with them. The oil prices are on it, we're on it now just like the other foreign countries. If you look at the statistics, in the reports, in the economic statements of ČESMAD carriers, i.e. the road freight carriers, last year they were more successful in international tedres, they have more performance in truck transport, and once again they have set up contracts, competing contracts, often it's in the private sector, so I don't just talk about the public, built on some kind of pricing, including the crown of 50, the excise tax, which now in the middle of running suddenly you want to return. [[17.10 hours]] And perhaps the last argument, and that will be up to you, Minister, maybe even a question and I will beg for an answer. Now the oil's downstairs. We all wish it was, to keep it. But let's remember last year. What if it changes in September or October? I know it's a hypothetical question, but what if it changes in September, October or November and costs, like, 45 or 50 crowns again? Will the government come back with a quick precaution and you'll reduce the consumption back by a crown of fifty? I think you understand where I'm going with this. In our opinion, ad hoc from month to month is not a good, prudent and serious decision-making against partners who then work with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u7	I thank you, too, and your performance raised three factual points. I am the first Mrs Zajíčková, but I do not see Mrs Zajíčková. Then Minister Stanjura. Please, Minister, with two minutes in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u8	Martin Kolovratník would be telling the truth if the price were constant. Or does he really want to tell me when he talked about public transport that these contracts are updated every week between the county and the carrier? So, Mr. Ambassador, look up on the Internet, for example, what was the average price of diesel in December of last year - 37.93 and today is 31.38. Six fifty! Did the carriers make it cheaper for the regions when it's 6 kroner down? They projected these price changes into the amendments to the contracts and they said, now it's 6 CZK per liter less, we don't ask you to do so much? Even if we put that crown in 80, it'll still be four fifty less per liter than the moment they negotiated the contracts. So what's the story? It can't be just a one-way street: when it's up, I raise contracts, when it goes down, I keep it! Is this how our regions behave? Don't they demand a discount? If not, those businesses have plenty of room due to favourable price developments. Unlike you, I don't take pictures at gas stations when prices are low. [[tall?]] Those weren't government MPs taking pictures. I don't know why you don't take pictures today and say, "Look, the prices are down!" Remember? I think it was actually your movement where you took your picture. You want to doubt that it's six crowns less? Is that reflected in the prices? Is it argued in those prices that competed in private or in the public sector, this positive development in prices? Or is it all at the expense of margins, and we're thinking that crown 80 is awful? It would be true if the price was still the same. If the price were still the same, we wouldn't have come up with this proposal. You want this to continue to apply from January 1st next year, the relief? If so, it's legitimate. This hypothetical question, what happens if it's October 40, 45, 50? Too bad you didn't say 100, like some said last year. Okay, what happens if it's next February? [[Time, Minister?]] If we don't change the law, it's going up on January 1st anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u9	Another point of fact is made by Mr Hrnčíř. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to comment on what has been said here. Yes, oil prices are at the lowest level, reaching a lower level than before the conflict in Ukraine. It is precisely because the excise tax on diesel has been reduced, it is also due to the strong koruna and we have finally managed to compare the level of excise duty as is in Poland, Slovakia or Hungary. Even international transporters included the Czech Republic in the fuel plans, where really those trucks, which roam the Czech Republic, as we all know, started to refuel with us. Maybe it would be better if the government didn't make sure those trucks didn't drive as busy as they do, and they didn't destroy so many roads. Maybe the fines, if they actually carried out the check properly, maybe they'd outnumber what we're missing from the excise tax now, according to Minister Stanjura's mouth. Perhaps it would be a better way, and we certainly do not want to increase the excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u11	I also thank you for the time being and Mr Lochman is also signed in. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, my fellow Members, I wonder where this populism may yet go, my colleague Kolovratník. I was looking at how much diesel was costing us when we introduced this measure: 48 eight crowns, 48 crowns at that time. Now he's at 30, 31 by the kurs. cz. Just so we know, and we're on average. And a crown of fifty is a liter of what brings just a reduced excise duty. I've been thinking for a while because we're both moving in traffic, if you're here for citizens, for taxpayers, or if you're speaking for ČESMAD, for carriers who are just making a much bigger margin on it. And as has already been said here, yes, they didn't discount individual services, although they have today, if I'm looking at it right, 17 kroner cheaper diesel than they had 1. The 7th of last year. And you said what they were counting on, we're taking it away from them now. How could they count on that? The price of diesel is changing. At the beginning of the year the price of average diesel was 37.20, now it is 32, under 32 crowns. So what were the carriers counting on? With 37 or 32? Now, if we change that tax, it's going to be up to - if the koruna and half on the market are paying - 33.50 on the oil, so the price is still going to be significantly lower. By the way, in June 2021, the price was 31,50, so we're in June 2021 after the whole inflation we had here! So I really want to say that if we're going to pay the taxpayers' money, and it's 800 million, almost a billion a month, that doesn't make sense. Then we give them to foreign trucks that pass through the Republic and foreign carriers!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u13	Well, thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník is prepared by Mr Kobza. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u14	Please, really stop labeling us with this populism and all that. It's not populism, my colleague! And if there was an argument that they didn't discount you or them - well, they didn't, because you starved them last year because the prices were so high! That's why we sometimes took photos of those totems and tried to point out that you simply weren't able to do anything about those prices last year and that many of those involved, whether we were private or public in transport, simply went completely to the brink that they might have taken money from their budget, from their budgets that they had aside for investment and so on and so on and so on. So please don't label us! It's our legitimate opinion that you're simply changing the rules halfway through the game, all of a sudden in the middle of the year. First of all. Secondly, I also replied to the Member, Minister Stanjur, for the photo shoot. So let's be fair on the county. I admit it could be halfway between us in that argument somewhere. We both know, or most of us, that there are so-called brute treaties and net contracts. In the first case, the carrier has only the costs paid, it has no profit, then it is on my side, so it goes to the client, which is mostly the region, i.e. a greater loss, and you are right that it does not have to concern the self-government of the net contract. But I guess we don't have to stall here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u15	Thank you and Mr Kobza is now signed in, Minister Stanjura will be prepared, followed by Mr Lochman. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will try, dear colleagues, to be very brief. I would just like to remind a certain Mr Laffer, who defined the link between tax increases and tax returns, that from some tax increases those taxes will just start to fall in absolute terms, the return. After all, the affair with the so-called windfall tax shows it quite well. And I think raising taxes is not a way, on the contrary. We should cut the taxes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u17	Thank you, and now it's the Minister's turn. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u18	If I wanted to lighten up the previous performance, Mr. Laffer's affair. [[17.20 hours]] But Martin Kolovratník did not respond to the essentials. He argued that it was from day to day. Have we reduced the day-to-day tax? Or did someone have to prepare for it? We've reduced from one day to the next. It was supposed to be until September 30th. What were the carriers counting on? When did we extend it? Months before September 30th, or day to day? Day to day at the end of September. It means, it's the unevenness, it goes down from day to day, it goes up, it doesn't go up. When the price of oil moves by two cents, it immediately reflects on the price, because the price of oil rises when the price of oil falls, so we hear an argument: we have to slowly project it, we have purchased supplies. They never have supplies at a time when the price of oil is rising, they're always bought supplies at a time when the price of oil is decreasing. And it's a legitimate question, what were those carriers counting on? What's the price when you say they didn't count on 34? What were they counting on in the plans? Were they really here, did we read the estimates in December or November that oil would cost in May 31,50? That's a positive surprise. If it's a positive surprise, why do we have to subsidize it? That's a false argument. Do you know any transport company that has entered into a contract with, for example, the Pardubice Region or the city of Pardubice, which calculated the price of CZK 32 including tax? That's what we're gonna do to make sure there's a tax-free price. Yes or no? I don't know that kind of company. So don't say, if the price after the tax increase is lower than what they've calculated, it'll still be lower than that, that it's inconvenient. Yes, there will be a lower profit, but we do not have a guaranteed constitutional right to profit. When profit is right - stand, hands off, when loss is - state, take care. And then I hear we have high deficits. That doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Next up, Mr Lochman. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u20	Thank you. Don't worry, I'll try to cut it short. It's just that Mr. Kolovratník said that we didn't help the carriers last year. So it's just that the price was forty-eight, after a reduced excise tax was introduced, it fell to 43 crowns, first the crown and a half, and then followed the trend, and the last quarter in the year when the price was between 45 and 43 crowns, then it ended at 37.7 on average. So if you're saying we didn't help them, there's something wrong because the price went down and then it just fell and fell. And then Kobza said we should cut taxes. That's fine, but then I'd like to know how we're gonna pay for school, kindergarten, traffic service and so on. And I wonder when Mr Kobza says that taxes should be reduced by how many times he proposed a reduction in excise duty in the previous parliamentary term or in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u21	Thank you. The last entry is Mr Munzar with a factual remark. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to my colleague Kolovratník, through you. Actually, I'll follow up on the last words the minister said. Every good caretaker has to assume that sometimes years are good, rich, and sometimes, unfortunately, years are hard and poorer, and in the case of those years harder and poorer, which was last year, he cannot expect to take over everything for him. I remember when we personally discussed, for example, in the media, whether the government was doing enough. You actually questioned the reduction in excise duty, you said it wasn't enough. It is forgotten that we may have helped by forgiving part of the road tax that we could have forgiven for small cars. The state did what it should have done at the time. If we'd gone your way as you advised us to go the way of Hungary, we'd have a shortage of fuel here. Now we hear from you that, again, the crown of 50 is a big problem with excise duty, but at this point, we have to think about the health of public finances and what the state can afford. And just one last comment. When I hear how it is needed abroad, let us remember that, for example, Germany, which you gave us as an example of how much excise duty has been reduced, and this has been reduced from a lower base, has been returned three months later. So I think the government has kept this reduced tax here for a very long time. Fuel prices have calmed down, so now it's time to think about public budgets again. I am also a supporter of low taxes, I would also like lower taxes, but at the same time the health of public finances must be thought of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u23	Thank you. In addition, Mr Mašek's point of view. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u24	Madam President, my dear government, my colleagues, I would like to respond to Minister Stanjura, who mentioned here that we would, in fact, harm state finances, the state budget. I'd just like to remind you, Minister, I've had the pleasure of being Vice-President of the Covido Commission in the past period. That's where you pushed us into replacements, and when we talked about it, you said, well, that's your budget, because I also argued that it would damage the state budget. So I just want to remind you that some things come back in an arc. There's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. We have brought about 800,000 tons more in the past year, if I have good information, and we still have an exception to the import of oil from the Russian Federation, so that we don't paint here, where the price of diesel goes down into our diesel engines, so there's more of these connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u25	Thank you. President Schillerová has now signed up with priority rights. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Secretary, well, we mainly want real deficits. We would just like the budget for 2023 to be real. That's what we're calling all the time and most about, and I'm regular at every meeting. And we didn't cancel, Mr Lochman through Madam Vice-President, we didn't cancel the EET, you canceled it. We didn't resign to fighting the gray economy. When was the last time we heard the tax cobra hesitant about fighting transfer prices and so on? Nothing, nothing, nothing. So please start and sweep your own doorstep. Allow me, on 1 June, this will be the year that the five coalition government announced a reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel by a crown of fifty and, according to the Ministry of Finance, this step should have led to a reduction in final fuel prices for consumers by a crown of 80 per litre of fuel, as pumpers, thanks to a reduction in excise duty, would have paid less VAT in the register. In September last year, the government decided to extend this measure by leaving it in force until the end of 2023. And we're simply saying that the promises of this government weigh as much as a beeper. We will prepare a consolidation package, two-thirds will be spending-side savings, reality: 80 per cent will be dusty tax increases; we will not increase taxes, reality: we will raise your taxes by 70 billion every year, and the reduction of excise duty on diesel by the end of 2023, it was another promise, reality: it is 16 May 2023 and the government is sending to the House of Amendment, which is due to return the fuel tax before summer holidays, I think now the excise tax where it was. One doesn't even have to be an insider to know what the main reason for this haste is. The cash implementation of the state budget, the annual deficit of which is planned by the Minister, the Government, this House, of course, by the five-calice side, to CZK 295 billion, which is marginally close to its year-round limit these days. By the end of April, we were at CZK 200 billion. And as we know, ladies and gentlemen, those you are interested in, members of the budget committee, may is also due to personal income tax returns, to fiscally more demanding months. In other words, the Czech Republic is actually getting into big trouble as a result of short-sighted budget tricks, which I have been pointing out here for over six months, and probably close to the limit of insolvency and serious liquidity problems. Who laughs last time, who laughs best, says the old woman. Of course, the 800 million crowns each month that reduce this excise tax cost the state budget, the government is now acutely lacking, I understand, so it comes to the House with the intention of breaking the x-th promise of its vows in order, because it was never really about ordinary people who are pumping their 60 liters a month. It wasn't about Czech drivers last June, when the excise tax was reduced by a crown of fifty, and it is not about them even now, when the tax, contrary to its promises, intends to increase again in the middle of the year before the summer holidays. [[17.30 hours]] What will be the attitude of the YES movement? We consulted today for quite a long time both at the club bureau and at the club itself. We insist that you keep your promises. We understand the reality of the hundred-eighty that you're just going to get what you want, but in any case, we're calling on you to make the state budget for this year, which is already beginning to come across your cash ceiling. That's why you come up with these rash steps that are nothing more than a foretaste of your tax package. I, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, give the veto according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. I am supporting it with more than 50 signatures from the members of the ANO movement, which I will hand over immediately after my speech to the Vice-President, and we want us to discuss it, to debate on the committees, to justify and explain why you are constantly breaking your promises. [[President Schiller shows the plenary with signatures]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u27	Thank you, too, and I have Mr Lochman's point of order, and Mr Rozvoral will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Schillerová, through Madam President, just a brief comment on the EET. It's never been verified what the blackout is. If you presented it, it was more of a sucked out of the finger, and there really wasn't a lot of good claims on it. About the veto you just announced here. I would just like to say that every month it will cost taxpayers, citizens of this country at least 800 million, we will be approaching a billion. By presenting the veto, each month you made sure that our state would increase its debt. So just so that we know that when you're blaming our debts, it's also important to say that this afternoon, May 16th, if I'm not mistaken, you've contributed to this, and so if we're delaying the excise duty on diesel for the next month, it just needs to be repeated that it's over 800 million a month. That's gonna increase the debt. So then you have to choose if you criticize the finance minister or us, the coalition, that we are growing debts, whether you are also responsible for this by chance, whether what you did earlier in the previous government, where we inherited a country that was the fastest, but really the fastest, in debt in the EU, and, at the same time, by helping that veto of yours, that we will have a slightly larger debt here and a little bit more in debt to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u29	Another point of fact is the Member of the Rozvoral of Justice, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. For the SPD movement club, I join the veto according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u31	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is prepared by Mr Kolovratník and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u32	First, to my colleague Lochman for his unfair assault on our president of the MP's club. No, Mr. Ambassador, it won't cost the taxpayers $800 million our fault. That's 800 million crowns you're trying to save somewhere and pull them out of taxpayers' pockets, those who order public transport, who want to do business here, who want to be competitive. [[applause in the left side of the Chamber]] And last of all, let's not go into circles, I'm going to quote one last quote here, and I think each of us is going to take a picture of what we're talking about here: "The progress of the state must be predictable for citizens and entrepreneurs. It is therefore necessary to adopt laws and their changes sufficiently in advance of their effectiveness." This government's programming statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Peštová is also enrolled and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also wanted to say something about the predictableness, and I'm saying it here - I already feel like a coffee maker - I say it all the time, an amendment to the Collection of Laws was made from the ODS. [[Fun in the right side of the meeting hall.]] A collection of laws is - should be - taboo for us. It's just that, according to that, the laws are adopted and taken effect. It clearly states that each law takes effect 1. 1. or 1. 7. This is another law, another law you're making here, from your workshop, and you're thinking, "It's taking on the day it's published." ježíšmarjá Christ, have you finally understood that there is no legislative emergency, there is no declared emergency, so we should adopt those laws as it is in the Collection of Laws? So if you give the law here, 1. 1. or 1. 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u35	I also thank Mr Vondráček for his time, and also Mr Vondráček is enrolled. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u36	Thank you, I'll be very brief, he's already told Martin before me. But that's a sentence that deserves to be carved in stone, like our veto is going to cost taxpayers CZK 800 million. And please, who's paying the taxes? So who's gonna pay the $800 million? Isn't that a bit of a contradiction, Mr Lochman, through the chair? That was awesome. I think it's unwanted humor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u37	Thank you, too, and Vice-President Havlíček is now registered with priority right. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u38	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, Ministers, Mr Lochman, through Madam Vice-President, we have just saved CZK 800 million to households and companies, and you know very well why we have spared them. And now that you're talking about the fastest-growing debt, when you open it, let's finish talking. In 2014, we took over - I was not there - but there was a debt of 44 percent. In 2019 it was 29 percent before covid. If you look at the debt between 2014 and 2019, it was plus or minus the same. Debt has fallen quite clearly. Yes, we increased debt in 2020 and 2021. Mr President, through Madam Vice-President, I do not know if you were watching well what the opposition said at the time, the current government guarantee: Give more, give little to entrepreneurs. We gave 50 percent of their expenses. After all, most of you here remember very well that you wanted us to give 75 percent, even some of you wanted to give 100 percent. If I had calculated how much we should have given entrepreneurs with regard to what the opposition then wanted, the deficit in those two years would have been somewhere about CZK 200 billion. Yes, I'm taking the absolute amount you asked for back then. And the fact that debt grew faster then in other countries - well, that's a simple mathematical puzzle. If we have a low debt and we put a billion in support, and someone has a high debt, and they give a billion, it's clear that the pace is faster for the country where the debt is lower. We do not need an economic school for this, Mr Member, through Madam President. But let's go back. It's just the way you said we were in debt here. And if I wanted to poke again, we'd see how you're doing, how you're saving beautifully, and how you're saying how easy it's gonna be, how you're gonna do everything - how you're in debt, how your debt looks in the first three or four months. But I don't want to bring this up at this point, I'm just responding to what you said, Mr. Ambassador, you, through Madam Vice-President. But let's recap here about a year ago with fuel prices. We were pushing the government to finally start doing something, but we were primarily pushing for something to happen in the energy field. Everyone in this country knows that you've totally overslept energy support, and we can think a hundred times about what, who, where, when he said, but also because you started preparing energy support, which at least was worth something sometime in September 2022, after the prices jumped in an incredible way, after you already knew it was unsustainable, something finally started to happen. [[17.40 hours]] We warned you about this during the first half of the year and, yes, we said at the same time: Fuel prices are going up, we have to do something here too, and yes, we have shown different countries what is going on. And then we said: If you don't do anything about energy prices, please do something about fuel prices, and we showed how much they cost. But first, we wanted the energy. If not energy, at least fuel. We didn't show: go the Hungarian way. We said, "Take a look in Hungary, among other things." In Hungary, they did, but the essence was not to do it like in Hungary, but to do it so that if you do not do anything else, of course give the price that will be bearable, not 29 crowns, as they gave Maďar, and somewhere around 36 crowns - please look for it when you laugh so nicely - and b) it is necessary to support those who sell fuel, which are obviously petrol stations. [[But?]] That means it wasn't some Hungarian road at all. But basically it's irrelevant, you're responsible, you wanted to rule, you went ahead with doing something, you can take advice from us, you don't have to take advice - as Minister Síkela says: We don't need your advice. All right, we're not gonna give it to you, but then you're fully responsible for your results. And as it turned out, you know very well. How energy prices grew, the way inflation developed. We can talk a hundred times here about what has had a greater effect on inflation and what has had a smaller effect, and I guarantee you that energy prices have had quite a major impact on inflation, you underestimated them and, among other things, we are among the worst in the fight against inflation. But back to fuel. Yes, that's when you introduced the package to do something. In the package you presented back then, three things I remember very well. First of all, biofuels - cancel. Let's just say, that was nothing but revenge for our chairman, just to show you that you're going to do some activity. We told you that it was no good and that it was no good because, according to European regulations, biofuels have to be mixed anyway. You were told by those involved. We laughed about it, the result was that this act meant nothing to the prize, not even a puppy. The second thing you did was the excise duty, and here I'm saying objectively, it helped a little bit. We discussed that there would be less than 2 crowns back then, which actually occurred around the crown of 50, 80 crowns and so on. Yes, this had a minor effect on the price of fuel. The third step you took was to abolish the road tax, it was indirectly linked to it, from my point of view it was not absolutely necessary and it was not such a demand, but we will not fight it if you reduce taxes, I am just saying that it cost the Ministry of Transport 4 to 5 billion crowns. I don't think it's really helped, but let's be fair - yes, it was a certain effort to at least lighten smaller and medium-sized companies. That was all, otherwise nothing was done with fuel prices, and in between we were fired energy prices to astronomical heights, and as it turned out with Minister Síkela, we all know how you pulled it at the Office of the Government, you quickly built a team there, and you got very angry with energy companies. There! Between what happened in the refineries that took place with the fuel price. Yes, you boasted by allowing the Družba pipeline, which flows about 50 percent of the oil, to flow about a year longer, which is basically good news, because at the moment there was no other way. But beware, the boasting was a little bragging about foreign feathers - who provided it here was then or not then, but the current Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who pushed for the flow of oil to Hungary, Slovakia, and thus to the Czech Republic. But what happened in the refinery? That's where it happened that the refinery used it, of course, and if you look at the refinery margin of our refinery, which, as we all know, is not in the hands of the state - which is not your fault or our fault, it occurred some 20 years ago - they have a tenfold higher refinery margin. Ten times higher! And do you know why, among other things, it's tenfold higher? Because they were taking advantage of Russian oil prices. But that's another thing, but all I'm saying is who's been making money on what and who's been paying for it. Yes, then you introduced a windfall tax - as the windfall tax went down, we all know big dreams, big goals, 100 billion crowns, what will eventually be there, I don't know - 40, 30, maybe even less, they'll just optimize it all, including the fact that it hit the refinery companies. And we're back to fuel prices. I just wanted to show who was actually making money on, who was paying and who was supporting who. We are in a situation where prices are going down, that is true, but at the same time we are in a situation where you have done practically nothing with the support of the business, with the support of households, but at the same time you promised that this measure will apply by the end of 2023. And we all know that this concerns, among other things, our truckers, that it concerns all those who are associated in ČESMAD, that it is, of course, about all those who have cars for diesel engines. And we all know very well that if we look at the excise tax, so the reduction, however you said it would be short-term, among other things, at least temporarily compared the environment with other countries, especially here in this case with Poland and Slovakia, not with Germany, there is another way. So that's why we insist on making it to the end of the year, not just arguing: today's price is coming down, so we'll take it from you again. You're certainly right about the price going down, but it has a correlation with what's been going on here all year, with what you promised, and who and how you could draw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u39	Thank you, too. I see no one else in the general debate. I'll look around again - yes, the Minister. Please. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u40	I will just formally propose a shortening of the time limit for committee discussions in two options. The first proposal is to shorten by 50 days to 10 days. If, by chance, the opposition has brought this to our attention, even if I think 10 days is enough for amendments, one hour is enough to do it with 9 days, then the second proposal is 30 to 30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u41	Thank you. Yes, Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u42	After a quick consultation with the SPD representative, I give the veto on behalf of two clubs of opposition YES and SPD to shorten the deadlines to 10 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u43	Thank you. Indeed, I am no longer registering anyone else in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. Since the veto fell on § 90, we will therefore continue to discuss first reading. The motion to return didn't come up, so we'll deal with... Excuse me? [[Minister Stanjura outside the microphone requests the possibility of a closing statement.]] Hang on, yes, the minister wants the final word, so please. Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u44	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the opposition did not hear my call, as I said, § 90 para. 2 allows you to design another term of effectiveness in 90, for example after 1. 1. 2024. I'll repeat what I said, and that's the weak point of your argument. Prices are much lower than any of us could count, including carriers, which is why we responded. We think at a time when we have some tax relief, that we also have to tell ourselves whether the tax relief is always selective, it is not for all taxpayers whether they fulfil the role for which they were elected. We believe that when we introduce it at the moment of the price of CZK 47 per litre, today it is less than 32 that there is no reason. I respect that someone else has an opinion, but you could have shown it through an amendment within the '90s or to vote against it, which I think is quite clear, if you had voted against, it is clear what your proposal for a reduction, a reduction in that deadline. So when someone complains that it wouldn't be to 1. 7... so just if it went through in the '90s, the change in the law would apply from 1. 7. It's funny when it swells up that it's 1. 7. It won't be because of the veto, and those who give it to the veto are still criticizing that it won't be at 1. 7. So let's look at the calendar, and let's figure out what the deadlines are -- if this thing goes through in the '90s today, the change goes back to 1. 7. And I'll get back to the argument. You're criticizing it's urgent, I understand. Why didn't you criticize it when we cut the taxes? Where was your performance, why is it so sudden, why is it a few days before the introduction? They weren't, they weren't! So be fair, it's either a general approach or it doesn't apply. [[Notes from the diaper.]] I'd like you not to yell at me. I wasn't yelling at you either. [[17.50 hours]] I'm asking you to show me in the log where you protested when we cut it down, it's fast, it's not standard, it's not to 1. 1, which is true because we've given it since 1. 10. Where were you to say in principle: Attention, attention, it can't be to 1. 10. maybe that's a good thing, but I quote you from the government's programming statement, only to 1. 1. or 1. Seven? By the way, that's what we put into the legislative framework, that's 1. 7. and 1. 1. In addition, according to the '90s, it would be to 1. 7. So find some fair arguments, and not imaginary, when I will simply convict you of your favorite - there is Patrik Nacher - a double approach. I haven't heard a word that this extension is being discussed in September with effect from 1. 10. Where were those guardians of legislative purity? They sat and kept quiet. When it suits them, they keep quiet, and when it suits them, here they come to quote from our government programming statement. I didn't convince you to be in favour. I was trying to show you that even in the 90th, in this particular case of law, the opposition has exactly the space, sufficient space to either be principled against voting against, or if it seems that July 1st is too early, and they want to have it later, or maybe 1. 1. 2029, so you did not make this amendment within the 90th. I understand. I'm not gonna cry, but I had to say it. Because if there are any arguments, even with such indignation, you have it written there for 1. 7. Well, thanks to your veto on 1. Seven won't be. It's fast, isn't it? Yes, it's fast. But when it went to 1. 10th extension, so you kept your mouth shut. It was good then and it's good now, I'm convinced of it. It can't be like I said... I know that many of you imagine it that way, or many of you, whether I'm not personal, many in the public debate say: Let's capitalize on profits, let's socialize losses, but we don't have that opinion. I really think that's an opinion that's wrong and that he's leading... And whether Mrs Schillerová is angry with me or not, the former Finance Minister at the speaking desk says that the Czech Republic is approaching the moment of insolvency, it is an outrage. Outrageous! I do not understand how you can even say that the Czech Republic is approaching insolvency. This has nothing to do with the political struggle, which threatens the interests of the Czech Republic as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u45	President Schillerová is now registered with priority rights. I am sorry, the general debate has been closed; factual remarks are no longer possible. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u46	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I also have something to say, Minister, after your fiery performance. Well, on short notice, you guys were cutting it short... For six months, we've been going to this speaker's desk here, and we've been calling on you to do something. That wasn't short notice. And even - now I didn't get to look so quickly - to see if 1. 10. it wasn't in a state of legislative emergency, then we wouldn't be talking about the data at all. I'm not quite sure about that right now. And, Minister, you're actually saying, prices are so low now, so low that we just have to raise them - so that's the point. You said that here several times today. And as for the budget, well... don't coach me here, Minister, because I saw the number that was sent to the budget committee last week, there were 250 billion. [[The Minister is responding from his desk.]] Of course, I understand that there's some cash flow going on in the middle of the month, that May cash flow is going to be worse than better. So please, I've asked you several times to say when you're going to make that budget real, when you're going to admit that there's never gonna be 50 billion of the State Environmental Fund coming into the state income budget from emission allowances, that you're never gonna get another one, so you said you're not gonna get 100 billion of the windfall tax, but maybe some 40, we'll see if it's even 40. How is it that you estimated windfall tax at banks with such a difference when the conditions for banks have not changed? I don't blame you for the energy tax. I understand that there were fluctuations in energy companies. But with the banks, the terms haven't changed, and you had an estimated 33 billion. You won't even pick a billion by the words of the largest banks that have spoken about it. How do you solve a hole in the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure? How do you add $15 billion to valorizing pensions in June? And so I can go on. My brother's at 150 billion. That's what I'm asking you, and I'm asking you forever. I'll never get answers. And I just started asking you today, you weren't in the O.R., how do you even want to make those cuts on the expense side? You say to the media, "Wait for the budget." Remember that you are obliged to answer to this Chamber of Deputies, you are obliged to answer our questions, and please do not refer me to Thursday's interpellation, where I have twice two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u47	Thank you. I'm not registering anyone else with an application. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. Once again, I'm gonna sing for my colleagues. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the Committee on Budgets being the guarantee committee? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 166 Members and Members signed in for 154, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u48	I thank the Chairman of the Economic Committee for instructing him off the microphone. I think the time limits, whatever they are, are simply to be kept by the House and the committees. And you see, and now, in fact, it's no opposition obstruction, 90 or 80 percent of the debate was about transport, whether on private carriers like ČESMAD or on public carriers, that is, the topic of the Economic Committee. Really politely, collegially, colleagues from the coalition, I ask that we order this also to the Economic Committee, where perhaps even outside the microphones we are able to deal with and discuss this issue in a matter of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u49	Thank you, too. Mr. Mr. Kolovratník suggested... Yes, I'm aware of the interest in the check-out. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Mr Kolohradík, Mr Kolovratník, has proposed an economic committee as another committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 32, registered 156 Members, for 73, against 52. The motion was not accepted. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? I don't see anyone like that. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days, and the first proposal was brought to light. I'm opening the vote on shortening the deadline, and I'm asking who's in favour? Voting number 33, 157 Members of Parliament signed in for 87, against 61. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've cut the negotiations 30 days to 30 days. I'm done discussing this press. I am opening another point, which is a government bill amending Act No. 77/1997 Coll., on State Enterprise, as amended, House Press 437, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2. Please note that it is proposed that we agree with the proposal at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. [[He's excused for the whole day.]] Yes, with authorization comes Minister Dvořák. Please. [[Mr Benda points out that at 6:00 p.m., there is a fixed point.]] Yes, yes. Since we have a fixed point at 6:00 p.m., I'm declaring a break until 6:00 p.m. so that we can begin this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-001-025.u50	Madam, honourable Members, I am opening another point, and this is
