ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 311/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government, the Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek will present the proposal and I will ask him to take the floor. And I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voices down, or to transfer your discussions to the lobby. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be as brief as possible. This is the law that we have discussed here, which I have presented - it is Law No. 258/2000, on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended. In principle, the main objective is the transposition of Directive 2020/2184 of the European Parliament of 2020 on the quality of water intended for human consumption. This is implemented into the Czech rule of law, the adoption ensures an increase in the quality of water supply safety, the assessment of subsequent risks throughout the chain and enables the focus to be on the relevant risks and the resulting protection measures, so that the water quality should be increased by this fall. [[12.30 hours]] Part of the accompanying amendment on water pipes and sewers, which regulates the rules on access to water infrastructure and the area of provision of information on supply of drinking water to customers. This part of the law was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture. The proposal contains the revocation of the authorisation of the final Decree No. 84/2001 Sb., on hygiene requirements for toys and products for children under three years of age, due to the elimination of duplication. The issue is referred to in the Decree and is already covered by other legislation, in particular Government Decree No. 86/2011, on technical requirements for toys. Finally, the proposal brings the Czech rule of law into line with the EU regulation. If it is not accepted, the Czech Republic will not fulfil its obligations arising from membership of the European Union. The Committee on Health recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u3	Thank you very much. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as the Parliamentary Press 311/1. I would ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Michaela Šebelová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear colleagues, dear ministers, the Health Committee, as a guarantee committee, addressed this draft law at its 19th meeting on 1 February and adopted the following resolution: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Health Josef Pavlovic, Ms Michaela Šebelová's report and after the debate of the Committee on Health, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health, and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts as amended, and Other Related Acts, House Press 311; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, Member Michaela Šebelová, to propose, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, additional necessary adaptations under Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Michaela Šebelová, to present the Committee's position to the Chamber of Deputies meeting" - which I have just done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u5	Thank you, Madame, for your report to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mrs Šebelová, Mrs Ochodnická, Mr Smetana and Mrs Adamová have so far signed up. I would like Mrs Šebelová to be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Together with the coalition colleagues on this press, we are presenting three amendments that I would like to introduce to you. Firstly, it is an amendment that we are proposing with our colleague Bohuslav Svoboda, Martina Ochodnická, Tom Philipp and Klára Kocmanová, and concerns the reduction of the administrative burden imposed on operators of the so-called priority areas, because this law imposes obligations on the assessment and management of the risk of the presence of lead in drinking water in the aggregate category known as those operating priority areas, and the premises of buildings in which schools and educational facilities are operated, then also which are intended to provide childcare services in the children's group, health establishments, catering services establishments, social services facilities and catering facilities. It is the case that many of these operations are operated in modern buildings where there is no risk of lead occurring in water, so we propose that persons operating priority areas with regard to the presence of lead in drinking water should not be obliged to supplement the operating rules with part of the assessment and management of internal water supply and connection risks if the resulting risk of lead presence is low and therefore no measures are necessary to remedy the situation. So at the beginning of all these priority areas, because health protection is important for us, they will have to do a simple analysis, but if they evaluate the risk as low, they will not have to do other tasks afterwards. Furthermore, we propose simplification of the administrative procedure in the context of the processing, assessment and risk management of internal water supply for bodies which have not yet had an obligation to submit operational rules where these bodies will only be informed by the competent public health authority and will not therefore be exposed to a complex approval process of the operating orders. This amendment further removes the non-systematic concept of utility water, which is a legislative technical error, and also proposes a change of effectiveness given that the original proposed effective date has already passed. I would also like to point out that, in the event of the need to take measures to reduce the impact of lead on drinking water, the necessary corrective measures will have to be taken by the school itself, not by the owner of the building. The measure can be a whole range from regime measures that only implement the rules on the use of taps, such as draining of water with a higher lead concentration, through the replacement of pipes, which the owner will do if he is willing to do, but if not, then we have other options where provision of alternative drinking water sources such as water dispensers, water packaged and so on can be ordered. The bill, of course, also addresses sanctions. Here I merely state that the regional sanitation station, when assessing the suitability of the measures applied, always takes into account the situation of, for example, the school or another operator and local conditions, including the assessment of, for example, the unwillingness of the owner of the building to replace the water pipes. Therefore, the continuing existence of excessive lead water pipes will not be a reason to ban the operation of a school in a given building, as there are alternative means of ensuring that pupils, students, employees and others have access to safe drinking water, such as already mentioned water dispensers, bottled water and so on. We then propose a second amendment to our fellow Members, in the system recorded as Amendment 1907, which concerns new recycling technologies and transposes the European Union's regulation. In order to enforce the rules resulting from the regulation, we propose an extension of the competence of county health stations to assess new recycling technologies, producing materials and articles from recycled plastics. The aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human health in increasing recycled content in food packaging and similar materials, as well as in the light of ongoing developments and innovations. And then we put forward the third amendment, marked in the system as Amendment 1910, with colleagues Ivan Bartoš, Bohuslav Svoboda, Martina Ochodnickáý and Tom Philipp. This amendment provides for the obligation of county health stations to inform the Commission of the initiation of an application for authorisation of the operation of the source of excessive noise or vibration of the municipal authorities concerned, i.e. the exemption procedure from noise limits will be notified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u7	Thank you, Madame. The next one for the debate is Mrs Ochodnická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, Madam Secretary, I would like to make an amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on Public Health Protection. The amendment is recorded in the system under number 1916 and is presented together with Mrs Michaela Šebelová, Tom Philipp, Zdeňka Němečková Crkvenjaš, Klára Kocmanová and Professor Věra Adámková. Our amendment addresses health cards, known to the general public as so-called food cards, which are mandatory for all those who work in the food industry. As part of the debyrocratisation of the state, we propose to abolish the health certificate as evidence of the health status of the person carrying out the activities of epidemiologically serious. At present, the health certificate may be issued to the applicant for an indefinite period of time and with unlimited validity. Thus, if someone is given a health certificate, for example, in connection with the planned short-term work of refilling goods, spinning ice cream and the like, this same food licence can be used after several years, for a completely different activity, such as the processing of raw meat. The issue of health certificates shall be entrusted to practitioners and shall be left to their discretion as to whether or not they issue a medical certificate. The tour carried out for this purpose does not replace the entry into employment, and therefore, for example, a sample of the morning urine or a complex physical examination is not required. The public are certainly not aware of cases where medical certificates are issued almost without any more thorough examination, almost after a glimpse of the medical documentation and a brief assessment of the health status of the person concerned only on the basis of his current appearance. On the basis of the public's response, it can be assumed that such cases are not unique. I graduated from a hotel school myself, and I worked in gastronomy for years. So far, I've got this food card hidden in my drawer. It should be valid. It doesn't say anything about my current medical condition, yet I can work in gastronomy without any problems. Therefore, employers will continue to bear responsibility according to our proposal. [[12.40 hours]] It must be added that the proposed cancellation was also approved by a professional group of practitioners... The Practicing Doctors Association, I'm sorry. Without that, the employer can't verify the infectivity and it's completely odd to think that if we send someone for a tour, it'll be resolved. It really needs to be said that if we have a three-year-old I.D., it doesn't say anything about how we feel today and whether we are a threat or a threat to the food industry for consumers. For these reasons, we propose to abolish the legislation on health certificates as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr Smetana will continue the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I will make amendments to which I will later sign up in a detailed debate. The submitted government bill sets out, inter alia, a range of information for which the Ministry of Health will provide the preparation of data sets for reporting to the European Commission, the European Environment Agency and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. In order to complete the transposition, it is necessary, in accordance with the Water Quality Directive intended for human use, to extend this heading to information on the assessment and risk management of a part of the river basin, related to the water collection site under the new Water Management Plans and Flood Risk Management Plans, which will take effect on 1. 3. 2023. In the context of the above, it is also necessary to lay down the obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture to provide the Ministry of Health with the information necessary to fulfil the new reporting obligations and to supplement the transitional provisions in the draft law. The second amendment is also of a technical nature and leads to the fulfilment of the Czech Republic's transposition obligations by 23 July 2023. On the basis of the tobacco directive, it is currently stipulated by the Food Act that tobacco products other than cigarettes and tobacco for the packing of cigarettes are exempt from the prohibition of characteristic flavour and the prohibition of flavouring content and are also exempt from the obligation to bear certain warnings for consumers. Given that the volume of sales of heated tobacco products exempted from the abovementioned prohibitions and obligations has increased in the European Union beyond a specified limit, the European Commission has adopted an amendment to the Act - Commission Directive - Delegated Directive 2022/200 of 29 July 2022 amending Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the abolition of certain derogations relating to heated tobacco products. In accordance with the definition of the Directive, which is inserted by the amendment into the Food and Tobacco Products Act, a tobacco product which is heated in such a way as to produce emissions containing nicotine and other chemicals which are then inhaled by the user and which, in relation to its properties, is a smokeless tobacco product or a tobacco product intended for smoking. Thus, Directive 2022/2100 extends the prohibition of the content of characteristic flavours and flavourings to heated tobacco products and, at the same time, eliminates certain warnings for consumers in the event of tobacco products intended for smoking. The Directive provides for the date of 23 July 2023 for incorporation into national legislation with the effect of the national regulation from 23 October 2023 and does not allow for any transitional period for sale after 23 October 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u11	Thank you, Mr Member, and now the last one entered into the general debate, namely Mrs Adámková, will come forward. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words about the importance of the quality of drinking water from a health point of view, which then translates into a health-social issue. Several basic parameters need to be realized. First of all, in large cities, most of the water is in private hands, not ours, so, of course, other organizations are involved in the quality of drinking water. And as we have mentioned here twice, unfortunately also those often poor water routes, i.e. pipes, remain in the property of cities or municipalities and they are sometimes in a pitiful state, so focusing on the quality of drinking water is more than necessary in this case, we must realise that even in small towns. And so they are for these water pipes, which are so-called public water, but of course the water is there from some source, linked to kindergarten, elementary schools, health center and, of course, a number of households, and in this case it is necessary to say that the water can, unfortunately, also make health worse. Another thing that happens, and you know it eventually, is that you have water in a number of accommodations, where it warns you not to brush your teeth with it. It is because they cannot guarantee the quality of drinking water so that it does not make health worse. So, of course, that's a thing that's very necessary, and take it into account. As for the other thing that few are aware of, more or less, how important this drinking water treatment is, it includes things that are in contact with drinking water. You know that when there are vegetables, it washes in drinking water and so on - I have to say that we have a number of public catering establishments where we have to ensure the quality of drinking water again, so it really doesn't go without it and we really need to pay attention to it. As far as the other thing I would like to point out is that very rarely even those who work with drinking water in the sense that they process other things realize that water, whether cold or warm, drinking, must not contain microorganisms, parasites, not even in concentration, nor in numbers that threaten public health. So once again we come to the fact that control is absolutely necessary. And we have to realize that we have two other things, and that's either supply from some source or individual source. For individual resources, which are usually wells, it is nowadays the minimum population in the territory of our Republic, but there is once again an irreplaceable place of sanitary service, because it has been forgotten in recent years, but I remember very well as a child that there were mandatory checks on the quality of drinking water, and if the water was of course bad, it was either not possible to draw from it, or it had to be used only after overcooked, or very often different tablets were added to the water. I don't want to say names here so it's not that I want to prefer something, because some of them aren't even on the market anymore, some of them are. The point is that even the owner, please, who continues to provide the water, must realize that he is bound by some obligations, which then fall within those who continue to work with the water. The point is that it either draws more than 10 ccs of water or provides water to more than 50 inhabitants. He remembers the decree, I think it's certainly a good thing, and we're not going to do any more restrictive rules or slowing down. As far as hygiene limits are concerned, the hygiene limit must, of course, be examined and monitored at both 22 degrees Celsius and 36 degrees Celsius. There are clearly given numbers of colonies that may contain the water. So you can see that it's not just someone looking at the water and thinking, "I like it or don't like it, and I'm gonna let it or not. It's a strict and clear analysis. What we need to follow further in the water, please nicely, are minerals - colleagues have already talked about it in part, so I will not read them here again, it would be unnecessary - but also nitrates. Very often, especially in the villages, we get to the fact that of course water either does not have a good divorce anymore and leaks things that are on the surface, which, of course, can be a danger again, and I warn again that it happened a little bit now twice in the last year and it was in the type of free kindergarten where they are located in nature and it is not fully respected. But I'm sure that's a different chapter. We're not discussing that right now. There's ammonia, there's chlorine, lead already mentioned by a colleague here, so I'm not going to mention it again, but there's also pH of water, because it's also monitored, manganese, but there's also a smell, because it can happen that water where we think ions are okay, it just has some odor that's not acceptable for consumption, so even that's where the hygienist has to evaluate it. [[12.50 hours]] Then there is another thing that she would like to say is very important, and these are pesticides. You know very well that without fertilization it would be significantly reduced, I warn you, significantly, but we just can't do without it. For one thing, they're either stable products and the like, but we're going to have nitrate and other ingredients, or of course they're artificial pesticides. On that occasion, I would remember what's not happening today, and we still find it in the soil, in the water - that's the good old DDT, which I hope we don't have any further. Just for younger colleagues, because sometimes the nostalgia and joy on the Czech product is great, it is originally Czech provenience. It's dichlordiphenyltrietane, a very simple compound. But you know that we used to conquer the world, so unfortunately it remained in the soil for a very long time, it was getting into the groundwater. It was even thoughtful, there was such a theory that maybe it was also caused by the loss of rabbits in the Czech countries. If that's true or not, I can't quite confirm. So we can see from this that things that may not be related to each other can eventually have a significant effect on the chain, and it's somewhere else entirely. We must also say that according to all hygiene analyses and results made between 2004 and 2012, the water used was significantly improved. But we must also say that over the ten years - I am rounding up a bit - there has been a significant deterioration in the quality of the water line. So once again it is necessary to realize that the path of water is not always in the hands of the community or the city, so that we have to work with it. Another thing that is important to realize what we need to do for water treatment to be good - we have about 39 percent of drinking water from underground, 38 surface and 23 mixed. This may seem to be nothing, but it is because the treatment of groundwater is three times more economically than the modification of surface water - an underground well against the river, very capidically said. And otherwise I have to say for us as health professionals to some extent a gratifying thing - that is, almost 95 percent of our population is already connected to some public series, which can therefore be a water supply in the city, but you also know that the villages were doing their water lines, or it is no longer drawing from any well that stood next to some waste place, which was obviously not good. On that occasion, I want to say that unfortunately poor water can fundamentally endanger our health. Not only by having digestive problems, but unfortunately, she may have fetuses in her, which a person who is somehow not completely immunely okay may no longer be able to cope with, so we also know the situation very well. We've already talked about this, it's the presence of legionella in the water. So the water, please nicely, has to be watched, I'm glad that tightening up is not only in the moment when I take the tap, but it has to be tracked along the way, because unfortunately, especially in those parts of the tap where there is no permanent or proper collection, it can be contaminated with legionel very quickly, which unfortunately also had fatal consequences. On that occasion, I would like to mention - and here I will, of course, continue to appeal to the Minister, because it is not clear to me - this is, of course, part of the great gesture of hygiene workers. This means, of course, regional sanitation services here have a lot of work to do, they can control it, but if we really want to reduce the number of workers and we want to improve the quality of drinking water, then the equation doesn't work out. So, in this regard, we will definitely want answers in a significant way with regard to hygienists. So here I'd just like to say that we can - and it's not happening in the hygiene - so again, I'm asking for some feedback until next time. We have a public health assistant field of study, these are people who belong exactly to this injury, who can exactly work in the field, can do a great job there and then, of course, prepare the work in an important way. I would also like to say one more thing. This is that Minister Heger - just to lighten things up - even when he was a minister, he said that he wanted - and that certainly the time will be and that it is - to make a non-alcoholic beverage the cheapest drink in restaurants. Then I must assure you that water is on average more expensive than beer. I'm sure you have some establishments where you don't, but otherwise you do. So these people very often order the so-called tap, because they only want to make tap water that's cheaper than beer. Well, I hope everywhere, but I can't guarantee it. That is why it is so important that all these establishments have quality drinking water, because they provide it to their customers. There, if there was a problem, we have an epidemic very quickly, which we would not like, because perhaps even the local infectious ward couldn't handle. About 15 years ago, I helped to serve in the infectious department, and one part of our representation - I will not say in what sport, because whoever remembers it knows, and otherwise we will not do it, take it as an event from life, from filming - has gotten into a similar situation when they did not have a very good source. Of course, it destroyed the entire league for a few days. So I would very much hate to have these situations again. I believe that this is very necessary. As far as health certificates are concerned, as my colleague Ochodnická said very well and in detail, it is true that we currently have health cards in absolute out of control. We don't know anything about them, how they are and where they are. First of all, some of them are so historical that even the owner can't remember when he was at a checkpoint. Just for those younger colleagues, I want to say that getting a medical license at the time of my youth - which, from your point of view, is longer than you are in the world, but believe me, we lived back then - it really meant getting out at the health station. It was preceded by classic swabs, X-rays, heart, lungs and so on. Then the situation has eased, that it is no longer necessary and so on, that everyone is so reliable and alone that they will simply be examined. It is clear to you that the opposite has become true, i.e. at present - and it has struck me very hard, so I am very glad that we are dealing with this - it is about two years ago, we have thus revealed a person who had open tuberculosis and was going to get on as a chef. He had a valid medical certificate. So the more reason it's not possible to give them away. It is not possible to give them for an indefinite period. Of course, we all wish to be young, healthy, beautiful, but the reality is completely different. So I'm sure we'll have to process the release for some time, let's just say, the health benefits. I don't want to say another name yet, but let's call it a new medical license, even if it's not a medical license. Because there are many of those seductions on the way to endanger our health. We must eliminate this - if we can, of course - as much as possible as possible in the preventive examination. At present, we may not be so threatened by certain diseases that were 40 years ago, but we have new ones, because of course we are not completely healthy. There's hepatitis B both. I'm warning you, it may be inaparable, so this person doesn't need to know. But we also have hepatitis C, and we have other diseases, and I'm not going to name them all here, of course, it's not a lecture from these diseases, neither portable nor infectious. I just want to say that it's very good that the hygienists will have these new things again. Of course, the quality of drinking water, I would say, is never well controlled enough and we are still not completely strict yet. But I think it will help eliminate possible pathogens in the water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u13	Thank you, Madame. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mr Kobza. Ambassador, please, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to follow up on the doctor, because water has been my field for years. I can't stop myself from seeing certain crossings, because the water is a matter not only for the Ministry of Health, but also for the Ministry of Agriculture, and above all for the Ministry of Environment, actually for the entire length of use from resources to discharge of waste from the cleaners. However, I would like to say one more thing that has not been mentioned here - that is, that the entire water network and structure actually belong to the critical infrastructure category and, as such, today's tense time is a soft target. This means that if anyone wants to poison half of Prague, they just need a few trucks of noise from the mines where arsenicpyrites occur, the arsenic is released into the water quite quickly and no one will catch it in any cleaner. I raised this question a year and a half ago or two years ago, when it was a draft constitutional law for water protection, that the infrastructure actually had to be protected for a whole length. This protection should be responsible both for self-government but also for the state itself, and it should have a structure that actually works, because we are talking about one of the basic things for living in this country, and we certainly cannot underestimate that. [[13.00 hours]] So I would like to call on these three ministries to join forces as far as possible and put together a system that will actually be functionally protecting this water and this water infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Before we go back to the general debate, one apology. Mr Bašta Jaroslav apologizes from 11.30 pm for health reasons. We are going back to a debate which, however, no one is yet logged in. I'm asking if anybody from around here is applying for a general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. And I ask, is there an interest in the final words at this point in time by the plaintiff or rapporteur? It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Šebelová has applied for the floor. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby declare my three amendments, which I have tabled together with my coalition colleagues, which I have explained in detail in the general debate and which are registered in the system under number 1906, this amendment concerns a reduction of administrative complexity for persons operating priority areas, namely schools and other organisations, and an amendment under number 1907, concerning recycled materials, and an amendment under number 1910, concerning the obligations of regional health authorities to report exemptions from noise management to local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u17	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Ochodnická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like, in a detailed debate, to sign up for the amendment referred to under number 1916, which I, together with Mrs Michaela Šebelová, Tom Philipp, Zdeňka Němečková Crkvenjaš, Klára Kocmanová and Professor Věra Adámková, present in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u19	Yes, thank you, and the last one entered into the detailed debate is Mr Smetana.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendments that are listed under 1913 in the system, an amendment relating to reporting obligations for the Ministry of Agriculture, and the second amendment is made in the system under 1914, which relates to heated tobacco products.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-004-003.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words at this point? It's not like that. By this we have exhausted the second reading of this press and I conclude the second reading of this proposal and item 3. The next item on the agenda is the item
