ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u1	111. Government bill amending Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in the context of armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws /house print 374/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka. Minister, please take the floor. And I'm going to ask you, colleagues, if you want to speak, to move to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u2	Thank you, good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, as we are at second reading and the first reading this week was on Tuesday, where I explained in my opening speech the reason for presenting this bill, workingly called Lex Ukraine V, which is a change of several laws so that we can respond to the situation of aid and support to incoming refugees from Ukraine, when we are taking steps to make it more effective, in a way and to tighten up the level of social support that we are providing to these people, at the same time setting more transparent rules, for example, to control the income of these people in the Czech Republic precisely when granting this form of support, these things were said here on Tuesday in quite detail. The Social Committee also took place on Wednesday. So I will not continue to speak with the opening word, I am ready to respond then to those who are enrolled in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as the House Press 374/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jiří Navrátil, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u4	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Social Policy Committee, as a guarantee committee, discussed the draft law on 8 February within a short period of two days and adopted Resolution No 86, which was delivered to you as a press of 374/1 on 8 February. The Committee unanimously recommends approving the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies. No amendments have been tabled. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for your intelligence report. I am now opening a general debate to which Members have come forward in this order: Mrs Pastuchová will be the first to speak. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I spoke here briefly at the first reading. In the meantime, there was a Committee on Social Policy, where we have spent a long time with this House's press, and we have had a lot of questions. I have to say, and I thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for sending us the documents we requested yesterday, and they also sent us model examples of the calculation of the humanitarian benefit. What I think was most discussed on this committee or one of the main topics was the examination of the assets of Ukrainian refugees, where it was not specified whether this property would be monitored in Ukraine, which I think is quite impossible, and therefore I know from the President, through you, the Committee on Social Policy, that it was perhaps - I did not read it, I apologize - a draft amendment which actually narrows it down to the Czech Republic. So I think it's okay, and I'm glad it's also possible to facilitate the work of those who should be finding out. We also asked - and I am quite, or I am sorry that the Minister of Finance is not here, because Minister Jurečka certainly does not know by your means, or maybe he already knows - there was a question on the Committee on Social Policy that when the first rules for identifying and providing assistance to refugees from Ukraine began to be prepared, information was published that the costs incurred by the State would be partly paid by the European Union. Since then, aid has been provided, but we have not yet heard about the European Union's financial contribution. That is why we asked about this on 8 December, but the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not know about any negotiations on this support. We were just referred to the Ministry of Finance, and I thought the Minister would be here, or I didn't know, so I wanted to ask him if and with what outcome the negotiations were or are taking place. Definitely for myself and I think for all of us, I am glad that we are providing assistance to Ukrainian refugees and, of course, we will agree with the Lex Ukraine VI. [[correct V]] But even when we got those model examples of the calculation of the humanitarian benefit yesterday, it's nice that it's adjusted according to the Ministry of Finance's comments, that's good. But it's much simpler than the dosages in quotation marks for our people, and therefore more accessible. [[12.50 hours]] By all having uniform housing costs under the government's regulation, someone will earn and someone will lose, or for someone, the government's regulation will put extra costs on the line and not enough for someone. In fact, at the time of the adoption of this law, I do not know how much the government is setting them. That's government policy, I don't know. What will be the basis for this? Especially at this time when it's turbulent, because energy costs are falling, but unevenly, and no one knows for how long. I know there's nothing you can do about it, but it's just that, and I had to say that. I'm sure my colleagues here will be talking about the paragraph that we mentioned, and that's canceling some points on the logos. Representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Minister who tried to explain this were present, but my fellow Member, Mrs Mádlová, will talk about this, through you, which will certainly justify, I think, the amendment that she will put into the system. I am still afraid that the Office of Labour and the Czech Social Security Administration will grow administrative work with all these new forms. We've been assured that we haven't. I keep saying there's no digitalization, but you're kissing our mouths again, that we've been there for eight years, and we haven't done anything for it either. But I think like you, you're making excuses now that you're dealing with other things, we could do the same thing. We had covid, you have a war in Ukraine, so I'm not going back to that. There will also be a lot of talk, or we have also spoken to the Social Policy Committee on solidarity household contributions. Because it's been explained to me several times, but actually, solidarity households would get funding if that person of ours is going to share the household with them, which is probably out of control, because if I have my apartment written on me, I can't imagine anyone going there because there's not enough employees to check if I'm really there or not. I do not know whether all Members or only Members of the Committee on Social Policy have these model examples of the calculation of the humanitarian benefit. It's quite an interesting reading, but I'm still saying that we don't know what the government's order will be. You decide that, and we don't really know what it's gonna be like. Because it's almost one o'clock, and I'm sure a lot of my colleagues and colleagues are asking me to do it, so I'm gonna cut it short and give them an opportunity to tell their contributions so we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u7	Thank you, Madame. Next in line is Mrs Mádlová. Before arriving at the speaker's counter, I will make one apology: Mr Kohoutek has apologized to Mr Kohoutek Tomáš since 12.45 without giving any reason. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. In fact, I would like to return to part three, which I mentioned on Tuesday. It concerns clinical logos. Unfortunately, on Tuesday, although the Minister of Health was here, the answers to my questions or questions from my colleagues regarding clinical logos did not fall. I also had an interpellation on the subject. Yesterday, Minister Válek was not present. So I am opening it today, because I consider this to be a very fundamental and important topic that should be developed here. Unfortunately, I must say it is a great pity that you did not allow this to be discussed on the Health Committee because that is where this law belongs. The change is actually being inserted into a law that doesn't have anything to do with it. It's an adhesive, it's an abuse of this law. You guys have stickers this week at all. However, this is a really big problem because you are interfering with the health care system, and I consider this to be a major problem. But the law, which is actually inserted there in such a way that it is quite unfairly, is a big law that concerns about 40 - I think there are more than 40 - nonmedical health professions. For these professions, it is actually established that this is a professional capacity, that is, when the person can pursue the medical profession. This is a specialist qualification, it is a recognition of qualifications within EU countries, outside EU countries. It is even about interrupting medical practice, so under what conditions this person can return to that medical profession again. They really are regulated professions, and let's be happy that we have a qualifying level set, because from this qualification level, the whole health-care quality system is set. You can have super-high-tech, but if you don't have trained people there, qualified people with appropriate specializations, those technologies won't do you any good. You need people who don't just run the right diagnostics, differential diagnostics, that they choose the right method, the means to do it, the equipment, then you use the device. But you need that paramedic to monitor the success of the treatment method used, if there are no complications. That's what Law 96 is about, too, because it sets the bar for you. Suddenly, a big law like this will appear here as an adhesive to the law of lex Ukraine without discussing in a professional field, across the Chamber of Deputies. Dear colleagues, this concerns all of us. We're all potential patients. None of us know when we're gonna need a health-care logoped, a clinical logopedo that has specialized competence because it works in medical facilities and cares for patients with relatively serious diseases. He's a guy who's part of a multidisciplinary team, working with neurosurgeons, phoneists, neurologists. He's a person who has a significant place in various degenerative diseases, brain surgery, brain tumors, severe brain injuries, and so on, after strokes. I don't know if you're sure you'll ever need that person. I wish you luck, but I'm afraid none of us have the confidence in this room, not at all. I already really needed a clinical speech in a medical facility after a fairly serious neurological disease in my loved one. I believe there are many of you who already needed the clinical logo, either with your child or with close adults. [[13.00 hours]] And suddenly, in this law, with which we have absolutely no problem supporting refugees from Ukraine affected by war, a law will appear that interferes with the professional and specialised competence of a non-medical health worker. It's incredible, and I'll repeat again that it's dishonest on the part of Minister Válek, and I don't understand how he couldn't explain it. How is it possible that the intervention into specialised competence is discussed on the Social Committee? How come he's not waking up on the Health Committee? How come he's not here on interpellation? How come he didn't answer on Tuesday, even though he was here? The problem is that it can really affect the quality of the Czech health system. It's a question of what's in it. I do not know how much the Minister would like it if he discovered an adhesive - for example, in the law on the deep storage of radioactive waste, there would suddenly be an adhesive to Act 95 on the professional and specialised competence of the doctor that the specialized competence of the field of radiology and imaging methods will be abolished for 54 months. I'm stating this on purpose because Professor Válek is a radiologist. Without any further explanation! No follow-up implementing regulations! Without government regulations, where specialized competence is regulated! That's not possible. And my dear colleagues and Minister, the Association of Clinical Logoedists does not agree with this. This is probably an important message, they have great reservations about it, because it has not been properly discussed. There was only one meeting at the Ministry of Health on January 17 at 11 a.m. and on February 6 we discussed it here in the House. So where's the discussion on the field of expertise? What opportunity did the Association of Clinical Logopedos have to make a proper statement about this and prepare some other proposals. If it's just a formal matter that we're shutting down a three-year professional capacity, then I'd expect the justification to be what's next. So what's step B? Is it completely canceled, or is it getting shorter, or is it something else? Again, we do not have a certain impact on the health care system, on the standard set at the same time, and I consider this to be a really big problem. It is a great pity that you did not allow this to be discussed across the House and in the Health Committee, because the intentions - perhaps there is something about them. But if the Association of Clinical Logoedists fundamentally disagrees with this, I guess that's the problem. When I take a report from the Ministry of Health, it is not even verified, there is no statement from the other party, and today we know that they did not agree to completely cancel accredited courses at universities, they only wanted additions to use other institutions such as IPVZ. Well, that makes sense, but no one has discussed it, and we don't know if that's step B. And we don't really know if the Department of Health will let them or not. It is not possible to do this to force, without discussion and without the consent of a professional society. Again, we need to emphasise that we need clinical logos in the field. I'd like to focus more on the specific things that the Ministry of Health says. You're a little innocent here, Minister, because it's not your resort, and I don't think you can expect to comment on that, I understand. However, Minister Válek should certainly be sitting here to attend to this part of the sticker. The point is, therefore, that the Ministry of Health in this big law, which was hard born after 2000 - I was at its birth, I know how painful it was before everyone agreed before they all set the required quality of care. Yeah, those laws were going through some updates, but why is it putting it as an sticker here, such a flagrant law? The fact that the Ministry is operating on the record, I have already said that because it doesn't really agree with time at all, it is not verified and it isn't there, nor is it what communicated the leadership of the Association of Clinical Logopedists, that they didn't want to cancel it specifically, but that they just wanted to supplement it. The other thing is that the specialised competence of three years of completion of the test is abolished. That's canceled. What's the reason? Now, if I follow the reasoning, it is that the amendment proposal also reflects the fact that the total influx of other incoming persons is not significantly predictable in the coming period, that further persons will continue to come to the Czech Republic, I assume that this concerns Ukrainian citizens, who will subsequently need support through speech therapy. We're talking about the lack of doctors, we're talking about the fact that they're filled with ambulances, that there's a long waiting period. Then why is there suddenly only a sticker on clinical logos? Will the changes therefore concern other health professions? Who's next? So what's it gonna be like if we don't have a doctor, we don't have sisters? Can we expect any more stickers in other laws? So why the Lex Ukraine? I guess that's why that is. Because Ukrainian child or any other foreigner, but here it is based on Ukrainian children, does not speak Czech, then needs teaching, and not health care, which provides clinical logoped because it has its expertise, on the basis of which it shows health insurance performance. It is argued that the number of foreigners-children in kindergartens and primary schools is growing. The percentages aren't dizzying, but it's mostly kindergarten and elementary school. There's nothing in this material about paediatric patients who need specialized clinical speech therapy. So why are we talking about kindergartens and schools, pupils, when we're canceling specialized medical skills, clinical logos? The clinical logopede is in the department of health care, the logopede operating in education is in the school law. And, Minister, if I'm not mistaken, you are the Minister of Health, Minister of Válek absent. You should mainly care about patients, and of course it doesn't matter if they are Czech patients or Ukrainian patients, but about patients. You also write: "The aim of the proposal is to adopt follow-up legislation taking into account the current development of demand for health services. The available capacity of speechps in health care and clinical logos in health care, which have deepened as a result of new insured persons, persons from Ukraine who have been granted temporary protection, and the need to ensure the availability and extension of logopedic care specifically for minors" - minors, I stress this, or not patients, but children in kindergartens and primary schools where a speechpedic assistant or special teacher is active. And then you say, "and patients with communication problems." So we're still spinning around kids in kindergarten and primary schools. [[13.10 hours]] You also argue as an argument: "The number of children with impaired communication skills is growing in the context of the Ukrainian crisis. Children with a different mother tongue are an increasingly numerous group." Well, that's obvious when they come from Ukraine, but for that, we need a health-care logo? In order to do this, do we need to interrupt the specialised competence of a clinical speech that is intended for patients? It doesn't make any sense to me, and it doesn't make any sense to my medical colleagues. Doesn't it make sense for children, Ukrainian children, who logically can't speak Czech, to break specialized competence over a period of three years at the logopedo in health care? And beware, I repeat, that we do not know the impact on the quality of health care if we cancel this specialized competence, notabene without the consent of the Association of Clinical Logoppies. To help with the mother tongue to learn a different language, and given that these are children from kindergarten and primary schools, they are designed to do so by speechmakers in education. Yes, there are discussions going on here, there have been discussions about whether there will be a new profession - school logoped. That's not what I'm gonna say here, or what I want to say, which may be the subject of another discussion, or whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, but I'm dealing primarily with clinical logos. And I'm really, really unpleasantly surprised that - even among you, government MPs, they're health professionals, you're used to working in multidisciplinary teams, and without that health care will never work, it's always a team of doctors and non-medical professionals. And yet you didn't agree to discuss it with the Health Committee. After all, you are also interested in the quality of health care in the Czech Republic, the standard set. So what's this sticker doing here? Why isn't it properly discussed? You also write: "The reason for submitting an amendment to the provisions of Section 23 of Law No. 96 on non-medical health professions, as amended, which regulate the conditions for obtaining professional qualifications for the pursuit of the profession of speech in the health sector and the conditions for obtaining specialised competence for the pursuit of the profession of clinical speech, is to take measures to improve the situation of lack of professionally qualified health professionals to provide speech therapy while increasing the number of persons, children with communication difficulties, children with a different mother tongue.' Here we go again. It still revolves with Ukrainian children, who logically cannot speak Czech, and therefore we cancel the specialized competence of clinical logopeda for three years without knowing whether it will be further modified in any way. Or is there any other intention? I find it incredible, really unbelievable. So the clinical logoped is supposed to teach the Czech language, and we're gonna cancel his specialized qualifications? I would like Minister Válek to explain how it is, how it is related. That's completely contradictory. You are also saying that "there will be a strengthening of the staff capacities of logopers in health care or clinical logos and an improvement in the availability of speech services, especially in situations where people, patients, children and pupils with speech problems are constantly increasing in connection with the conflict in Ukraine. The increasingly numerous group are children with a different mother tongue, who need the right pronunciation to understand and adopt." So we're back in class. What does specialized medical competence have to do with this? And by abolishing the specialized qualifications in health care for three years, I'm suddenly taking a bunch of clinical logos to teach the Czech language to schools? Or what it is? It doesn't have a head or a heel. That is indeed a misguided reasoning. I wonder what's behind it. I believe we'll know soon enough. I must add, however, that the management of the Association of Clinical Logopedoes reports that there are about 1,100 clinical logopedos in total, testing about 60 to 70 logopedos each year, and it cannot be said that it would be a completely catastrophic, flat deficiency in all parts of the Czech Republic. Yes, locally, yes, but the question is, is the condition so critical that we have to disrupt the specialized competence of three years to speed things up? Maybe we'll speed things up, maybe we'll make it a 40-hour course, specializing in patients. Again, the health problems that they are involved in are, for example, brain tumors, brain surgery, severe brain injuries, various civilization diseases, degenerative diseases, strokes and the like, a whole series of them, it requires really great knowledge, not only from anatomy, physiology, but also from the nature of the disease, from appropriate methods, they must cooperate with doctors, with nurses who take care of these patients 24 hours a day. From this, the text, from which the reasoning, does not show at all how the capacities will increase. How? Because you're not gonna get those clinical logos in one month because you're gonna be disqualified from your specialized competence over a period of three years. But maybe it will cause you to poison them, and they won't want to work in the profession at all. How many are now in the test preparation? How is it possible that the Ministry is submitting any investigations in the explanatory memorandum? We're working on some data. I mean, we have a statistical office, but the numbers of clinical logos are being monitored. After all, the number of patients with certain diagnoses is monitored. It's all coming out. And the D.O.D.'s here on some kind of investigation. And recently we're talking about what everything needs to be monitored, what data we need. I think I've justified enough why this sticker isn't supposed to be in the law at all. It's really very wrong. It's from Minister Válek's side of a blow below the belt, it's without the consent of the Association of Clinical Logoedists. My colleagues and I will submit an amendment to this Act No. 66/2022 when we propose to take Part Three, Art. 4 canceled and other parts and articles are numbered. Justification: "The provisions which the amendment deletes extend the conditions for the implementation of accredited qualification courses for logos outside universities. However, this adjustment may result in a negative effect in the form of a reduction in the standard of performance of the profession concerned, as the implementation of accredited qualification courses by eruded entities aims to ensure a high degree of expertise and professional qualifications of speechmakers. Dislodgement in this respect logically carries a reduction in the entitlement to the profession and the quality of health care may be compromised. Moreover, the deleted part of the bill relates to the remaining material of the amendment only very freely and could therefore be rightly perceived as a so-called label, prohibited by the Constitutional Court case-law." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u9	Thank you, Madame. Next in line is Mrs Knechtová. In the meantime, before they arrive at the speaker's counter, I will make one apology: Mr. Mr. strýček Jiří apologizes at 13:00 for family reasons. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u10	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, Minister, I would like to begin by thanking all the citizens of our Republic who have been involved in helping Ukrainian refugees, all the mayors, mayors who have participated and involved in the implementation of the aid, as well as our labour offices. Given how much time and work everyone has done, I consider it important that we prepare the House press number 374, which is workingly called lex Ukraine, responsibly. I agree with the expression by the present Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that our aim is to support those who really need help in the most effective way. It is also important to verify the specific situation of humanitarian aid applicants, at the same time to burden our labour offices as little as possible. The question remains, however, how will the financing be resolved within the approved state budget. Despite tightening the conditions of support for refugees, the authorities are expecting costs at around 100 million per month according to the original materials for the design. And so I ask, where will the Ministry of Finance find the necessary money in the budget, and how can a standard promoter, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs do it? The proposed legislation will have an impact on the state budget. Overall, monthly costs at the level of approximately CZK 900 to 970 million can be expected, according to the reference report of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, referring to the benefits already paid. The material also contains significant budgetary implications. However, the material does not concern itself with the question of how these impacts will be covered, which I personally consider to be a fundamental deficiency. As a general rule, the chapter of the state budget, which presents legislative change in its budget, must ensure financial cover within its budget, or in the medium term, and the option that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will primarily ensure the necessary cost of money in the budget by means of transfers in its resources, in other words, saves money elsewhere, is unrealistic in my view. Following the above and in the context of the efforts to consolidate public finances, we are required to add to all relevant parts of the material that the relevant chapters will cover the costs related to this material from their own budget limits without sufficient requirements for the state budget - this was stated by the Ministry of Finance. The question is, therefore, whether the required hundreds of millions can cover the government's budget reserve due to the additional necessary spending of the state. I think it has to be clear on this issue. It is also, of course, for discussion of the appeal of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which draws attention to the following facts: finding suitable housing is not successful in the long term with some 270 000 Czech residents in housing distress. We are talking about Czech residents who have an advantage over people with temporary protection, including mother tongue and more extensive financial support. Therefore, I would like to point out that the situation is even more complex for refugees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u11	Thank you, Madame. The next one will appear in the order of Mrs Dražilová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u12	Thank you. I, too, would like to begin by thanking all those who help the Ukrajinec who are here. I say this on purpose, because one thing is help at a time when this is happening behind the spotlight, and something else is helping now, when to a large extent helping Ukrajinec has become part of a weekday. To help the first month, everyone has energy, but those who help now and after a year really need to be thanked out loud, and it is a pity that ministers don't do that. About a year or so, we ask the government to present a long-term plan for aid and a strategy for helping people fleeing the war, and to this day we have nothing. In doing so, we know that about two thirds of the refugees before the war remain in a country that will provide them with asylum in the long term. Unfortunately, to this day, no one knows exactly how many Ukrajinec, war refugees, we have here. Systematic evidence doesn't exist. For more than a year, we can only guess how many exactly are here. All we have here is chaos and government efforts to minimize the consequences of the mistakes she has caused. It is a good thing that most Ukrajinec, who are here, are naturally modest and are accustomed to even more chaos from Ukraine. Anyway, thanks to all the officials and volunteers who continue to help the Ukrajinec who are here. And when I talk about chaos, I really mean it, because according to the General Health Insurance Company, which registered Ukrajinec who are coming here, 362,000 people passed through its system by the end of January of this year. Where are the 470,000 people that the government campaign is talking about? Nobody knows. I would like to tell you that, unlike the ministers who are now throwing this aid away, we in the municipalities and cities need to work it off. As deputy mayor, I can tell you quite responsibly that even we in our town do not know how many Ukrajinec are really here. And that is a problem, because under these circumstances we have no idea how to plan some of the services or the functioning of the city's assistance for the future. Otherwise, in general, I must say that citizens from Ukraine are constantly turning to the social union with various requests. I forgot to say that we only have an accurate overview of the ukrajinec accommodations that are in our buildings, our facilities or our hotels - and yes, we know how many children we have in schools and how many kindergartens we have in kindergartens. So I continue to say that the social union usually turns to us with requests relating to humanitarian benefits, apartments, citizens' identities, but there are various complex issues being dealt with there. These are really difficult matters in the matter of disabled citizens, Ukrajinec, who are here. For example, such an interesting thing was that a minor mother gave birth to us who did not give up her father and had no family here. For example, we had an incentive from elementary school that the child had become ill, looked for the mother, and found that the mother had simply left for Ukraine that day, and the child was here unsupervised. And speaking of the numbers of Ukrajinec, the numbers of Ukrainian citizens, there's another question mark. We do not know at all how many of the 362,000 people that the state now pays for health insurance are really war refugees and how many of them just took advantage of the opportunity because they were in the Czech Republic or Poland long before the war began. Even a year after the outbreak of the war, we do not have optimized medical services in emergency rooms, we do not have optimized school and pre-school capacities, we have not been able to pass recognition of education for some key occupations of Ukrajinec or respond to this increase in the number of residents in housing policy. We've accepted hundreds of thousands of people, but we haven't modified the operation of the state. We have another lex of Ukraine, this time the fifth, and once again the government has presented it to us without any debate in advance. Let's go one step at a time. I understand why the officials may have given us the passage that says that refugees could newly live in emergency accommodation in residential hotels or guesthouses free of charge for at least 150 days. I understand that from the point of view of officials who thus resolve the problem of insufficient capacity, but I do not understand it from the point of view of refugees and the logic of the state's functioning. Maybe the state does, because it probably doesn't matter what happens to those people who have to make sure of it. I can speak for our city, because I see the state throwing more and more agendas at us, but they don't pay for it. [[13.30 hours]] I understand that the meaning of lex Ukraine V was, among other things - and I will now quote the Association of Regions - to create selectively effective and reasonably sensitive pressure on persons with temporary protection so that a very broad and friendly system of support in the Czech Republic was not abused and led to an even greater and active effort by people with temporary protection to ensure that at least part of the cost of housing and livelihood is covered. On the other hand, I must say that I agree with the opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities that they draw attention to the risks of simultaneous restrictions on emergency accommodation, on which tens of thousands of refugees are dependent these days. They warn against losing a roof over their heads without adequate compensation. Do any of the law makers really think that tens of thousands of people here are able to find commercial accommodation at normal prices? Any idea what it's gonna do to the real estate market? Did someone from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs take the job of looking at real estate servers to see the situation in the Czech Republic? Even now, both from the practice of organizations working with incoming people and from the experience of ammunition, it is clear that a large part of the holders of temporary protection staying in emergency accommodation remain there in the long term mainly because individual housing is not available to them or because they do not have the means and competence to use individual housing. Again, like everything else, this decision was made by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs without data. There is still no platform to map available housing, which would also allow possible relocation within the Czech Republic and thus support the transfer to available housing for some groups of refugees. And I completely miss the fact that most refugees do not want to move out of large cities, where naturally they have a better chance of gaining employment and community life. This will lead to a significant number of people entering the housing market at the same time, which will significantly affect rent prices and endanger social reconciliation, in other words, will make the rent more expensive. Already today it has become the standard that many people provide free apartments to Ukrajinec for commercial rent, which, in a better case, will then reduce them by a solidarity contribution. This is already a significant element of inequality that can be understood, because after all, it is the people who fled to us before the war. But, of course, it's been a few months for people, not a long time. And I remind you once again that it is absurd that oil is being added to the fire by this way, because a part of the population of similar behavior can act as a disadvantage for the Čech. I'm not saying it's true. Yes, those people are running away from the war, but not all people in the population understand that. Finally, I would say that this government has behaved very generously towards the Ukrajinec fleeing from the war in the first step. Now the task lies before her, in addition to words and proclamations, to project her aid into real steps, and I really ask her not to leave it only to cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u13	Thank you. Hello, dear. I have the facts here after your speech, but with it, Mr Ivan Jáč has applied, which I believe is an oversight. [[Yes.]] Okay, he's not in the room. So now we have Mr Igor Hendrych, Mr Vladimíra Lesenská, who will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will probably not be standing here for long today, because the vast majority of the arguments have already been made by my previous speakers today, so I will just touch on some things that may not be quite clear to me. First of all, I must stress that the YES movement is actually positive in general towards this bill, because it calls for tightening the conditions, some clarification of the conditions for payment of humanitarian benefits and the residence of Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic. It's okay. I even acknowledge that, at the last minute, today came an amended amendment by the Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, Dr Kaňkovský. We discussed this rather thoroughly on the Committee on Social Policy that there could indeed be some interpretational confusion in the event that the real estate considered by those humanitarian beneficiaries would be assessed in a universal way, thus theoretically even if it were to have the property in Ukraine, and in that case it would be difficult to determine whether it is so, and then probably it would also be difficult to assess that it would be possible for the particular person to have some income from it if it were a real estate that could not be used commercially, and so on. So I welcome this, it came at the last minute. I am pleased that the amendment is likely to have a positive view of the Minister's consultation with the President. But then there are some things that just aren't clear. I would like to quote, my previous speaker, Mrs Knechtová, has already said this from the explanatory note: "The proposal for an adjustment extends measures within the scope of the MPSV towards the requirement to secure housing outside emergency accommodation" and so on. In the light of the above, it must be noted that, at this point in time, the MPSV does not have, within the limits of its budget, the funds to cover the needs arising from the legislative regulation. I know Minister Jurečka was talking about this here on Tuesday at first reading, but I think that this thing - it would be good if he came up with a microphone for a while, and I assume that in the final word, he's going to touch this issue here and give us some options, and he's going to have something in his head where the money is going to come from, basically, because I think I understand that this thing is going to be dealt with quite quickly, but it should be here in this very clear. We should be clear about which binding indicator of the relevant chapter the money will come from. I hope the Minister will say something about it, at least in a way that's forward-looking. And then another issue that we also discussed on the Social Policy Committee, and that is that basically when assessing the entitlement to a humanitarian benefit, the applicant's bill will be monitored. We discussed this with the Chief Executive Officer, Mr Trpkoš, and we figured out that, in fact, the Ministry has no tool at the moment to determine whether the particular candidate has only one account and only one account that will be monitored, because, as everyone knows, we can have accounts, how many banks are almost, you could say, in the Czech Republic every citizen or every arrival in this country, and theoretically there can be accounts somewhere in some countries of the European Union, towards the west and so on, and they will already be checked hard, or the instruments are not there at the moment. So I think there's a little bit of a white place here in this one. So I wonder how this will work in practice. And the very last thing, and I also talked about it at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, and that is how and whether - and perhaps the Minister here also gave a slight hint, but maybe it would be more specific to me - do we all know that the labour offices are overloaded, they have a shortage of workers, already, in fact, they are somewhere at the limits of their work and so on, sometimes beyond, whether this new agenda will burden them to the extent that the problem in the employment offices will deepen even further? If it continues to demote current workers, whether it is considered, for example, that the employment authorities in this area will in some way strengthen themselves, or whether the Minister and the Ministry think that they will manage with the existing capacity of workers without causing any other operational problems that would threaten the payment of, say, any other insured benefits and so on. That's what I think everything is on my side at the moment, and I look forward to the Minister's commenting on my comments at least a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. The next enrollment is Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the second reading of House Press 374, which amends Act No. 66/2002 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws. Let me first briefly summarize what is actually involved in this proposal. The mentioned press is divided into seven parts. Each of the parts addresses a specific area of problems and these relate to changes to the Employment Act, the Act on the State Fund for Investment Support, the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations - this amendment was dealt with in very detailed terms here and was widely commented by my previous speaker. This press also amends the sickness insurance law. I think I'd like to do a little bit more work on the Employment Act. Its change addresses the conditions and entitlement to a humanitarian benefit and addresses these changes as well as other areas of social security. The humanitarian dose will be tested in the next dose. A survey of all income and assets in the accounts of temporary-protection foreigners will be carried out. The original proposal said that even those abroad, but so be it, at least on our territory - according to what the amendment proposes. These decisive facts will be able to be demonstrated by a temporary protection stranger with all possible documents or by an honest statement. The systems will be gradually linked to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs so that the Labour Office can automatically verify some facts. But we have already heard on the Committee on Social Policy that, of course, there will be a problem with our banks, or the provision of information by banks is, of course, bound by various regulations and laws. When assessing entitlement to benefits, there will be the introduction of a circle of temporary protection jointly considered by foreigners, based on joint housing and joint payment of the cost of life. Basically, we're getting closer to our shots. Humanitarian benefits paid, as well as funds from the United Nations Children's Fund, shall be excluded as income for the purpose of entitlement to a humanitarian benefit. The humanitarian benefit requested by a foreigner with temporary protection will be increased precisely by the cost of housing up to the amount of deductible housing costs laid down by government regulations. This concerns the apartments in the MPSV register, which will be made available from April this year. This register will be linked to the land registry, so I assume it will be easy to trace an apartment where foreigners with temporary protection will live. The amount of the humanitarian benefit will be linked to the amount of the living and existential minimum. That's what we called for last year, but thank God, at least now. It is a question of how foreigners with temporary protection will be able to secure housing when there is a large deficit in our housing fund, which is also highlighted by the Union of Towns and Municipalities in their comments. The competence of district social security administrations is also newly set up to assess, at the request of a foreigner with temporary protection, whether the foreigner is a disabled person, as well as when assessing the existence of a right to a disabled person's licence. I hope that the medical examiners will be able to continue to cope with any increase, just as they manage the assessment for our citizens when applying for a care allowance. Records shall be kept on the entry of persons with temporary protection into employment. Employers will be obliged to report to the Czech Social Security Administration. Employers will have to report the entry of a member of staff with temporary protection in employment or under an employment agreement, even if such work is of a small scale. They will have to report the arrival of an employee active under a labour agreement. The employer's obligation to notify the termination of such employment or other changes in the registered data shall also be introduced. The procedure for reporting these facts should not burden the employer so much as it is practically the same as reporting similar facts to our employees who are insured in sickness. The reason for imposing this obligation on employers is to avoid situations where the employer prepares an agreement on work done outside the employment relationship and, where appropriate, an employment contract with a fictitious low earnings at any time of any control. Effective control of illegal employment of persons, i.e. those doing dependent work without employment relationship, should therefore be achieved. In connection with this, changes to the sickness insurance law are addressed in the fifth part of the submitted press, where among other things the register of insured persons and the register of employers, whose administrator is the Czech Social Security Administration, is expanding. According to the new regulation addressed by this press, the temporary emergency shelter in the current concept will no longer be implemented, as the explanatory report says. The temporary shelter will be provided only to persons applying for temporary protection or waiting for a request for temporary protection following their expulsion from Ukraine until their applications have been processed. This will be handled directly by the Home Office, which is the news. The time spent in such shelters will not be included in the maximum period for providing free accommodation. This deadline should be 150 days. Within this framework, a place to submit and receive requests for temporary protection and their handling will be provided. In the event that temporary protection cannot be granted by turnover, the applicants will be secured by shelter and, if a person is granted temporary protection, accommodation will also be allocated to him within this facility if he needs it, but the capacity of accommodation, the conclusion of contracts with specific operators of accommodation facilities remains within the region. It is clear to me that this is an effort by the state to ensure that foreigners with temporary protection find their own housing and secure their housing claims as soon as possible and, above all, to pay their income. But is it really that simple? Is there enough apartments that foreigners can occupy? I don't think so, but that's what my previous speaker said in relation to ammunition. This proposal will specify when the accommodation operator is entitled to a flat-rate compensation and how long and how the temporary protection will be provided to persons with free accommodation. Among other things, the proposed regulation aims also at solving quite specific situations where the period of 150 days actually expires, and a foreigner with temporary protection will not be able to secure and get his own housing. [[13.50 hours]] This means that for those who are not employed or lead as state insured for other reasons, that is to say, as in particular as job applicants, and at the same time as their health status will be so serious that they are objectively not allowed to apply for employment, the proposed regulation addresses the health insurance undertaking's claim to a serious health condition. This means that it will typically be bedridden persons who cannot be given a third-degree disability decision, women at risk of pregnancy, people with oncological disease in recent stages of palliative care, and so on, which will result in a long-term impossibility of employment. After assessing the medical documentation, the health insurance undertaking will then place these persons among the state insured. Now I would like to state the great speed of the press at which the passed law was discussed by the government and signed in Prague on 27 January this year. Today, that's 10. Two, we're dealing with his second reading. The submitted press was dealt with at an emergency meeting or at a very quickly convened meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, but the whole part concerning the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations in the Health Committee was not addressed at all. What a mess it is, my colleague mentioned it here. However, allow me now to comment on this government proposal. I can say that not only I, but we welcome the entire SPD club that the government has finally adopted some of our proposals, which we have been talking about in relation to the residence of Ukrainian refugees in our territory for almost a year, and that it has embodied them in the current amendment to this law, which primarily concerns setting the conditions for social support for these people with temporary protection. We acknowledge that the humanitarian benefit for these people will no longer be extensive, but that before it is granted, all the income and property of applicants will be examined, as is the case with Czech applicants for social support and assistance. It is also a step forward in the introduction of housing records that will be used by people with temporary protection and to whom humanitarian benefits will be drawn, respectively, and which will relate to eligible housing costs associated with applications for these benefits. We also requested to include this in the law last year. There are also adjustments aimed at reducing the administrative burden of today's completely overwhelmed labour offices. Too late, but still. And I hope, within the framework of digitization and interconnection of systems, that it will actually succeed. There are also adjustments in order to reduce the administrative burden today absolutely... I repeated that, I'm sorry. The SPD's movement agrees with temporary adequate humanitarian aid to real war refugees, while at the same time rejecting any abuse of public money by entities and persons who are not entitled to such assistance, which only inadmissibly parasite and rob the Czech State and taxpayers of real war refugees. It is only a pity that the government did not want to perceive our proposals and did not implement them much earlier. Perhaps, as a state, we would save some amount of public funds and not cause the discontent of our own citizens, who pointed out that access to them and the Ukrajinec is quite different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u17	Thank you, and I have Mrs Věra Adámková in writing, and then Mrs Mračková in writing, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just don't see any Minister. [[There's a voice from the benches.]] Yeah, well, I wouldn't deny you the right to be here. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want a few words, because we've heard a lot about this law today. And I have to say that during the relatively short time that it is in the world, I have been approached by dozens, dozens of experts in speech therapists, whether they are working at the clinical logoped position, or not by clinical speechps, and there, let's say, these two organizational components are still arguing about what position they will be in, for example, schools. Here I absolutely welcome the fact that we allow experts in any area that they can work here, that is certainly okay - speech is certainly very important, a child who can't speak, can't write and so on, it is certainly good for these children to be spoken to in their language. I just want to point out that the logopedo, which is supposed to correct the pronunciation failure in a given language, must also be properly able to do so, because it simply cannot be done otherwise. And what bothers me is that without any prior agreement with the professional public here, it's actually the label of one of the basic health laws and we're touching one of the professions of a nonmedical medical profession, which is a logoped. In speech is a unique, completely unique scientific concept in this world very important. I will not repeat what Dr Mádlová has already said, because you have all heard this, but of course they now feel first of all disparaging their profession, secondly lack of a certain interest in this profession, and, of course, and I understand, they feel that they have been taken here as if without prior agreement, thrown into life where they do not want. Nobody talked to them, they don't know what's gonna happen, what it's gonna look like, if there's really a time limit. And, on the other hand, from other professions, he says, "Well done, so we have to do more or less everything, and here the politicians decide, and they decide that something doesn't have to be. So I believe that the unfortunate timing was such a quick, unfortunate approach to this very important health bill and that it was certainly appropriate to consult more here, to act more, to prepare the expertise for what is being prepared, because this brings more unclear questions and answers we have not yet received. So I'm sure I don't think it was quite properly done here. It could damage these people. On the other hand, we certainly welcome the possibility of involving experts where necessary. So I repeat once again that putting the basic law on the label is wrong and not discussing this with the paramedics, with those to whom this is due, is also wrong. And the speech experts, whether they're in the position of clinical or other logos, you certainly didn't enjoy it. So it wasn't happy for me, and I'm assuming there's still going to be an improvement so that it's viable for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u19	Thank you and I am now the last person to attend the general debate signed by Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, unfortunately, I was not at first reading for health reasons. I would certainly like to thank you for the fact that Lex Ukraine here It is, but I would like to mention that it was the ANO movement that did not support and abstained from lex Ukraine IV precisely because the things currently contained in the Lex Ukraine V should have been approved a few weeks ago when the Lex Ukraine IV approved. [[14.00 hours]] Many people have already appeared here today on a proposal that mainly affects the social area. I certainly thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that these things are contained there, but there are also things that affect the Ministry of Regional Development, and these are the regional assistance centres that currently provide all the regions. Therefore, from 1 April they will be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior to the Department of Asylum Migration Policy, but, of course, the captains agree, that was the agreement. But it would be a good thing that when discussing the third reading - and I would like to call for that, the Minister of the Interior is here, and I would love to define it, because it will pass under those regions from 1 April, but if the House were to pass and an emergency would be declared, it would automatically go under the county again, so that it would define to us in some way when, in which case, an emergency would be declared. But just so it's not so that April 1st goes to the Home Office, in a few weeks, months, there's an emergency, and it's going to go back to the county. And at the same time, I'd love to, because he's very upset with me from the chair that these regions have been so busy with it, they've done a great job in the regional assistance centers, but a lot of regions still haven't paid their expenses, and the Ministry of the Interior doesn't want to pay their expenses to the regions. They don't want to be paid off by regional employees who, at the same time, in their spare time, were in those regional assistance centres. Now I'm going to transfer it, the Karlovy Vary Region, to which I think 14 million crowns are owed, that's a lot of money. So I'd like to ask the Home Secretary to come to the third reading and tell us here that he's gonna pay all the county money because I think he deserves it for the work they've done, even if he owes hundreds of thousands in some regions, hundreds of thousands, but they're just supposed to get paid for it. At the same time, whether he would answer the question of any emergency. Then I would like to call on the Minister of Health to come to the third reading, too, to explain to us what my colleague, Mrs Ivana Mádlová, told us here about the label on clinical speech. I also find this to be incredible, that it is a sticker. And I know it's not the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs' fault, but I assume the Minister of Health will be here for the third reading. And the last one. Did you register that the Union of Towns and Municipalities sent us all a letter saying that he would like us to in some way reconsider and accept the amendment, so that it would not be restricted by emergency accommodation for those 150 days? And that is where I think, and I call for the third time that the Minister for Regional Development, under which housing belongs, will be present, and so tell us how the situation within the Ministry for Regional Development will be addressed, because today around 70 000 refugees are accommodated in emergency accommodation, but within the citizens of the Czech Republic 270 000 people also do not have housing, so it is necessary to address the situation and we need to know the proposal for that solution. So I am calling for this and thank you for allowing me to comment on this House's press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u21	Thank you, too, and since I no longer have anyone enrolled in the general debate - it is not so, I am ending the general debate. For the record, I'm going to ask, is there an interest in the final words now? Yes, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will try to respond briefly, factually, to the essential things that have been said here in the general debate. Regarding the issue of property and their reviews in Ukraine, here we really reflected the debate that took place on Tuesday at plenary here, which also took place at the Social Committee meeting on Wednesday, that is, the amendment is prepared, together with the MPSV and, in agreement with President Kaňkovský, who will read it here and sign up for it, so we will treat this. Yes, I understand that the question of housing is not entirely simple, but precisely to be able to respond to how the price of housing costs will develop, the price of energy, hence the authorisation for a government regulation, where we will be able to change the adjustment in time as well. As regards the question of costs and aid from the EU. I will remind you that last year, funds were drawn from the Ministry of the Interior in the framework of the policy implemented by the Ministry of the Interior to help and support refugees. I don't know the amount at this point, but I suppose the Home Secretary will be able to complete it at third reading. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has agreed to help finance the costs, which are here primarily for vulnerable groups such as children, people with health and specific needs, where UNICEF has promised - and this is confirmed by contract - support that goes to hundreds of millions of crowns. So it's another source of funding for these costs. As far as the question is concerned, how was it mentioned that there was chaos and so on? I have to contradict this, because when I was on the territory of the Czech Republic last year, but also at the level of negotiations within the Council of Ministers EBSCO reported on the situation as we have set up assistance in the Czech Republic, there were also individual members of the European Commission, who were quite detailed about the whole system of operation including the social one, so we heard rather a very positive assessment that the Czech Republic is handling the situation as one of the best organised countries in terms of the assistance system, including, say, how the system is set up in terms of the possibility of digital administration and so on. So I'm going to allow myself to refuse those comments on chaos here in this way. As far as the capacity of the labour offices is concerned, we are, of course, working to continue to strengthen it. I have made it clear that I want us to get this situation under control by the end of the first quarter, so that we have the payments that will be made within legal time limits, in time for our clients. I am certainly not satisfied with this - and I have also said this in recent weeks - how the system works so far when it comes to some client comfort zone. With regard to the letter from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, I must say, we discussed very intensively on the working groups on about 6 January, both with representatives of the Association of Regions, with representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, and by this week no objection was made to tightening the conditions for accommodation, shortening the deadline, defining vulnerable groups. On the contrary, this was very strongly requested from the territory, especially the Association of Regions very strongly asked us to implement this tightening and shortening of the form of aid from six months to 150 days, so it was granted. I think it really is time to send out a clear signal to all those who can work, do not care about small children, do not care about any person with specific needs, they are not people over 65 years of age, so that these people really very actively look for a place on the labour market. There is a transitional period of three months between 1 April and the last June, so I think it is necessary clearly after these people have been here for some time, say: They have objective conditions for them to work, so let them work. Thanks for the approach from most of you to which you acknowledge the proposals that are in Lex Ukraine V. I also thank you for the willingness that we are able to discuss this outside the legislative emergency, outside the 90th, but with these short deadlines, so that we can make it to deadline 1. 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u23	Thank you and I will just make sure - the rapporteur is not interested in the final word? Excellent. We can therefore move forward, I am opening the debate in detail and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. And before Mrs Ivana Mádlová comes, who is the first to be logged in, I will read the apology received. Mr Radek Koten apologizes from 13:30 pm for working reasons and Mrs Petra Quittová for the whole day for health reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u24	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am reporting to my amendment number 1870, which I presented in the general debate, and I am very, very much asking for your support with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Jiří Navrátil, Mr. Vít Kaňkovský, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to make a motion to shorten the period between second and third readings pursuant to Paragraph 95 (1). This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u27	Thank you, too. The proposal has been noted. And Mr. Kaňkovský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u28	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues. I will briefly mention my amendment, which has already been discussed here in the general debate. This amendment resulted from the debate in plenary at first reading and in committee and concerns the refinement of proof of income, and in particular the property of applicants for humanitarian benefits, in order to cover only property in the territory of the Czech Republic. So I officially apply to House document 1878 and I beg you for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-001-111.u29	Thank you, too. No one else is reporting, so I am now ending the detailed debate. I ask again - now there is no interest in final words, excellent. I will have my colleagues and colleagues come to the hall to vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline. I'll check everyone out. Please log in again with your registration cards. Please log in again. We will vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to 7 days. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 125 99 Members and Members were registered, for 98, against no one. The shortening of the deadline was accepted. We don't have anything else to vote on. I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We still need to put to the vote on the proposal to remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will ask my colleague and colleagues to vote on the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated points. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes the elimination of unnegotiated points? In the 126 vote, we voted 99 again for 93, against 1. Points have been eliminated. This has exhausted the approved agenda of the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am ending this meeting. Before I wish you a quiet weekend, I'll see you again on Tuesday, February 21st, and it'll be at the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, classic at 14 o'clock. Goodbye.
