ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u1	99. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Comprehensive Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Member States of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, signed at Bali on 17 October 2022 /Household printing 391/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, this press will again be presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission, together with the EU Member States, negotiates, within the framework of the European Union's external policy, so-called comprehensive uniform air agreements with important partners or with neighbouring states. In the case of the EU-ASEAN Air Agreement, this is actually the first ever agreement between two blocks, between two organisations, groups, it has always been with specific states, so in the case of the Czech Republic, the EU-ASEAN Agreement will then affect nine other air agreements. The Agreement contains conditions for the performance of commercial air transport between Contracting Parties, such as the scope of traffic rights, cooperation in the areas of safety and aviation security. This is an important step towards more intensive cooperation between the European Union and ASEAN, and it can definitely contribute to the potential development of another direct air link between European countries and ASEAN, potentially also for the Czech Republic. I therefore ask that the Chamber of Deputies refer the material to the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Hayato Okamura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that this is House Press 391. It is for approval to ratify the comprehensive Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Member States of the Association of South-East Asian Nations, of the other part, signed at Bali on 17 October 2022. The aim of the agreement is, as the Minister has already said, to comprehensively regulate the relations between the European Union and ASEAN in commercial air transport, with the agreement, once it has entered into force, to replace the relevant provisions of bilateral air agreements negotiated between the EU Member States and the ASEAN Member States which have been in force so far. Unlike other individual agreements, the agreement is unique in the fact that it is the world's first air agreement between two regions, which also constitutes a major transport market between Europe and Southeast Asia. The agreement will bring new business opportunities for both existing and new air carriers, which will contribute to improving the services offered to passengers and creating a fair and competitive environment. I recall that the Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the international treaty by resolution 132 on 22 February 2023 and proposed for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate where I am registering one application. Please have Mr. Jiří Strýček in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u6	Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, I represent here as the club rapporteur and I would like to express here the opinion of the ANO club on this government proposal. Of course, we, as the club of the ANO movement, will approve the release for second reading and the subsequent approval of this government proposal with the ratification of this comprehensive air transport agreement between the European Union and its Member States. As has already been said here, the aim of this agreement is, in fact, a comprehensive adjustment of relations between the European Union and the Association of South-East Asian Nations, the so-called ASEAN, in commercial air transport, with the agreement, once it enters into force, to replace the relevant provisions of bilateral air agreements negotiated between the EU Member States and the ASEAN Member States. Here it should be pointed out that this is essentially the world's first air agreement between two regions, the so-called block-to-block agreement, which also constitutes a major transport market between Europe and Southeast Asia. [[11.40 hours]] ASAAN is a regional international organisation founded in 1969 in Bangkok, which now brings together Brunei, Philippines, Indonesia, Cambodia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. The entire area of 37 Member States of the European Union and ASEAN comprises approximately 1.1 billion inhabitants. The European Union is the second largest foreign investor in the ASEAN region, and ASEAN is the third largest trading partner in the European Union. So I don't think there's a problem here, it's conflict-free. Once again, we will recommend the release for second reading and its subsequent approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-008-099.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate? I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. Now I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur want final words? [[No. No.]] It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. In that case, I shall make a motion for a resolution. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 119, 136 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 97, against 1. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. We have ordered this press to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. I'm done discussing this press. I'm opening another point in today's meeting,
