ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended /German press 312/ - third reading We launched this item on 8 February at the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the debate was interrupted. I would remind you that the amendments are in Parliament's 312/3 press, which was delivered on 16 December 2022, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's 312/4 press. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Radovan Vích, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue the interrupted debate, where President Marek the Výborný is the first to report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, I will be very brief, but given that the House's 312 press has been discussing for quite a long time, the third reading needs to be adjusted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the effectiveness of this law or this draft amendment of the law. Therefore, allow me to propose a correction within the framework of legislative technical adaptations in the third reading, propose a correction of the date of effectiveness of the draft law amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and political movements, as amended, in accordance with § 95 para. 2 of Act No. 90/95 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as follows: Article 2 (1) (a) 3 read: "Art. 3 Efficacy. This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2024.' I ask that, when we get to the vote on this bill, this proposal should be voted in the framework of legislative technical adaptations. Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask that this proposal be given to the rapporteur so that he can include it in the voting procedure. The President of Michálek is still applying with priority rights. Before I give you my word, I have to say that Vice-President Jan Skopeček votes with a replacement card number 20. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on what my previous speaker, Mrs Schillerová, said. The reason why we advocate this bill, including the amendment, is for a simple reason: because we are fulfilling the promises that we have made to citizens with whom citizens elected us in the elections and with which we have also gained confidence to have a majority in this Chamber of Deputies. [[11.20 hours]] Similarly, we are fulfilling our promises not to indebt this country, and we want to go a different way in this area than the previous government, which has done almost nothing to reduce debt in recent years in particular. So let me briefly reply to some of the things that have been said here and refute quite clearly that this is not a matter for the Pirate Party, but that it is based on a whole series of international recommendations. I hope we're not in a bit of a delusion here, that the Pirate Party is controlling everything through Brussels, and I don't know what else we're coordinating with Mars. Because when we see the data, it will be quite clear that the recommendations set transparent conditions for media ownership are supported by international organisations. The Czech Republic was in the index that Reporters do without Borders on media freedom in 2014 in the 13th place. Following the fact that the ANO movement acquired a position in the government and at the same time its chairman Andrej Babiš also owned or bought a large list, the Mladá frontu DNES and related iDNES, so of course the journalists evaluated it very negatively and the Czech Republic got up to 40th in the following few years. Even the Čech, according to the international organization Reporters without Borders, were worse off in media freedom than Botswana and Burkina Faso. In 2023, now that the current data came out, this situation improved precisely because there is no accumulation of influence between the Prime Minister and media ownership, and the Czech Republic again has 14th place in this ranking, which is quite a good situation. We wouldn't want to go back to that bad evaluation we had here in the past. And even that international organization, Reporters Without Borders, points out that the cause of this poor evaluation and the deterioration of press freedom is a threat to the high concentration of ownership of private media, and it also adds pressure on public broadcasters. So it's just to see how international organizations assess this, Reporters Without Borders. Another part where we made a commitment as the Czech Republic to take action against conflicts of interest was in the National Recovery Plan for Measure 214. There we promised, as the Czech Republic, that in order to receive money from Europe, we would fulfil our commitment to tighten the conditions and avoid conflicts of interest, especially in the area of prevention and so on. And that's exactly the bill we have here. Furthermore, we will look at the Report on the Rule of Law for 2022, which was submitted in the European Parliament by Věra Jourová, a Member of the European Parliament, who had previously been proposed by the ANO movement. Part of the report on the rule of law, which is a basic document which is discussed at European level and is asked about by all ambassadors, representatives of other states, and evaluates us according to them (?) Other states, when we act as the Czech Republic in these negotiations, are also recommended by the European Commission, which therefore said Věra Jourová, to complete the revision of legislation on property returns and conflicts of interest. Among other things, by clarifying the definition of genuine ownership and progressing in further reforms concerning transparency of media ownership information. Mrs. Jourová has said so. She said she was convinced that a politician should not own the media, she considered it unfortunate, and she advised several times that President Babiš should sell his medium. Another international institution that criticizes the fact that there is no adjustment of conflicts of interest is the Czech National Committee of the International Press Institute, which stated in its report that Members should strengthen the law on conflict of interest, which would prevent public officials and government members from owning the media. Now, about how it was contested that the law was unconstitutional. Have we all really read the Constitutional Court's finding, which discussed the fundamental ideas of the proposal? For one thing, both materially and from a legislative point of view. In terms of substantive law, the Constitutional Court stated that the provisions of Section 4a of the Conflict of Interest Act fulfil a mission that goes beyond the scope of the regulation of conflicts of interest, as it follows that a public official cannot influence or even control the media, whether as an owner, as an entrepreneur, or as a publisher or operator. By means of Section 4a of the Act on Conflict of Interest, the State does not intervene in free political competition, as it does not restrict freedom of expression or censor here, but rather creates conditions for its conduct in order to protect the rights and freedoms of other participants in this competition, as well as its transparency, says the Constitutional Court. In terms of public interest and the protection of democratic values, therefore, the legislative effort is acceptable, which, in response to the concentration of significant economic and media power, makes measures within the constitutional order to prevent the possible gradual deformation of the democratic regime into the form of one of its fictitious or illiberal variants. This is one of the measures of a so-called defenceable democracy, which has its constitutional basis in the provisions of the Constitution and the Charter. You, through Mr President, argued that the law was unconstitutional. President Zeman attacked him the other day, you questioned it, and you lost it in that court, through the President. So just the next time you say there's a part of it that's unconstitutional again, let's think about it. The conflict of interest where you said it, so you were wrong, you lost it. That's what you said in the pandemic law, at his novel. You were wrong, you lost. We will continue with the list of international institutions that draw attention to this issue, as it is important that this is not an idea that falls only from some party interests here. Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers to the Member States of the Council of Europe on media pluralism and transparency of media ownership of 7. 3. 2018. It highlights the importance of public media in a democratic society and the need to ensure their pluralism. In the context of the matter under consideration, it can be pointed out in paragraph 11 of the Recommendation, which states that the adoption and effective implementation of media ownership control can play an important role in media pluralism, that such regulation can increase media ownership transparency and that it can address issues such as media ownership, direct and indirect media ownership and effective control and influence on the media, and that it can also contribute to ensuring an effective separation between the exercise of political power or political influence and media control or decision-making on media content. In points 3.5 and 3.6 of the Annex to this Recommendation, entitled Guidelines on Media Pluralism and Transparency of Media Ownership, following the above, it is based on the authorisation of Member States to establish control, to establish a fair balance in particular where the media of political parties or individuals who are active in politics, and in particular anyone in elected positions, in order to ensure editorial independence and transparency of ownership, the editorial decision being fundamentally incompatible with the exercise of political power. So, after reading here the conclusions of the report on the rule of law by Věra Jourová, the National Recovery Plan, Reporters without Borders, the Czech National Committee of the International Press Institute, the Constitutional Court and the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers to the Member States of the Council of Europe on media pluralism, I think it is quite clear which direction the various international and important constitutional institutions recommend that an adjustment be made in this area. So it's not just about one person. Of course, everyone knows the problem is here. We see the problem very often. A typical example of how they inform the media, which are owned by politicians, and I think it's clear to everyone when the medium is owned by politics that it can't still be independent. We even have evidence of how it was influenced, it was all in the media. Also, how the Young Front treats the previous government, whose chairman was the owner of the Mladá fronta, in various ways. The real owner, as it is written now in the records of the real owners. This has also been repeatedly questioned here, but now it is clearly written in the records of the real owners that MAFRA - its real owner is Andrej Babiš. [[11.30 hours]] Also, when we look at the minutes that are there regarding the statutory body of the MAFRA, we see that one of the members of the MAFRA statutory body is Agrofert holding. It's just to put it in context. Mrs Procházková, the financial director of Agrofert, exercises shareholder rights there. So when the government of Andrej Babiš decided to give the pensioners a one-time allowance of CZK 5,000, this is the front page: Lower taxes and 5,000 to all pensioners. That's what the headlines looked like. A one-time allowance of CZK 5,000 should be received by the seniors before Christmas. That's how headlines go out on the Young Front when Babiš gives 5,000 seniors. When this government decided to give 5,000 to families with children, what do you think the headline was? Do you think the headline of 5,000 to all families came out, the government will help? No, the Bribe headline came out to the voters, to the right and to the government. So that's how the headlines come out in the media. Of course, many of you sitting here from the YES movement were also victims. I understand that this is unpleasant. Maybe when they got disliked, the articles came up against them. Those are other things that are uncomfortable. But I want to say that this law that we are proposing here, this amendment, is far from just about this area of ownership, but it also concerns the second part. It also concerns the procurement of subsidies and public procurement of government members. So I have to point out that the government isn't upset here, that she would say no, no, no, we don't want this regulation, that's unconstitutional, that's awful, you want us to tighten up the conflict of interest law as a government coalition. That's to make us realize that the other part of that law is tightening up on all members of the government. This government coalition voluntarily tightens its rules on conflicts of interest among government members. Of course, in this area too, the regulation is based on international documents. I really don't want to hold up so much here right now, so I'm just going to point out that in the European regulation of 2018, where there was a revision of Article. 61 The Financial Regulation has expressly extended the obligation to avoid conflicts of interest to persons involved in managing EU funds in Member States in the area of shared management, a huge part of subsidies, contracts and so on. There is a conflict of interest where, for family reasons, for emotional reasons, for reasons of political or national kinship, for reasons of economic interest or for other direct or indirect personal interest, the impartial and objective performance of the functions of persons involved in the implementation of the EU budget is compromised. So the European Union also requires Member States to take appropriate measures to deal with European money in this area within the framework of the Financial Regulation. This was even addressed by the European Court of Auditors, which, on the basis of information from the European Commission, gave the Czech Republic a beautiful boxer in his report, where he described the issue of conflict of interest in companies managed by the then Prime Minister, who were beneficiaries of EU aid in the field of agriculture and cohesion. The Commission carried out a coordinated audit at the beginning of 2019. The Directorate-General issued its final audit report in December 2019 and, during 2020 and 2021, the Directorate-General monitored the implementation of the conclusions and recommendations of its audits by the Czech authorities. So the European Commission is also dealing with this issue. Of course, there are possibilities for policies abroad to take measures to actually make this a separation. It's a so-called blind fund. However, it works in the blind fund that the Board of Protectors has the task of supervising the fund manager and ensuring that it complies with its obligations and manages the fund in the interests of the owner. At the same time, those members of the Protector's Board must be independent of the fund's owners, and there must not be the possibility of a close relationship of influence, so that it can still be considered a blind fund. Now I would like to address some of the comments that have been made here, because I certainly welcome a substantive debate if it focuses on these matters. We had a meeting with the President of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements about the reservations that the Office sent to the Supervisory Committee where they were discussed. On the basis of these comments, we have decided, as President Excellent has already read here, to adjust the period of entry into force, where the Office has asked whether it would be possible for the adjustment to take effect as far as 1. 1. So we're here to meet the Bureau, so there's enough time to prepare for the new adjustment before it goes down so they can pick up the people that are needed for the new agenda. We also discussed the demand for an increase of one or two people on this issue. I don't think that's really the problem here. If the Chamber of Deputies approves this intention, it will, of course, respond to it through the necessary budgetary measures, systems and other steps. Now, on the issues relating to legislation. I have already referred here at one of the previous meetings to the House document, where the comments are answered in detail. Of course, I'll get off, if there are any other material comments coming out, I'm ready to answer that. The comments that are here. The proposed text of paragraph 7 of the amendment. The following shall be inserted after Section 19h: 19ha, hb, hc, including the title, text and so on. According to the comments, this contradicts the legislative rules and is part of the explanatory memorandum, not the legislation. However, this is not the case, because those provisions establish the authority of the supervisory authority, logically. If they introduce obligations, it is necessary to do so by law pursuant to Art. Article 2 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 1 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Since these provisions further govern the specific legal consequences of non-compliance with the public functionary's obligation to terminate the status of beneficial owner pursuant to § 4a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2. This cannot be done in the explanatory memorandum, and it needs to be done by law. Second observation, supplementing § 19ha para. 1. The Authority shall assess, on the basis of a notice from a public official or further complaint received by the Office, whether the conditions laid down in Section 4a of the Conflict of Interest Act are fulfilled. That was the reminder to the staff. The proposed amendment does not require the ÚDHPSH to carry out time and professionally demanding checks on the property structures of the real owners and operators of radio and television services, or actual owners of all periodic printed matter. That's what the Bureau and I explained. There was a question of the fact that there was a certain qualification of the media as part of the amendment. It concerns the media that have an obligation to set up an annual report. Thus, there is a significant narrowing of the media, which should relate to it so that it is really administratively feasible under the conditions of the supervisory authority. At the same time, it should be noted that the current model of supervision of compliance with the conflict of interest law is based on the duality of public authorities. While the authorities of the municipality exercise the powers of the sanctioning authority, the Ministry of Justice fulfils the tasks of the accounting authority, it also manages the register of notifications as an information system of public administration. Today, the practice that the Ministry of Justice cooperates closely with sanctioning bodies in the exercise of supervision of the conflict of interest law, which will also be new for a defined group of public officials of the ÚDHPSH. [[is]] Another point, thirdly, was to supplement § 19ha para. That is to say, the 60-day deadline for the implementation of the necessary measures. In fact, the necessary measures are already specified in the conflict of interest law today. This is all that is needed to fulfil the objective of the law in order to transfer ownership within that period. So, from the logic of the matter, if I conclude, for example, a contract for the future, that the property will pass within some 40 days, I'm sure it can be regarded as fulfilling the law. If the contract for the future wasn't dated for another ten years, it's not the logic of the matter. This must be assessed by the optics of the time limit set out in the law. [[11.40 hours]] It is already in § 4a para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of Justice of the Similarly, the transitional provision referred to in point 2 of the proposed amendment contained in the proposed amendment is designed. The provision already takes into account the individual complexity of specific property transfers, where it also states that, for reasons independent of the will of a public official, it is not possible to comply with the 60-day period laid down in § 4a para. 2, the public official shall inform the ÚDHPSH of this fact within the given time limit and shall take all necessary measures to comply with the legal obligation at the same time. I underline - all the necessary measures. It's not that it's enough to take one measure, and that would be the public official on the hook. Indeed, they must take all the measures that are resulting in what is stated in the law. Newly proposed wording of § 19h para. As a result, 2 of the Act on Association in Political Parties and Political Movements provides for a longer 60-day period only for those cases where a public official did not take action to fulfil the obligation in Section 4a of the Act on Conflict of Interest and did not inform the ÚDHPSH of this as envisaged by the above provision. Only then will another 60-day period be applied according to the proposed text of § 19h para. 2. As a result, the public official will have at least 120 days to fulfil the obligation set out in § 4a para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Because, of course, there may be some time before the time limit for administrative proceedings and so on. In view of this, we consider that such a period is sufficient to fulfil the obligation. With regard to the question of what is the central administrative office with which the UDHPSH can coordinate its activities, from which it is entitled to request an opinion, it is the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, because there it comes to be, of course, a competence for radio and television broadcasting. Fourth observation, annulment of § 14hb para. 1 - a declaration of invalidity of transfer to a person or person acting in agreement and consideration of another legal process under Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts. Now it's gonna be a little longer. The proposed regulation does not introduce any special judicial procedure, and it is therefore right that there is no amendment of Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts. The pronouncement of invalidity of a legal act constitutes a classic civil law case whose subject matter falls within the area of civil law proceedings and therefore also in the area of civil courts. The basic provision establishes the Office's active legitimacy to bring an action against a legal relationship which is not party to it and, on the contrary, does not introduce a special type of procedure. It is a completely similar arrangement as already contained in Section 42 of the Public Prosecutor's Act, which allows the prosecutor to file a motion for the initiation of civil proceedings for the annulment of the property transfer contract in cases where the provisions restricting the freedom of its participants were not respected when it was concluded. In principle, it will be the decision-making of a legal matter arising from the private law ratio, even if the applicant is a public authority - an administrative authority. According to Article 7 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Moreover, Article 3 (3) of Law 99/1963, the Code of Civil Procedure, applies that the courts are discussing and deciding other matters in civil law proceedings only if the law so provides, and such a law may also be the law on association in political parties and political movements. It is not and cannot therefore be an indirect amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure when it explicitly envisages a similar procedure in Section 7. The precondition for the procedure in civil proceedings is thus fulfilled both in the subject matter of the proceedings and in the jurisdiction of the court in the matter. Now, to remind you that it's a sticker, that's already been said here. I'd be happy to justify it. It's not like that. In the case at hand, it is not possible to refer to the sticker, or to the case in question, to apply the conclusions made by the Constitutional Court in the Stick-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At-At. stamp. Parliament of the Constitutional Court 77/06. In that decision, the Constitutional Court argued that the reasons for justifying the decision of the Constitutional Court 21/01 and added that the requirement for the foreseeableity of the law as part of the rule of law ceases to be fulfilled when the amendment of the law is part of another law in a formal sense, the content of which has nothing to do with the amended law. In paragraph 66 of the same finding, the Constitutional Court stated that, when assessing the constitutionality of the legislative procedure for adopting the provisions introduced in the draft by an amendment, it was decisive to assess whether the amendment in question was in a material sense. This means assessing whether it was an inadmissible expanse in interpreting what the amendment is, using the so-called narrow-relationship rule. The Constitutional Court commented on the close relationship test in paragraph 52 of the cited finding when it stated: This rule expresses the requirement under which the amendment must relate to the same subject matter of the proposal which is currently being discussed in the legislative process. It is based on the idea that the House may at some time discuss only one material in substance. Its purpose is to ensure a proper procedure in terms of properly informed and factually prepared debates and to ensure the flexibility and effectiveness of the House's negotiations. If an amendment is tabled which conflicts with this rule, this may be brought to the attention of another member of the House. The objector also has the burden of proving the conflict of the amendment with this rule of close relationship. Having raised an objection to this rule, the President shall first examine the nature and purpose of the provisions of the bill under consideration and then the relationship of the proposed amendment to that provision. It follows from this rule that the amendment must be closely related to the purpose of the specific provision of the bill or part thereof. This condition is fulfilled in the present case because the proposed law regulates the scope of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements and the amendment extends this scope, i.e. a close relationship is given between the proposals and the provisions of Section 63 para. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which the Member may submit proposals for the present case. The proposal maintains an action-sorry relationship with the original proposal, which governs the scope of the ÚDHPSH according to the Constitutional Court ruling of 31 January 2008 sp. stamp. The plenary of the Constitutional Court 24/07. Provisions - now I continue to make another reservation. This is, of course, a reservation that there was not enough time and so on for discussion. In this situation, when we have been discussing a very similar or similar proposal for three years, it is probably not entirely relevant. The provision that the court does not take into account invalidity without a proposal may also be applied in a situation where a different dispute is the subject of a judicial assessment, the outcome of which depends on an assessment of a preliminary question requiring an assessment of the validity of the legal act in question. The purpose of the provision is to ensure that, even in such a case, the penalty effect of the proposed law occurs. So part of that law is designed to make some actions a misdemeanor. This, of course, corresponds to the sanctioning provisions of the law affecting the offence, but in parallel to this, a specific process is established for the correction of those private effects, and that is what the courts are responsible for, as I have said in that capacity. The fifth reservation concerns the annulment of § 19hb para. 2. If the administrative authority does not cancel a public grant contract which has been concluded in breach of the law on conflicts of interest, the Authority may request the administrative authority responsible to decide on disputes arising from public contracts to abolish it. Now the reservation goes on. According to Law 150/2002, the Authority, as an administrative authority, is not entitled to bring an action against another administrative authority, the purpose of which could be to repeal the already final decision ending the administrative procedure, the decision granting the subsidy or the investment incentive to a private entity. To this reservation. In the present case, this is not the procedure provided for by Law No 150/2002, the Administrative Rules of Procedure, but on the procedure under Law 500/2004, the Administrative Rules, in particular under its fifth part governing public contracts. In accordance with the general subsidiarity of the Administrative Code, it is permissible for special laws to provide for a different procedure from the administrative order, which explicitly assumes this in its Section 1 (1). 2. [[11.50 hours]] In the present case, it is the creation of a specific active legitimacy by a proposal, i.e. the position of the party to the proceedings, to seek the annulment of the public contract, which constitutes a special amendment to Section 165 of the Administrative Code, which is applied in a subsidiary manner in the rest. It is only in the event that the superior administrative authority decides on an application for an FDSH contrary to the law that the FDSH has an active defence to bring an action against an illegal decision in the public interest, in full compliance with the current wording of Section 66 of the Administrative Code. Under this provision, under the conditions laid down in the laws governing proceedings before the administrative authorities, the administrative authority on which such a law provides may bring an action. In the present case, this provision is therefore fulfilled. So to humanize it a little bit, maybe some colleagues won't be enthusiasts in public contracts, first when we have a public contract, like the subsidy or some other institute covered by the conflict of interest law, so it is dealt with in administrative proceedings, and there the office is supposed to file a motion to the superior authority responsible for it, and it decides whether it is valid or invalid. It is only if this procedure does not work that there is a special authorisation under the Administrative Rules of Procedure. This can be applied in such a way that compliance with the proposed adjustment is achieved. The sixth point concerns the determination of the upper limit of the fine by the amount of the legal entity's assets. Therefore, there was a reservation that a fine of up to 3% of the assets of a legal person whose public office is a partner, member or beneficial owner may be imposed for the offence and that it would be appropriate to specify the method for determining the extent of the assets. On this point, I state that the specific adjustment is set out in the proposal in Section 19l. In order to determine the upper limit of the infringement penalty under this Act, the value of the assets shall be determined from the financial statements or consolidated financial statements of the entity drawn up for the financial year preceding the financial year in which the offence took place. Where a legal person does not have such an accounting statement, it shall be based on the statement for the previous financial year. Where the actual amount of the assets cannot be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1, it shall not be possible to determine the actual amount of the assets. 4, the value of the assets is determined by the Office by a qualified estimate, of course also taking into account the administrative rules. Public authorities shall cooperate in the application. It's possible to turn around... it is, of course, possible to take an expert on this, or it is possible to contact the Financial Authority to provide assistance, if necessary. But given what kind of... We're talking really big media here, big media houses that have an obligation to start the financial statements, so logically, the annual report exists. If she didn't exist, the court must have requested the contract in accordance with the Public Registers Act, requested the financial statements. So we're dealing with a problem that doesn't exist in practice. That's a purely hypothetical problem. Furthermore, from the principle of unity of the rule of law and the same diction of § 37aa of Act No. 563/1991 Coll., on Accounting, it follows that the scope of the assets will apply to ÚDHPSH identically, it will apply the same provisions to it as in the Act on Accounting. The seventh reminder, which is to § 19l para. 5 of the amendment. Where the actual amount of the assets cannot be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1, it shall not be possible to determine the actual amount of the assets. 4 financial statements, the value of the assets shall be determined by the Authority by a qualified estimate. The Authority considers that, in view of the legal certainty of the persons to whom administrative proceedings are to be conducted, where appropriate, it is not possible for the upper limit of the fine to depend on the qualified estimate of the Office. The amount of the fine must be known in advance. In addition, it should be noted that the Authority itself would not be able to establish a qualified estimate. I've already answered that question. In addition, I will point out that the determination of the amount of fines by qualified estimates in the course of the infringement proceedings is quite common for offences conducted by financial authorities under the Accounting Act. In addition, in certain situations, the Act sets out the preference for determining the value of the assets of the infringement procedure. The legal certainty of the persons to whom the infringement proceedings would possibly be conducted cannot therefore be jeopardised if the limit of the fine was based on a qualified estimate of the Office. I would now briefly discuss the reservations raised in the preparation of the draft law from the point of view of the Ministry of the Interior. There we also had some discussion, which ended in the end, I would say, quite favorably. Some things we have made clear, some are simply different views on the adaptation, both on the organicity of the inclusion of new competences. At the time, the Ministry stated that the inclusion of new powers of the Office in the law on association in political parties and political movements is, according to the Ministry of the Interior, non-organic, because it had nothing to do with its own substance. The amendment is now tabled on the amendment to Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and movements, as this law contains the determination of the scope of the organisation and the powers of the ÚDHPSH. From the point of view of legislative technology and the requirement for clarity of the rule of law, no other solution is technically possible either. The reason why there is a transfer of powers to discuss certain offences under Act No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflict of interest, at the ÚDHPSH, is in short supply of current regulation, which does not provide for effective sanctions to prevent conflicts of interest in a mixed model of public administration, but also material conditions for impartiality of management. According to the current law on conflicts of interest, public officials are discussing the authorities of municipalities with extended scope. However, these may often come into conflict of interest in cases where public officials would deal with violations of the same political jurisdiction as their leadership, such as an offence, or an appeal against the decision of a public official. At the same time, the current legislation on bias in administrative proceedings and exclusion in decision-making in infringement proceedings is insufficient. Paragraph 63 of Law No. 250/2016 Coll., on Liability for Misdemeanors, only affects situations where the suspect is a member of the local authority of a local authority whose authority is the competent administrative authority to discuss it. In the context of the Supreme Administrative Court's case law, Section 14 of Law No. 500/2004 Coll., the Administrative Code, since when a body of a local authority decides in administrative proceedings in a case concerning the interest of that local authority, the reason for doubting that the official body is not biased pursuant to Section 14 (1) (a) of the Rules of Procedure. Its employment relationship with the local authority is only provided that there is a suspicion from the nature of the matter or other circumstances that, as a result of that employment relationship, its position on the matter could be affected by non-legal aspects. So I think this has been explained enough. I will therefore also point out that, in order to transfer powers, the Office for the Supervisory of Political Parties has been selected because it is the closest area of conflict of interest to all other independent central authorities. It is an office where management is appointed with the utmost respect for the synergies of more constitutional actors. So it's an office where really the best guarantees are the impartiality of that office so that it doesn't get abused for any political pressure. With regard to the comment on the President's inclusion, we realise, of course, that the President of the Republic is excluded from sanctions under criminal law, but we believe that some general provisions of the Act on conflict of interest should affect him and should also be subject to those provisions concerning the prohibition on granting subsidies, non-interest subsidies, investment incentives, or rules relating to concentration of political and media power. Some of the sanctions there are private, which means with the President of the Republic the penalties resulting from the constitution, or the immunity of the offence, so they apply only in the administrative area, not in the private one. So I think I've discussed all the comments. If there are any further questions and comments in the debate, I am, of course, ready to answer them. In conclusion, I only have one request. It's a law on the association of political parties. Let's not make this a law on delaying political parties. Let us conduct this discussion so that we can finish it. I believe that if we can't do it today, we can do the seven applications in a variable week. [[Big noise in the hall.]] [[12.00 hours]] We were talking about putting it on Wednesday, I think 14. 6. that we would therefore continue there to discuss this bill, or we would already set limits. If that had not been the case then, we would have already agreed that the following Friday would have set a fixed voting time for this bill so that it could actually be negotiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording four factual points. First will be Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Zuzana Ožanová, then Radek Vondráček and Mrs Helena Válková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for my two minutes. I would therefore like to respond to Mr Michálek. Mr. Ambassador, when Mr. Köppl appealed here on Wednesday, Vice-President Richterová here was telling me how you respect these laws and how you obey them and how it is your priority. Then explain to me why you really need to find some kind of rack to which you just have to put this amendment of yours. And you don't care what the law is! That's like saying that I have a law on water, and I'm putting the law on air in that law on water by amending the proposal, and both laws actually concern the environment, so it doesn't really matter! I'll always find a story! That's just your philosophy. You're already suffering from this obsession with Babiš. But such obsession! I just wanted to ask if you've visited any medical professionals since...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u7	Ask through me, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u8	... it's really on some medication! It's not normal. Because you really go into every law that suits you and reminds you a little bit, a little bit like what you need, so you're gonna put your amendment in there! I say that's not normal anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. As another Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, then Mr Radek Vondráček. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I am intrigued by Mr Michálek's last words, by your means, Mr President. You know, I would understand if it was his amendment, the government amendment to the law. Guys, that's just a stick to some other law. It is an amendment that says that Mr Michálek and others present it, but I just did not know who the others are, because it simply does not say it. But it's Mr. Michálek and others. Who are the others? And, honourable Member, through Mr President, there was a good sentence, I think my colleague Vondráček will follow up on this, as you spoke to the Office for the Management of Political Parties, if I have noted correctly, so that they can recruit people who are needed for a new agenda. Did you tell the Treasury Secretary Stanjur that you wanted an increase in your budget? I don't think so, they didn't. Because you said you wanted to save money, that you wanted to save jobs, but here you need to increase the number of people. Please, I don't know if you're able to make a deal in this coalition or not, and I confess that Mr. Michálek, at least to give him a speech, reminded me of one thing: he misses his opposition work!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Radek Vondráček, Mrs Helena Válková will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u12	Thank you. This is how I signed up for a factual remark on Friday, when President Michálek here was showing these headlines, and I'm thinking, if I were to show him all those headlines against Mr. Babiš in these media, I'd have to bring in red, and I guess that wouldn't be enough. But then I was overcome by the rest of the performance, and I also think my colleague misses the opposition. And I think that when you really want something, you think about it and you go for it, it's definitely gonna come true. [[Laughs of Members YES 2011.]] I'm just gonna show you a headline here: the Pirate complicated the mayor's efforts to miss them with a property confession. We've just been here before. Again, Jakub Michálek will have an amendment and will basically end a completely different law. I've got the prints next to me. The thinner one, that's the original law that the opposition doesn't really have a problem with, because we all know, and it says in the justification report that the organization is suffering from a certain deficit there, and that's what they say very diplomatically in the justification report, but this is what follows. And don't be angry, my colleague, I disagree with you. It has nothing to do with each other. Even when you put the same thing in the press 110...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u13	You don't agree with me through this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u14	Yes, through. Thank you. So when you put it in the press 110, the government wrote to you that it wasn't much of a connection, and that conflict of interest is a different topic. Likewise, the government wrote to you that the financial implications were not considered. That's what my colleague Ožanová said. And that's what the government wrote at 100, and that's basically the same thing. Friends, through the President, presidents of other coalition MPs, do you really not know how to compare one pirate? Are you sure you can't make a deal? Do we really have to lose the whole day at a time when Minister Šalomoun here is complaining about how many European regulations have not been adopted? [[Attention on time.]] This is where we read it in the paper. So couldn't we have done something sensible today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Now, Mrs Helena Válková's factual comment, Mr Jakub Michálek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u16	I would perhaps rephrase that it would be a factual remark, a factual sigh rather, Mr Vice-President. I was so looking forward to the speech, where I am obviously going to lecture part of the speech in the further continuation of this surprisingly detailed debate in the last minute of Mr Michálek's proposal, by your means, but there is one thing I will not forgive myself to say at least within the two minutes. Exactly the last sentence: We should therefore deal with the actual material that we are presenting. But the amendment proposal, which is why the Minister of the Interior is sitting here, concerns the amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties. That is not the proposal that he has stuck there, and now I dare to use the very clear term that Mr Michálek has put there. And the finding that he quoted here, which I reminded myself of in my last performance, really does have an effect on this particular case. From this material point of view, it is pointed out that such an adhesive that is not related to the material to be modified - and this is about better functioning, the technique of functioning of the office - does not belong to the law and must be declared unconstitutional. So it'll probably end up in the Constitutional Court anyway, if you push your way and you vote something that, not according to my inner conviction, too, but it doesn't matter, but contrary to all legal logic, is an adhesive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Jakub Michálek's point of order. It's the last point of fact - so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'm sure thanks to my colleagues for taking an interest in my health. My health is in excellent order and I hope that our democracy will be healthier once this bill is approved. As for the questions that my colleague Ožanová has been saying, if you're wondering who the petitioners are so far, take a standard look at the second reading, that's where I was saying it, so it's in the gutter. Minister Stanjura knows this, of course, because the proposal, as we originally put it in the Houses of Press 110, is signed by all the representatives of all the coalition clubs. And, of course, if you weren't obstructing the 110 press, we'd be happy to discuss the 110 press here. But when I came out here, how did the press discuss 110 that he was in the 20th emergency meeting, and you actually spent 18 hours building up so that things couldn't be discussed, then how can you blame us for trying to do it in a different constitutionally conformal way? I believe that just as we succeeded in the previous discussions, for example, in the pandemic law, where you said that this was the beginning of the dictatorship, nothing happened, and the Constitutional Court confirmed it and, on the contrary, you lost in the Constitutional Court. So let's talk business here about the bill. And it's definitely not like I'm trying to suggest it with everything. I proposed one regulation for public procurement contracts, and then I proposed it here, where it concerns the authority of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and the Movement, on the grounds that the draft law is intended to extend its scope. So the close relationship is quite obvious there, and I think that, of course, even if you question it, the President may not be able to help you now, so I think that you will not succeed again - through the President - in doing so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Another factual point - Mrs Hana Naiclerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to set the record straight. I am also a co-president of the amendment to this draft government law, along with Jakub Michálek and Michal Zuna. Because there's a young generation sitting here at the gallery, maybe she doesn't understand what we're talking about here, what's the point of our amendment to this draft government law, so it's simply that we want politicians not to own the media anymore because it doesn't match their role. The media should play the role of some kind of watchdog; it should watch over our democracy to avoid the headlines that Mr Jakub Michálek, through Mr President, has shown here. The problem is that in conflict of interest, or in the conflict of interest law, the rules are set up, but there are no mechanisms to enforce these rules effectively. And here it is in this very government bill that this way to resolve this matter quickly. We just have sanctions, and we're punishing subsequent mistakes, and that's just not enough. The aim of the proposal is therefore transparent and fair political competition. And I think that's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. From 12 o'clock on medical grounds, Mr Kamal Farhan apologizes, Mr Pavel žáček apologizes from 11 o'clock on a foreign trip. And now with priority rights, President Alena Schillerová is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will not speak for too long, but I feel the need to say a few words here about what we have witnessed several times. There are many topics that this House should certainly deal with. But it doesn't. The five-calice priorities are simply different, and the greatest of them remained Andrej Babiš. But I think it's fair to tell people straight. Dear citizens, we don't have time for your problems right now, we're still obsessed with Andrej Babiš. I guess that's what it should sound like. It's not surprising, as many commentators and political scientists have written, and everyone felt it somehow, the only glue of your disparate coalition was the anti-babish program. And so, of course, the points in this program are easier to fill, because on anything else, it is very difficult for you to find a match. It is good to take a short tour and remember how it was in the past, in 2016, when the original Lex Babiš was accepted. In fact, the House could have written anything in that law then, because the majority that enforced the law was clear. I must say that the President was actually very lucky, President Babiš, because if there were four pirates sitting in the House at that time, then perhaps the law would also prohibit him from breathing House air. Anyway, the law was passed in some form, and he fulfilled the law. That's just a fact. But it is not enough for some, because Andrej Babiš remains in politics, and so today, after seven years, when the majority in the House again, which can do virtually anything, once again the coalition forms laws directed against one person, and it runs like a running belt. It is actually a roundabout: where it goes, there is a colleague Michálek sticking something against the chairman of the ANO movement. However, this has led several times to the fact that it has once again become a policy out of the originally completely non-conflict transposition, which fully complied with the European Union directive. Why? Because some coalition MPs need to heal their minds and continue their holy war. How many times! The last time we saw this was a few weeks ago, when a part of the coalition MEPs acknowledged that the proposed amendment by my colleague Michálek was even in direct conflict with what the EU required from the Member States. Anyway, at least we're all clear on one thing. If the pirát didn't have Andrej Babiš, they'd just cut the four years in the House. They simply would not have a different subject, because unfortunately, the nature of their existence has been crushed only by the Chairman of the ANO movement. It's long-term bordering on some kind of obsession, maybe obsession. But it wasn't so surprising from the opposition party. But now, when a government party would expect a priority for it to be work for citizens, the solution to the marasm that you brought the country to will address why the Minister of Health can't provide medicines, why the Minister of Industry and Trade doesn't solve the highest electricity prices in Europe, or instead of finding solutions, attacks along with the Prime Minister Eurostat and other independent institutions, that they will solve the fraud of the Minister of Finance, who tricks everyone with fake figures when drawing up the budget, food prices, inflation, delayed pensions and so on and so on. But we're really not gonna get that. The pirates were comfortably engaged in public functions - and now mostly do not make sudden movements. That's why there's only one topic left, and that's Andrej Babiš. Let me tell you something. Not just you. It could be useful for the whole coalition. The antibabiš is no longer working. Constant excuses on Babiš and our government, haunting and all that - it just can't be done anymore. You've been in that government too long, and a lot of people have already opened their eyes. If the President of the Pirates Parliamentary Club lets it be heard that if the House does not approve the law quickly, the coalition will vote a solid vote time, I consider it scandalous. Did you have the Rules of Procedure in hand, Mr President, through the Vice-President? You know that's the law? And you know this is a violation of the law with everything? It's called the arrogance of power - we have most, we can do anything. But in my experience, I would recommend with humility that you always remember that you're sitting up here today and maybe you'll be sitting down here again. And I guarantee you that then you can bitterly regret such steps, because whoever takes your place will surely remember very well that you have applied such a procedure. And before you start lashing out at the EET and its approval process, I would recommend that you look at the figure of how long it took the debate before the coalition took such a step. Of course, it's not just about the pirátský Party. The role of cheerleaders is very well played by the other four sides of the coalition. But all you have before your eyes is the Chairman of the ANO Andrej Babiš movement, so you should realize that the adoption of such legislation de facto disqualifies successful people from politics who have done something and built something. That's just the message: If you're successful, don't go into politics! Sooner or later, we'll cut you out of it. Okay, now you're telling businessmen. And who's next? Who's next? Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and I think we all have something to think about, which is why, on behalf of the ANO club, I am taking a break at the ANO club meeting within 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Since this is the third reading of the bill, it is not possible to discuss this press after 14 o'clock. That is why I am interrupting this meeting until Wednesday 14. 6:00 a.m. till 9:00 a.m. Colleagues and colleagues, I thank you and wish you a nice rest today.
