ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 65th meeting on 3 May of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We will now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting, so I ask you to keep your voice down. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anybody checking in. That is why I am opening the vote on verifiers. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 1 registered 130 present, 122 pros, versus 1. But I do have a Member here to vote. Please. Colleagues and colleagues, please keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, I don't have a voting device.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u3	So you want to repeat the vote, declare them misguided, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u4	I'd be up for it, but the point is to get it fixed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u5	Okay. I would like to ask the Member to put the voting device into operation. The vote that has just taken place, number 1, is hereby declared invalid, confusing, because it has not worked for all devices. Once again, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down. As soon as we have information on whether the voting device works, we can proceed to this vote one more time. The voting device is said to be no longer operational, so we will have to proceed to repair and I will ask for a five-minute recess to repair the voting equipment. So we'll continue at 14.07 hours. [[The hearing was suspended from 14.02 to 14.07 hours.]] Five minutes for a break, which was caused by technical problems, has expired and technical problems during this break have been removed. Mr Kobza will vote with replacement card number 15. We will therefore repeat the vote that I declared before the announcement of the break for confusion. I will remind you that we will vote on the designation of two verifiers for this meeting. I suggested that Members be Zdeněk Kettner and Hayato Okamura. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to keep your voice down. Initiating vote on verifiers. I ask you again, who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote number 2 registered 168 present, for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura to the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologize for their absence to the meetings by the following Members: Balaštíková Margita for the whole working day, Bělohlávková Romana from 19 o'clock for work reasons, Berkovcová Jana from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel, Bernard Josef from the whole meeting day for health reasons, Dostálová Klára from 14 to 15.30 for health reasons, Flek Josef from the whole Urbanová Barbora for the whole working day, Golasowská Pavla from the whole working day for work reasons, Hájek Martin from the whole working day for the whole family reasons, Šimon Šimon from the whole Kubík for health Jan, Jakob Jan from 17 o'clock for Vondrák Ivo, kolář Bardřej from the Ondřej working day due to foreign travel, Kovářová Věra from the entire meeting Karel for the whole Tureček day, from the pokorný Jermanová of the sitting for the vlček Lukáš reason, Kučera Michal from the whole day for health Pavel, from the Potůčková Lucie. From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Baxa Martin from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Bek Mikuláš from the whole meeting day for work reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Hladík Petr from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole meeting day for family reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole meeting day due to foreign travel and Šalomoun Michal within 17 hours for working reasons. [[14.10 hours]] Mr Dvořák Jaroslav is still apologizing for the whole day for health reasons. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] We will now proceed to the proposal for the 65th meeting, as stated on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. So once again, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. First of all, we propose to exclude paragraphs 1 and 103 of the proposal for a programme, the House Press 252, the Government's draft constitutional law amending Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws, and Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll., second and third reading. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week. Tomorrow, Wednesday, May 17, we propose to discuss the items in order: paragraph 101, House press 377, the Government's proposal for an extraordinary waiver of social security premiums, third reading; paragraph 102, House press 384, the Government's proposal for an emergency forgiveness law and the demise of certain tax debts, third reading. At 1:45 p.m., we propose to firmly include voting points, namely points 112, a proposal for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies, paragraph 113, a proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Press Office, and paragraph 114, a proposal for the election of a candidate for appointment as Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Office. On Thursday, 18 May, after discussing paragraph 136, i.e. the government's response to written interpelations, we propose first to discuss paragraph 95, House press 433, the Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will be approved and the approval of the amendment resolution to the International Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping of Seafarers, 1978, as amended in 2010, the Agreement at first reading, and then discuss the points of the Act block - second reading, in order of paragraph 7, House press 371, the Government's proposal for the Act on Preventive Restructuring; paragraph 8, House press 372, amendment to the insolvency law; paragraph 2, House press 347, the Government's proposal for the Act on the abolition of obsolete legislation; paragraph 3, House printing 360, the Government's proposal for the Act on Public auction; paragraph 4, House printing 361, the Government's proposal for the Act amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on Public Auctions; paragraph 6, House printing 366, of the amendment to the Road Traffic Act. At 14.30 we would focus on paragraph 137, oral questioning, and after that the 65th meeting would then be suspended until Tuesday, 30 May, as the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened at 9 pm on Friday, 19 May. Furthermore, let me inform you that on 11 May this year the Senate returned the following bills to the Chamber of Deputies: a bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on public procurement, as amended, i.e. House printing 249/8, and draft law amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Modification of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, House Print 311/4. The legal period for their consideration shall expire on 21 May. Information at the end: the council of the capital city of Prague by its resolution of 27 April this year took back point 52 of the draft programme, i.e. the House Press 108, the amendment to the Act on the Property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations. Therefore, please take a moment to vote on this, it will not be part of the approved agenda. That's all on my side. Now, Madam Members, I ask you to speak on the agenda as well. There have already been many entries, so in the order they have been registered, the first sign-in with priority rights, which is therefore President Jakob and followed by President Schillerová. And before we proceed to give them the floor, I ask you again to lower your voice, to move your conversations into the foyer. It applies to everyone. So I'm going to ask you from the right side of the hall to move into the foyer, if you want to do something, the same in the left side of the hall, I see several colleagues who haven't quieted down. Once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. The sound level is really very high, and I would like to record the individual proposals as they sound, and I'm sure you want to hear what colleagues and colleagues are suggesting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of five-police clubs, I would like to propose the following modifications to a programme on which there was no consensus on the Gremium. As has just been said here, the Senate has returned two draft laws to us, which is why I will allow myself to include them on the agenda, namely the House's 249 press, the Public Procurement Act, and also to include the House's 311, Public Health Act on the agenda. You can negotiate after 22. 5. Therefore, at the moment, the proposal is merely for inclusion on the agenda, not for a specific date. Furthermore, today, or also to include the House Press 444, an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act, on the agenda, and it will be the first item in our negotiations today. As the second item of today's meeting, include item 23 of the programme, which is the House Press 437, the Government Bill on a State Enterprise, as the third item of today's meeting item 19 of the programme, which is the House Press 423, the Government Bill, the Labour Code. Subsequently, at 18 o'clock, or if the programme had not yet been voted on by 18 o'clock, which I do not want to anticipate, but the experience of the previous meetings has led to caution, so at 18 o'clock, or if the agenda was not voted on by 18 o'clock, as the fourth item today, House document 1927, which is item 132, motion for the removal of Daniel Köppl from the post of member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. I am aware that we would like to discuss these four points today, whether the last one will be placed at 18 o'clock or in that order. [[14.20 hours]] Furthermore, I would like to propose for tomorrow, Wednesday, as the first item to include point 97 of the agenda of the meeting, the House's press 263, which is the Government's proposal for the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. This would move the two listed points, prints 377 and 384 from Gremium, behind this press, and therefore I would like to propose point 9 as the fourth point on Wednesday, House press 165, which is the Senate Bill on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic, and it is at second reading. There is a preliminary agreement that we would discuss these four points on Wednesday or afternoon. As I announced for today's program, we'd like to discuss the four points I suggested today. That is why I would like to make a procedural proposal to act today and vote after 19th, 21st or 24th hour. I submit this procedural proposal on behalf of all five coalition clubs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Of course, I note your proposals and the one that is procedural means that we vote our votes and our sittings even after 19 and 21 o'clock. I therefore call on my colleague and colleagues from the lobby because I am voting immediately on the procedural proposal. Initiating... [[A note from the diaper.]] After 21st and 24th hours, to be exact, only 19th and 21st, 24th and 24th were proposed by President Jakob. I therefore initiate the vote on this procedural proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3 registered 169 present, for 85, against 73. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that today we will be taking action, in a memorable way, after the 19th, 21st, or 24th hour. It is therefore now registered with the priority right of President Schillerová, followed by President Okamura. And I ask you once again, colleagues, to keep your voice down or go into the lobby, if you want to address anything and talk, so that we can hear the proposals on the agenda of the President's meeting. [[The noise continues.]] So I'm asking you once again, and I'm asking you to wait a little longer, Madam President, because I still feel the sound level is too high. I therefore ask you once again, colleagues from all over the hall, also from the left and right, and from the middle. I don't know how to say this anymore, so I don't like to approach it here because I don't want to scare the ministers who don't know I'm picking up the bell, they're sitting back so they don't get scared, but please keep it down again. [[The President is ringing the bell.]] Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I don't think the secretary or the ministers are gonna be scared of anything. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a new item called the Tax Package, as the first item of today's day, and allow me to justify it. A year and a half promises! A year and a half convincing the five-wheelers to present honest consolidation, the honest consolidation they went to the election with, the honest consolidation that they kept talking about was inevitable. Unfortunately, their promises were once again dissolved as steam over the pot, and the government presented a purely tax package, a tax package raising taxes of CZK 70 billion a year, certainly not an honest consolidation on the spending side, which we all expected on the basis of the notorious promises of the Minister of Finance Stanjury. Our amazement and confusion so now gradually passes into disillusionment and dismay. It shows that the best part of the entire consolidation was the magnificent and pompous performance of this package, which culminated in Hollywood's arrival of Prime Minister Fiala at kramářův's villa. All that was missing was the red carpet. This pompous performance really hit the eye, especially by comparing it with the refinement of individual measures. But gradually back to the package. Prime Minister Fiala and Minister of Finance Stanjura, from the election until now, have been telling the mantra that the recovery of public finances will be based on the spending side of two thirds, and from one third it will be a measure on the revenue side. They repeated it during their famous press conference, while the presentation was shining over their heads, which at first glance showed the ratio of spending to income 50-50. And when I looked into those numbers in detail, I found that it was actually 20 to 80, which means that only 20 percent of the time Minister Stanjura was going to cut the spending side, and 80 percent would stick by raising taxes for all of us, at a time when we were under a potential product, at a time when we were not using all the production capacity. That might as well throw us into a recession. After all, he already knows this ODS tactic from the past. It's not a recovery package, and it's definitely not an austerity package. It's a tax package, and pretty wild. The largest part of the package presented is the alleged cut-off of subsidies. Of the total Minister Stanjura presented CZK 147 billion, the cut-off of subsidies represents almost CZK 55 billion, i.e. a third. [[The lady is looking for an O.R.]] Do we have a minister here? We still have, okay? [[President: Yes, we have the Minister here.]] Thank you. A third, then. Under normal circumstances, I would welcome such a significant cut, I would certainly be prepared to discuss the item after the item for the YES parliamentary club, and in some cases we would definitely agree. Unfortunately, what the government has presented is an ordinary marketing trick, another marketing move in order to disguise dishonestly done work. This trick was looking at a five-calice package like straw from the boots from the first moment of his grand performance at Straka Academy. This fundamental pillar of this alleged consolidation, which is to represent one whole third of it, is illuminated only on seven non-speaking lines in the analytical material from the Ministry of Finance's workshop, which has about 14 pages. [[14.30 hours]] The information that is gradually coming to the surface confirmed these concerns in full. Again, I must add that unfortunately, the words of Minister Stanjura, when, on an honest question by a journalist, he can give a specific example of a subsidy, which he simply cancels, correspond that he can, but he won't. He won't, he won't. They say it's no shame that he's as mysterious as the castle in the Carpathians, claims the main architect of the package, Mr. Stanjura. Mr. Secretary, that's a shame. It's a shame that you won't introduce us to a plan to cut specific grant titles, even if you don't. I believe that this is even your duty, if you want the public to see your package as credible. At the moment, its credibility is zero. In fact, there are only two ways to explain this statement and the confusion of Minister Stanjura: either a third of the entire consolidation is painted without a real basis, or the version applies that it really thinks that the ministers of this government are under pressure from lobbyists and could succumb to that pressure. If an important member of this government thinks that his colleagues from the government will succumb to lobbyists' pressure, this government is in even greater trouble than I originally thought, and as you well know, I do not think very highly of this five-police. The biggest savings of subsidies are to be at the Ministry of Industry and Trade and this is where it gets interesting, because the Ministry of Industry and Trade is already clear where it collects most of this money. And now I quote: "The basis of these savings will be the change in the mechanism of reimbursement of operating support for supported energy sources, said the press spokesperson of the MIT." So that means that people are going to have to pay the renewables charge again, which was canceled here last year with the big pomp. On the one hand, either the abolition of the RES charges was only a temporary measure that was due until 2023, and therefore cannot be part of a permanent consolidation package, or there is another possibility that no one in the Ministers knows what number the package makers have included in their table. Once again, it is confirmed that this is an unfair game with the citizens of this country. Dear Government - well, Mr Vice Prime Minister, more government members are not here or I do not see them - gradually, as you had to go into crisis communication mode, you started to fabulate and argue that the amount of the subsidy will be really lower than the planned return of the OZ fee. [[He's looking around, there's only Minister Jurečka in the hall.]] But you are de facto planning to do something where the Czech Republic is in real danger of arbitration and when you will put the Czech Republic before possible litigation. The actual amount of the subsidy is given by law and the entitlement to this subsidy should be 20 years. For the record, I'm not lobbying for any group here. We are in favour of taking subsidies to the solar barons. But as a lawyer, I'm horrified that there's a five-calice willing to violate valid legislation. One more time. It can eventually turn out the way it did with the famous windfall tax of Minister Stanjura, when the five-calice bended the law, when the five-calice got into the budget items that were not supposed to be there, because the state budget is to be created on the basis of valid and effective legislation. It was no longer a problem for Minister Stanjura to put 100 billion items into the state budget despite the lack of legislation on this tax. After all, I have repeatedly given this tax-related mess, and I will continue to remind you, because the five-calice should learn from its fundamental problems. Unfortunately, that is not the case at all. Moreover, Minister Stanjur, if the charges for renewable resources were increased, you will, of course, only choose from the people again. And so there can really be no dispute that this is really a purely tax package. In other chapters, which Minister Stanjura has hidden under the name Entrepreneurship in the grant business, cuts are absolutely essential in the chapters of the Ministry of Education and in the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development. But cutbacks on subsidies for school lunches and clubs, for the repair of playgrounds or for college investment projects are, in my opinion, not really to be called a fight against subsidy business. You claim that you want to cut off the transport subsidies of 6 billion, and the Prime Minister in the same interview, asking how traffic will be saved, will answer that the coalition wants to invest more in infrastructure. So what is it, Your Grace? You only take one hand so you can add more with the other hand? So again accounting tricks, nothing but accounting tricks and budget tricks. And so I can go on. On the spending side outside the subsidies, which I therefore do not recognise to you, because we know absolutely nothing about them, and what we know is essentially unacceptable, you only have a savings of 10 billion on public pay and 10 billion on the operation of the state. Reduction of the operating expenditure of each individual resort by 10 billion, which means 5 percent of the operating expenditure of each resort, I recognise to you. It's no glory, every year I cut 5% in covid, before covid 10 percent. I'll give you that. On the other hand, is the 5% savings on current spending really the small and efficient state that you keep talking about in the ODS, but which you never, ever managed to introduce? Out of the electoral rhetoric, the ODS seemed to really cut into the state's spending and make it more effective. That's something I would support as former finance secretary. But even before the election, I knew that this task was not as easy as it might seem at first sight. However, I must say again that I support this measure, but unfortunately I do not know anything more about it. Minister Stanjura has provided us with detailed information on this measure in the range of one inexplicable sentence. I am also willing to support the reduction of the total amount of salaries in the public sector when the state, the authorities, the digitalisation, the cancellation of agendas are made more effective. Unfortunately, the analytical material from the Ministry of Finance here also describes this step only in one sentence as part of the justification for this almost 10 billion-dollar cut. The Minister of Finance's media communication will also be extremely interesting at this point. Even today, we can hear from the government that there will be neither redundancies nor wage cuts. In addition, I would like to remind you that the five koalice is planning - and this House has approved this - to raise the salaries of teachers to 1.3 times the average wage, with the effects of this measure on public budgets higher than the planned wage savings over the years 2023 and 2022. You're gonna need $15 billion to do it, and you want to cut 10. How do you do that? Explain. You promised you wouldn't touch the salaries of police officers, firefighters, teachers, you'd even have to add to them according to the law, soldiers, so I could continue. That means she's saving five-wheelers so much, she's getting paid. I don't see any logic there. So saving on the spending side is de facto quite minimal, and idle promises of planned two thirds of spending are as false as five-calice promises of non-tax increases. [[14.40 hours]] And we are already coming to the very essence of this package, namely income, because what was presented to us last week is the tax package. I'll start positive. We have repeatedly demanded an increase in vice taxes. At this point we meet, I mean no we meet, we meet. Increasing taxes on alcohol, gambling, tobacco products is a reasonable step today and has our full support. The mistake is that it is not until 2024 and 2025 that increases are due to occur. This could have been revenue, which could already have been part of the budget in 2023, today. We have repeatedly offered you this support on these points. Unfortunately, because of the Minister of Finance's distinctive working pace, we have already lost these precious billions this year. Other revenue items for me - for us, for our club - are completely unacceptable at the moment. The increase in real estate tax by almost 10 billion will cost housing to all Czech citizens, and it must be said that this expensive Czech citizens will feel this in a period of falling inflation and in a period of housing crisis. I prefer not to mention the promises that are traceable in public resources about not raising real estate taxes. Let the government explain that to its constituents. Five-calice probably has a theory that ownership housing is an unnecessary luxury, because otherwise I cannot explain my efforts to completely destroy the building savings system, a system that has been operating here for years, a system that is one of the few really used financial instruments to create savings that hundreds of thousands of households use in the Czech Republic. We were willing to talk about the parameters of building savings, but the actual liquidation is unacceptable for us. A separate chapter is for us the abolition of kindergarten fees, when one of the main long-term problems of the Czech Republic is demographic development. Even the long-term sustainability of public finances is primarily dependent on the development of a demographic situation. Thus, this measure in the form of the abolition of kindergarten fees is a step particularly shortsighted. Speaking of shortsightedness, I must mention your completely antisocial behavior towards students, when according to the ODS and its finance minister, there are students who earn more than 17,000 in their studies, either tax frauds or sloppy ones. On the contrary, and I can't believe I have to explain this to the government that has the head of the professor and the former rector of my alma mater. In the Czech Republic, we have thousands of students who cannot be financially supported by their families. Often they are students from economically weaker families or, for example, students who no longer have parents. They're not sloppy, they're just working on their future, and they're still studying while they're working. lajdák is Minister of Finance Stanjura, because in 500 days he failed his homework and did not find savings on the operation of the state as promised. A completely separate chapter is changes in VAT. This step really is hard for me to understand. For one thing, we are in a bizarre situation that a number of items will get more expensive, for example, water, heat, crafts, holiday accommodation, fitness, and so I could continue, culture. At the same time, the government will lose about CZK 13 billion by a slight reduction in VAT on food, which will not show up at all in household spending - and it will, of course, transfer it to the margins of chains. The three VAT rates did not create a major problem for anybody, and given the situation in 2023, this step is absolutely incomprehensible. Incomprehensible! Every day I'm confronted with the rate of baby water? Now it's 21%, basic. At what rate will a number of other items, soft drinks? And so I could go on. It's just that the devil is really hidden in detail. Send it to a commentary, send it! Let all the unions, the chambers, the public, the opposition look into your plans, and let us know that you have no idea that the chaos that has followed your rule for a year and a half is simply continuing. Dear colleagues, the tax package that she has introduced to us, so far only very patty and superficially, the government of Petr Fiala, will bring nothing positive for families but also companies. Unfortunately, it is not about any reasonable consolidation presented by the YES movement. This is primarily about increasing the tax burden and violating all the promises the five-wheelers made to their voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u9	Vice-President Havlíček would now appear. I just want to check with President Okamura that he agrees to the deal? [[Ambassador Okamura agrees.]] So then the President of Okamura follows. Only - Vice-President Skopeček votes with a replacement card of 20, so this announcement will still be made. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u10	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the government, I do not know if we have yet breathed out of that failed press conference on Thursday, which was a show of arrogance, a show of secrecy, and unfortunately I must say, even a show of incredible lies. One thing is that no doubt every rational person has to agree that savings are being made in the state sphere, and President Schillerová has said a number of things here where we are able to agree with this government. The second thing is that this government is once again clouding the steps it is preparing under the bubble of incredible marketing. The end of the grant business - that sounds beautiful and I must congratulate the PR agency that prepared it for the government, because undoubtedly every judge must nod his head about it, perhaps even applaud it. 54 billion crowns a year, Minister Stanjura claims that this will save him. That, too, is a thing that deserves respect in its own way if... if it weren't for everything else. Why? Because if we look at the detail of the so-called 54 billion, we find that this is not a savings in the so-called subsidy business at all. These may be some savings in the public sphere, but they do not relate to what we may all imagine as a grant business, and that is that entrepreneurs will not receive support for new projects. Why won't they get it? Well, because from the national sources that we are dealing with here, they're practically not getting any more support. If they get any support, it's from European sources, and if we reject it, which of course any minister can do, then the state budget will have no benefit. It is purely about rejecting European money. And the fact that today it is said that 20 billion will be saved at the Ministry of Industry and Trade - I must say that I know very well the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and I guarantee you that there can be perhaps CZK 1 billion taken there, from the so-called support of energy-intensive companies thanks to high emission allowances prices, which, among other things, was supported by this government, I mean by the high price of emission allowances, it was done within the Presidency that their number would be reduced, that is, their price will increase. If it explains it to entrepreneurs who will pay more for emission allowances - yes, here I agree, government, here you have saved or you can save 1 billion crowns, the rest cannot - unless I take a few tens of millions of crowns to a so-called small shop. [[14.50 hours]] The fact that you drew on paper that you would save CZK 18 billion from the so-called renewables fees is nothing but a scam. You have two choices, government. Either the fees that have to be paid, you transfer to the customer, that means consumers, or companies, as it was before the energy crisis - and you remember that we pointed out that in the time of the energy crisis, this is to be removed from consumers and companies, and it is to be the state, when you already messed up in 2010, to drink it yourself, that is, it has to go to him, that is, that is, 18 billion crowns. And even though you've been delaying it for nine months, you've finally done it, which is a good step and we're assessing it positively, so today you have two options: either you return it to those customers, which you finally said in the fall of 2022, you said that this will only be carried on your shoulders until 2023, to the end, I mean, that means electricity will get expensive again, for households and for companies. And if you don't want to do that, and I would understand that you don't want to do that, then you already have one option, that's that you're not going to pay those who are legally entitled to it, which I can't imagine at all - not because I applauded these subsidies, they were wrongly set in 2010, 2011, that's the tunnel of 600 billion crowns, which will bring us less than 3% of electricity. You are not to blame, nor are we, when we look at who was here in the government in 2006 to 2010 who messed this up. But in any case, this support has been set up, so the big parks have been built, then it has been sold several times, and at the moment there is no other way than to cash it out by 2030. Yes, we were the ones who tried to limit the profits of those who were making this, and you may remember, in the autumn of 2021, we initiated - it was a little earlier, but then we discussed it here in the House, even in our government - that, in simple terms, their margins would be reduced. And do you remember who was against it back then? Yes, that's right, representatives of the five-wheelers, especially the representatives of the SPOL. At the time, you wanted these investors to have higher margins. But I'm already waving my hand over it. It's history. In any case, what I'm saying is that today, if you refuse to pay it off, it's not that you're risking it, but you're definitely going into a thousand lawsuits and you don't have a chance to win this because at that point, it would happen that one company after another would start falling because they wouldn't be able to pay off loans and wouldn't be able to tighten what they bought properly, even with the government's contested decision. So at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, if you don't go against the law, you don't have a chance to do that. And even if you went against the law and did it, don't be mad at me, it has nothing to do with ending the grant business. I'm taking the new one to the projects, and I'm taking it to the fact that the companies are going to be in a more fair environment, no matter what we call it. This is an old rifle. You also want to save on the subsidy business at the Ministry of Transport. Yes, it can be, but let's not call it a grant business. You decided to take CZK 6 billion to the Ministry of Transport next year. You're entitled to that, but please name it exactly. It will go less to the regions by 2 billion, it will probably go less to maintenance and probably to investments, or it will get mixed up, I can no longer say how Minister Kupka will set up in the finals, but these 6 billion CZK will eventually not go to transport constructions or to their maintenance. Please, is there some kind of grant business? Is there some naughty businessman out there who's pumping money? No, it will reduce public transport costs. I'm just saying that only this year you are short of CZK 30 billion for transport and you still haven't solved the difference between the budget and the cover from the state budget and the fee. You're short 30 billion crowns and you want to borrow them at interest. Furthermore, you want to save on the grant business CZK 5 billion in total through the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Education. Yes, you can do that, too. It is public communication, it is schools, it is kindergartens, it is public buildings, it is senior homes. Please, do you see any grant business here? I'm not saying you can't withdraw expenses anywhere, but it has nothing to do with any grant business. You have to tell the municipalities, you have to tell the county, you have to tell everyone who wanted to build a school or a kindergarten. Yes, it will. And let's consider whether it makes sense or doesn't make sense. And then we're in agriculture. This is the only area where they can partly agree with you, although not with the sum of CZK 10 billion, because you will not even find it there, because even in agriculture agricultural and food operators receive money mainly from European funds, and those billion units that go there from the state budget do not give CZK 10 billion, but I admit, you can find billion units here provided you simply don't give them the money and make them entities today that are less competitive with foreign competitors, in other words, at the expense of agricultural, food self-sufficiency. We have to answer that economically, but financially, because you are the accounting government - confirming that you can find billions of units here. And we're done. Then you have 13 billion crowns left, which you do not know how to deal with today, or where you will withdraw them from the so-called grant business. And I guarantee you, there's no place to download them at this time. If you are thinking of Grantová or Technological Agency, there are resources for universities, for researchers and, for example, for the Academy of Sciences workplaces, but beware, these are already contracted amounts for at least this year, for next year and partly for 2025. If you want to take them from those institutes of the Academy of Sciences, then you can only do it sometime since 2025. You have to explain to them why you stopped supporting science. But this is once again an economic matter that is wrong from my point of view - who stops supporting science, gets into big trouble over the course of a few years, will not create added value here, but that is the thing, once again, I say to another discussion. The important thing is that you don't have it here either, and certainly not to call it a grant business - unless we think that the constitutions of the Academy of Sciences that do basic research are some kind of business. What do I mean by all this? I'm not saying you can't save money, I'm not saying you can't take it out on public services, on public investment, but please nicely, let's not call it saving on the basis of a grant business, because it has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u11	If I've noted this correctly, Mr Vice-President, you haven't made any new proposals because... I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u12	I'm sorry. Yeah, I was so hot, I forgot to say it, so please make it like the first point today, and that's the Donation Business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u13	So, the title of Donation Business, thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura will now speak with priority, followed by Mr Stržínek, who is next on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose, as the first item in today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, an item entitled The Discussion of the draft tax package and the pension reform of the Purple Government. The Fialův Government, by raising taxes in its tax package, will rob citizens of more money. The government of Petr Fiala is constantly falling electoral preferences, unbearably deepening the state budget deficit. It ended in the deficit of CZK 166.2 billion this March, which is the worst result of the first quarter since the Czech Republic was founded. In April it reached the volume of CZK 200 billion, the deficit. The structure and parameters of the state budget of the SPD have long been critical of the SPD movement and its significant shortcomings are also noted by the Supreme Audit Office in its annual reports. The government did nothing more than one year after the start of the energy and food crisis, thereby allowing astronomical inflation, supporting its growth, and then came only last week with the so-called consolidation recovery package in which it presented its proposals in quotation marks by raising taxes and quoting pension reform. Of course, the package is neither consolidation nor recovery, and pension reform is no reform. According to the government, a significant increase in taxes is expected to bring CZK 31 billion into the budget next year and another year CZK 70 billion. This is the money that the government will withdraw from the pockets of all Czech citizens and companies. Before the election of the coalition of SPOLU, which is ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, stated, respectively, that it will not increase taxes, so it is a violation, a flagrant violation of the pre-election promises, and we have also heard here constantly how they are prepared to consolidate public finances without raising taxes - and the fact that they have escaped. The SPD is convinced that savings on the part of the state are the solution, and the government must start with it first and not address the deficit of the state budget by reducing pension balances and by increasing taxes on the whole. On average, the expenditure of individual ministries needs to be reduced by 10 per cent, not by introducing a comprehensive tax reform that will have a negative impact on all citizens of the Czech Republic. The government does not solve the causes, but it only extinguishes the consequences of its own irresponsible activity. In this way, the government transfers its incompetence in the form of a burden of government debt to decent and working citizens rather than, for example, finally taxing multinational foreign corporations that make tax-free hundreds of billion-dollar profits and dividends from the Czech Republic each year. The increase in VAT on beer from 10 to 21 percent is then the last imaginary nail to the coffin of rural pubs. [[15.00 hours]] The SPD movement also rejects government pension reform, which scandalously reduces pensions and increases retirement age. The set of proposals, which Petr Fiala's government calls pension reform, does not represent any real reform. It is only a hot needle stitched set of partial parametric adjustments to the Pension Insurance Act. The government intends to increase retirement age by up to two months a year from 2030 and new pensions are expected to decrease significantly since 2025. In addition, proper remuneration of pensions is to be reduced from next year, and the Fialův Government wants to abolish them. However, this will only lead to a further decline in real pensions and will damage the low-income pensioners in particular. At the same time, the government is tightening the conditions for early retirement, which will severely harm citizens who have worked since they were 18 years old, but also college students. However, the government does not come up with any real reform measures to strengthen the sustainability of our pension system and ensure decent pensions for current and future pensioners. The SPD movement has already presented such proposals publicly and we have many of them prepared in legislative form. We will also present our specific proposals on Friday at the meeting between the SPD and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs behind the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. We have introduced them here several times, but apparently the government does not have any reform steps prepared, I have to say in a positive direction, so of course we will again remind the Minister of our concrete proposals. This is mainly about strong systemic support for the birth rate in working families and an effective pro-family policy that will ensure sufficient pension insurance payers in the long term. Furthermore, it is a reform of execution systems which will allow persons in executions to work as regular employees for decent wages and thus provide up to CZK 12 billion in pension insurance every year. The government's set of pension proposals is absolutely unacceptable to us as a whole and we will do everything we can to ensure that it is never approved in this form. So let me just repeat that, as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose, on behalf of the SPD, a point entitled The discussion of the draft tax package and the pension reform of the Fialův Government, because really after the government has demonstrated that it wants to pull tens of billions of CZK out of its pockets, even though citizens do not have money, and the government has caused record inflation, which is higher than the average of the European Union, we simply cannot wait for the government to present it in some legislative form at the end of June. Moreover, not all of these government proposals are legislative, that they will even be passing through the House. That's why we're immediately proposing it, as we've set up here on the agenda for the meeting. I see that there is also agreement with the other opposition party, so I think that you should approach this so that we can discuss your harmful proposals publicly here in front of citizens, so that it is not just outside the walls of the Strakův Academy in your government, but that it is really in front of the citizens, so that everyone can take a picture of what you are up to, what a huge negative you are about to do to citizens. As a second matter for the agenda here, I have a proposal - and it is a counterproposal against what Mr Jakob proposed here - and I would like to propose on Wednesday that we discuss, as the first two points, the aid to citizens in debt, the so-called gracious summer, these are the two bills, paragraph 101, print 377, and paragraph 102, print 384, so this is an extraordinary remission of social security premiums and the extraordinary remission and termination of some tax debts, because it is simply important for the SPD that we help, return the system and level the system not only with the executions, but also with regard to the various debts, so that the debts are paid, but on the other hand, it cannot be liquidation for those citizens that they cannot return to normal life, so I propose these two points first on Wednesday. And as the third point, we would have included Czech Television, paragraph 98, print 263. This is my counter-proposal to vote on this, because the government coalition of Petr Fiala here for tomorrow proposes that I explain to citizens that it is a priority for you to give the first point here on Wednesday, not to help people to somehow level out their debt solutions, to help people in debt, but to you, political control of Czech Television and Czech Radio is a priority. That's why the government's five-wheelers are pushing tomorrow to discuss the political mastery of the media councils of Czech Television and Czech Radio as the first item. On the contrary, we as the SPD want and it is a priority for us to discuss the laws of the so-called graceful summer, which means helping people in debt, and that is why we want these laws to be the first and second points to help people in debt. And we need to put it a little deeper into context. Today at the political grémium before the House meeting, where representatives of all the political parties in the House meet, so we have already - the opposition has already suggested it to be this way, and the government representatives have said no. Government representatives said no, we are the first to deal with the political domination of Czech television by the government of five coalitions. And I've seen it before, because for us there was the chairman of the SPD's Radim Fiala, and we immediately knew what the government coalition was going to do, we've already seen the atmosphere where some representatives of the government coalition might start to say - and I've already seen it here - that the SPD doesn't want to help people in debt and that we're actually stalling the negotiation of the law to help people in debt because we're holding back and we don't want the law to rule the Czech Television politically. No, that's why I'm saying this in public, that's not it. You purposely put on Wednesday, you want to put on the first point the political domination of Czech television, for which you deliberately gave the so-called merciful summer - helping people in debt, because you know that we as opposition will prevent the political domination of Czech television and Czech radio, so that you can then say on TV and everywhere that because of the SPD, due to the opposition, it does not help people in debt. So in order to prevent this lie here - because some of the representatives of the government coalition, which I have heard, have already seen how they are preparing this tactic, and I have experience here from the House, so I know how it is with you - so I'm telling you straight here, we want to discuss helping people in debt, which is why we want to put it first and second in tomorrow's meeting on Wednesday, that's the priority, not the political domination of Czech television, which is the priority of Fialův's government five-police. And after we've discussed helping people in debt, put on the Czech TV. That's the point. So I'm saying in advance that no one in the government coalition can say it's something else. That's my proposal, and that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u15	Yes, I've noted your proposals and your counterproposals. Mr Stržínek will now speak with his proposal on the agenda, followed by Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is no secret that the five-calice is going to increase the real estate tax. Part of the money collected would go to the revenue of the state budget, i.e. not only to the municipalities, as is the case so far. This property tax increase will affect a huge group of people. Ownership and cooperative housing has 80 percent of households in the Czech Republic, so 80 percent of the population will increase the real estate tax. It is a tax on flats, family houses, garages, chats and others, i.e. property for which they have used already once taxed money and often worked on it all their lives, even more, often still pay it back to this day. In some cities and municipalities, property tax will be doubled as a result of the local coefficient. For me, it's a heist in broad daylight. It's punishing honest people for having their own place. [[15.10 hours]] The increase in property tax is rejected by many organizations, including the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. They reject the fundamental proposal that part of the tax return should be part of the revenue of the state budget. I refuse to do so as mayor of 20 thousand city. In the long run, we are trying to keep this tax at a reasonable level, currently we have a local coefficient set to level 2. We decide on the amount of this tax, or the coefficient, and I am clearly in favour of maintaining this system. The law gives us relatively wide scope in a wide range of coefficients, but it is still a free decision of self-government, not a dictation of government. You argue that there are costs involved in the collection of this tax. I am arguing to you that the performance of the delegation, i.e. the performance of the state administration, is also not reimbursed to the municipalities in full. So what's the Minister of Finance's plan? Will the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes be amended? I ask for an explanation of why you want to rob people who, after paying one of the highest energy prices in Europe and the most expensive food far and wide, are confronted directly with one of the highest inflations in the European Union, and instead of looking for ways to help them, you are harming them in this way. So I'm going to ask for a point called Explanation of the planned change in real estate tax as a third point today after the already fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová will now come forward, Mr Berkovec will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Minister of Health, the only one - I have written here by the Dear Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a solid inclusion of the point - I say this in advance - on today's fourth point or after three points, which are from Gremia, so as the fourth point. I may be surprised to propose a proposal for a government coalition where I am also signed up. This is a proposal from fellow Members of Mr Bernard, President Pekarová Adamová Richterová, Martin Baxa and myself, Jana Pastuchová, to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012, the Civil Code, and it is available to you under the House press 241. It should be discussed at first reading, which is why I have decided to include today because there are three first readings, so I think we could include this one too. This point, as I said, is included on the agenda of this meeting, but I would like us to really get to it, which, unfortunately, is not possible other than its firm inclusion. Otherwise, he'll still be pushed away and we'll never get to him. It's a so-called marriage for all. I fully understand and respect that there is no consensus in the coalition on this proposal, or on this issue, but it is not in opposition parties either. But that shouldn't stop us. The draft amendment of this law lies, if we are really talking about this parliamentary term in the House, from 3. 6. 2022. The Government took a neutral position on it on 1 July last year and a month later, the President of the Chamber of Deputies recommended it for discussion. Moreover, I also had the opportunity to hear the President's statement, which expressed himself in the sense that this law should also be discussed, so I think there is nothing to prevent it. I would like to remind you that marriage has been discussed several times for all in the House. In April 2021, this proposal was identical to what lies here in the House today. That's when we got to the House's support at first reading, and that's as far as we got. I've been a co-president since the beginning, three parliamentary term, a petitioner of this law, now, so I guess my position is clear. However, I would like to appeal to all colleagues, co-president and all, or at least to those who have a similar view as I do, or we who are the appellants, to allow this proposal to be discussed. For example, Minister Bartoš called for the adoption of the House's clear position on the issue of marriage to LGBT couples in November 2018. He is now Minister of the Government Party, so he certainly has a great opportunity to adopt this amendment. In this context, the pirát also referred to one of the Constitutional Court's findings, which says, and I quote: "The obligation of the state to respect the right to family life is not simply that it must not prevent persons having family ties from living together and these relationships are realized. In the event that a family life based on a legal basis already exists between persons, it is the duty of all public authorities to act in such a way that this relationship can develop, and the legal guarantees that protect the relationship between the child and his parents must be respected." Why am I putting this at today's meeting or at this time? It is almost a day exactly a year from the moment the issue of marriage was discussed for all in the formation of the coalition contract of the current government parties. Madam Vice-President Olga Richterová said at the time, and I quote: "It is already in exaggeration to say that we have kind of denied part of the government in terms of equality and citizens' rights. " She said this because the coalition parties agreed that the issue of marriage for all and their differing views on it would not be a reason for the eventual termination of the coalition agreement. We have heard that the amendment to the law will be tabled and that coalition Members can vote on it according to their conscience. We didn't just hear it from the Pirates, so did KDU-ČSL President Jurečka. The present proposal is also supported by the President of the House, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, and I hope that she will support his firm inclusion and thus allow it to be discussed. So, in short, the proposal is here, it meets all the requirements, and it's just waiting for us to discuss it. If we don't put him in place firmly, we probably won't get to him at this meeting or at the next one. I think we should finally say yes or no once, but don't hide behind it, do not delay it, decide and then express our opinion. I think that now that you actually have it, or you don't, but you agreed in the coalition that it's not a problem for you to discuss this law, we could include it, and I think let's finally open it. It's a three-term election. [[15.20 hours]] I therefore appeal to fellow petitioners and to all those who have promised before the elections that the law of marriage will encourage everyone to make it possible for them to discuss this day as the fourth point. If we don't do it or you don't do it, I think the LGBT community can see it as a kind of treachery from your side or our side, because it's not just enough to submit the proposal, but it needs to be opened, started talking about it, but more importantly to start discussing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u19	Mr Berkovec is therefore now signed in and Mrs Hanzlíková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President, dear representatives of the Government, dear fellow Members, honourable Members, I wish you a good day. Let me propose a point called the Government to liquidate free press using a proposal to increase VAT from 10 to 21 per cent, i.e. by more than 100 per cent. It's got two angles to it. On the one hand, my personal experience - I am a trained book printer, a trained polygraph at the Secondary Industrial School of Graphics, so I actually know the entire production process in all printing techniques from the production process to the printing process to the finishing production and distribution process. The second experience is the experience of a writing editor, whether it was in journals, in Hospodářské noviny, for example, where I did the usual rumor, news, or in magazines, especially motorist or traveler character, where I did the so-called operation special. And that third experience, and believe me, it's an experience to be priceless, it's the experience of the publisher of his own newspaper. The world of motorbikes, when for several years I have been able to resist German publishing houses that have seized this area of motor press. These are the reasons why I am making this proposal. When you realize how energy has grown lately and, of course, with this paper price, this increase from 10 to 21 percent is really symbolically almost the last nail in the coffin. Now, let me quote the opinion of a lady who is the President of the Board of Directors of the Union of Publishers - the Union of Publishers brings together 43 members. It is Mrs Libuše Šmuclerová: "The journals were and are an anchor for readers to learn about misinformation and the Internet. This threatens to increase the consumption of messages from the Internet, where technology platforms bear no responsibility for content distributed on the Internet and the editorial responsibility of the publisher is not." According to the Union, it has no logic to divide newspapers and magazines and books into different VAT rates. Yes, that's right: journals, classic publishing houses, they have some order, they have some moral code, they have some platform, they have some correctness, so there's no way that's possible on the Internet today, that you'll basically write almost anything. If books today receive 0 percent VAT - magazines and journals, they also help the education and development of culture. I may add a few more information as is true in the surrounding countries: so the VAT for the press is 7 percent in Germany, 8 percent in Poland, 4 percent in Italy and Spain, and 2.1 percent in France. They are, according to Mrs Libuše Šmuclerová... in fact, the media have a key role to play in democracy. It's always been said that the press is the seventh power, and I think that's still true, because even today, electronic media, television quotes what the press is writing. Of course, the distribution time is a little longer, but it's actually a certainty and certainty of distribution anywhere on this planet, so I think and believe that the press is still the seventh power. And let me add a few more information that represents the Union of Publishers, which is against this increase. As I was saying, it represents 43 members, it issues more than 420 printed titles and more than 200 web titles. Its members employ more than 5,000 employees, which is meant in editorial offices, printers and periodic press distributions. And information on population intervention: printed titles have an intervention of 83 percent of the population between 12 and 79 years of age and account for more than 89 percent of the total volume of gross advertising revenues of publishers. So I so took the liberty of quoting Mrs Libuša Šmuclerová, who, in my opinion, very pregnantly formulated the Union's reasons, and I am in complete agreement with them, so that point is called The Government is liquidating the free press using a proposal to increase VAT from 10 to 21 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u21	But you're not asking for a solid assignment? I didn't notice you had a suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u22	After that point, Mrs Pastuchová, that is the fifth point, yes. [[President: As a fifth point today, therefore.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u23	So now Mrs Hanzlíková will speak on the agenda and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a new item called Delaying pension payments and related problems. One of the major problems that up to thousands of seniors have been dealing with in recent months is the delay in dealing with pension applications and their payout. This is because the Czech Social Security Administration has been significantly overloaded since last year and has not been able to handle all demands on time. The seniors concerned are waiting for a decision to grant an old-age pension and to pay their first pension several months after the end of the 90-day period. Of course, the biggest problem is solved by people who have no financial reserves, with which they would somehow survive while waiting for the first payout. It also includes persons who have been dealing with serious health problems that make it impossible for them to carry out their work over a longer period of time before the application is made, and they are in financial difficulties for many months. It is important to recall that these are not cases where people either ask late or do not provide the necessary documentation, and therefore the delay would arise for these reasons. I have already consulted the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with this problem, and I have been assured that they obviously know about this problem and that it is being addressed, but it is not yet seen in practice that the deadlines are being reduced. In addition, in recent weeks many seniors have turned to me with another related problem, and it is the fact that they are contacted by health insurance companies to register debt in a few months. These seniors stop paying their insurance because of their pension application and the state has not yet started paying for them. Their debt is really incurred, and they are mostly amounts as reported by the seniors themselves, around CZK 15,000, but they are also threatened with penalty payments, of course. It is a big problem for these seniors just because they are held somewhere as debtors, but, of course, for some, such a financial amount is a really big problem. It is not possible to leave these people without any help, it is necessary for the MPSV to deal with this matter urgently. Therefore, I beg you to include this point as the sixth point today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Vondráček is now ready with his proposal, followed by Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. First of all, the technical part, I don't want to make it any harder for the President. I propose a new point, and that new point would be called Abuse of public funds in the field of communication and government propaganda. I guess I didn't write the whole thing on that written application, so once again: Abuse of public funds in the field of communication and government propaganda. [[15.30 hours]] If this new point is to be included, then I also propose its firm classification, first on Wednesday 17. 5th as the first point. If this is not possible, then after the fixed points on Wednesday 17. 5, and if that doesn't happen, then the third option on Thursday at 11.00. And now for the very contents of my proposal. You know, this government is justifiably criticized for miscommunication, for inability to communicate. After all, even today published research by Median for Czech Radio says that this government is not involved in communication. How else can we interpret that almost 70 percent of people think that the proposed changes will not solve the rising debt of the state? Not much to say that, according to the ministers, this is a key issue for this government! After all, the efficiency of government communication is best demonstrated by the fact that the government of Petr Fiala is perceived by people as the worst ever since the cabinet of his colleague Petr Nečas in 2013. It flows from the current CVVM survey, and I would remark that the previous government of Andrej Babiš also received better grades. On the one hand, these catastrophic communication results, but on the other hand, tens of millions are flying from the state budget to buy advertising space in the media, to marketing advice, to pay for various communication agencies and other companies that supply these services. It is obvious that no one in the government is discussing communication and its effectiveness. We have one interesting thing here. Just for the sake of joy, I've been taking contracts from the register of contracts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs since the beginning of this year. Only the ministry of Minister Jurečka spent, and I say spent, not invested, spent almost 40 million crowns in communication from the beginning of this year, to be exact, CZK 38.9 million for communication. And the result? According to STEM's research, which also paid for by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, only 35 percent of people today feel at least quite familiar with the pension system. That's definitely not a dizzying number. I ask the Members present whether they have even registered any campaign and awareness of pension reform for nearly CZK 40 million? Among the Curiosities of Orders of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are certainly media training for people from the Press Department of the Ministry or consultation of the campaign for pension reform for almost CZK 300,000, which was produced and also invoiced simultaneously by another advertising agency. You can find a lot of such peculiarities. On the one hand, ministers are preaching the need for savings, but on the other hand, their authorities are not following this. Speaking of campaigns, I'd also like to draw attention to another interesting point. As early as September, the government ordered, by chance, its famous campaign against expensiveness at the time of the presidential campaign. The media drew attention to the fact that the owners of the supply agency Jan I Vidím, Rudolf Mihle and Martin Kurzweil are charged with tax cuts. This, however, does not bother anyone and cheerfully with this agency, which according to Diary N was involved in a chain of entities that have invoiced each other for fictitious services, has continued to cooperate. From August to today, this agency has come to order for more than 55 million, with the most frequent client at this agency being the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of the Interior. Perhaps it is worth recalling some of the big investments in advertising that this state has made in the last few months, and I would really like to know which of these campaigns you have noticed. The Ministry of Health spent CZK 50 million on a vaccination campaign. Have you seen her, or do you still remember the tečka you said was wrong? By the way, on the same amount of money that the Department of Health spent today, there was a period. I have no doubt that you saw a campaign to promote data boxes, at the end of which there was total chaos at the beginning of the year, when surprised people discovered that the state had set up a data box without their knowledge. I also have no doubt about the effectiveness of Czech Post customer satisfaction research, which went to just CZK 40 million. And what we're going to talk about, surely the prize for the most efficient campaign has won an ad against the cost that this government has taken from the state budget of CZK 24 million. I have just quoted several campaigns that are worth more than CZK 100 million. However, these costs are not complete. You still have to add to them the costs of people who work in ministries. To be clear, I am not criticizing the government for investing in communication in principle, but for not being able to explain it, and we are talking about a government that boasted that communication is the first place for it! She even set up several government agents and special departments at the ministries. I'm sure you'll remember my speech on this subject, let it be KRIT, let it be a government liaison for communication and so on. But the real face was revealed quickly by the government, I think, when it first started with censorship last year, and shortly thereafter, it also talked about dividing the media. The highlight was the confession of a former government media agent today, who admitted that there is no transparent key for the distribution of money at the Office of the Government. In other words, the Authority decided on the choice of media according to only non-transparable criteria in a better case. This was also confirmed by the supplier agency, whose representative for Diník N just added that they only got a list of media to buy from the office. It is repeatedly confirmed that this government only knows how to communicate with its supporters, and it is still wrong. All those who are not fanatical supporters remain entirely away from their attention. The paradox of all this is that they find it difficult to hire experts who are trying to advise the government on how to communicate with these people, but ministers still don't hear and do not listen to the advice. I agreed to this contribution when I happened to be in the register of contracts to the contract, also from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is where the Ministry ordered testing of graphical visuals campaign for pension reform, testing articles for pension reform, online emotion detection using neuromodes, quantified overall emotional response, delivery of results for various subgroups including insight from respondents. So the Ministry is ordering a campaign, he's already ordering how it affects the recipients of this campaign, but beware, it's all for public funds! I understand when a communication campaign is conducted under extraordinary circumstances, such as support for vaccination, but the problem is that this government and this government coalition are becoming a method, a common method, that the ministries spend millions of crowns on some campaigns, then they have to measure how the campaigns work, how these people fall, and those people pay for it all! I think that it is the role of politicians to explain their steps, that the politician, the minister, explain the essence of pension reform, and not to try to get inside the heads of taxpayers for their own money and to measure it. I think that this is a negative trend that we should stop because it is tens of millions of crowns, and we should probably set some rules in this area because there are no rules. [[15.40 hours]] Every minister and ministry is somehow buying it in their own budget, spending a lot of money promoting themselves, but we're all gonna pay for it. I feel the question very urgent. I will, of course, try to interpelise individual ministers, but how many have we had by interpelling since the beginning of the parliamentary term? Now we need them after a very long time we will have them. Will I be drawn? I won't? And this is the thing when the government is going to wipe the citizens of this country out of hundreds of crowns and spend tens of millions of crowns on hopeful campaigns itself, it's a serious issue. I think it belongs on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, it belongs here for us to discuss this matter and, where appropriate, draw a conclusion. For this reason, I have taken advantage of the fact that there is a new meeting, I do not have a time limit, I could not be impressed, so at least the item will be voted on, and I am curious to see how the various ministers will say so. Of course, I'd like any reaction, but I suppose there'll be one big silence. Thank you all for your support and for your vote on this point. It is a discussion, but I think it is urgent and that this Chamber of Deputies deserves it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u27	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we've taken turns in meeting management. As the next enrollment, Professor Válková. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will follow up on what my dear fellow Member of the ANO movement said in the third parliamentary term, Jana Pastuchová, when she turned your attention, I assume that we all see this as an apolitical topic, however, a topic that we have been able to, for almost three years as an agent of the Government for human rights, but we have not discussed it, and it is nothing less and nothing more than a debate that should be conducted here over the House press 241, over the possibility of anchoring the marriage institute for identical couples into our legal system, namely the Civil Code. It is, of course, a challenge for all of us. You know that I, along with other colleagues, have tabled a draft constitutional law on a national referendum. If we had it, we could definitely ask the public, and I think the answer would be interesting for us. I think that the resulting time would be more and more in favour of anchoring the marriage institute for the same sex couples. After all, I had the opportunity in 2021 to verify this quite well in the election campaign, because even in senior institutions, I was surprised how the question of the perception of the possibility of anchoring this institute into our legal order moved me, and how our older fellow citizens perceive it - if it is not for church marriages, that is what they have always told me, but not for church marriages, it must not apply there. I said: Yes, that wouldn't even apply, because only the Church can decide what it admits and doesn't admit, and I doubt that churches would allow marriages for equal sexual couples. But whoever chooses a civil marriage, as in such typical countries, I would say very much to Catholic countries such as Spain or Ireland, that possibility exists. And that is why I think that it is not only legitimate, but also in view of the fact that - and I dare to estimate this also during the third parliamentary term - it will vote across the political parties, so this will not be about coalition and opposition. After all, this is a coalition proposal, or the parliamentary proposal that we have here, the House press 241, but rather according to where our ideas are headed, I want to say about the future, what we will admit and not admit in the Czech Republic. So I'm joining the proposal, but since it seems to me a little sudden to put it in today, I'd leave some time space there, because the discussion will certainly be very intense, and that's why I would suggest putting this point on Wednesday 17. 5. after all fixed points or Thursday 18. 5. So here I will compete with my predecessor, Mr Radek Vondráček, but I really wrote it down, just like he did at 11 o'clock, as one of the first points that we will discuss after the interviews. So these are two proposals, either after all the fixed points of May 17th, or tomorrow, or Thursday, May 18th, at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u29	Madam, let me just ask you what you will name this point. I knew what you were talking about, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u30	It's the anchoring of a marriage institute for same-sex couples in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u31	Yes, thank you. Mr Kubíček will follow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna get a little grounded. I would like to place a point called Malina Group's problems - insolvency. As you have all read in the press, Raspberry Group is one of the largest companies that has offered the installation of photovoltaics for citizens of the Czech Republic, it is currently coming into the insolvency framework and remains after it about 3 670 unsatisfied customers, when these customers have paid large advances and they are not even sure that their photovoltaics will be completed, nor that they will get their money, and even that their photovoltaics will not be removed from their home. I would draw attention to the slight parallel we experienced here a year and a half ago, and it was called the crash of Bohemia Energa by Mr. Písařík. I know it's probably incoherent, because today the problems affect a few thousand people, at that time it has touched more than a million, but we should start doing something, because the legitimate expectations of the government to install photovoltaics on the roofs of the family houses and the Green Savings Initiative, which offered them a relatively significant subsidy, have led them to actually start asking for this service and to implement it in some way. I would point out that the problem is not only with the quoted Malina Group, it is what has come to light, but information shows that the problems affect a much larger number of companies and begin to touch them. Indeed, those people, with legitimate expectations, in the case of a small investment, which was counted at 60 percent of the original amount in Malina Group, and the expectations of paying Green Savings, are getting into quite a lot of trouble, because I know that a lot of people even borrowed to make the initial investment. We're supposed to have something to stand up to. We have the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Industry here, and I'm getting e-mails from those people who start turning to the members of the Economic Committee. They consider this a setback because they do not understand how it is possible that in what happened with Bohemia Energy, and the state intervened very late, that at this next stage more or less the release and transition from fossil fuels to clean resources, the state cannot ensure that people get to their devices or their money. I don't think it's a very simple matter, so I'm going to ask for this point. I'll make two offers, either on Thursday fixed at 12 o'clock or as the first point on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u33	First point on Friday or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u34	On Friday or Thursday at 12.00 as a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u35	Thursday 12.00 and the second option Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u37	Friday, you don't care when? First point. Thank you. There's not supposed to be a proper meeting on Friday, we have an emergency meeting on Friday, so there's no way to put it on that day. So Thursday, 12 hours, or...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u38	So I'd keep it for Thursday, 12 hours, then I'll sign up for another week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u39	Thursday, 12 hours, and the title of that point is Raspberry Group's problems - insolvency. Thank you. [[15.50 hours]] Next in the order of the agenda will be Mr Marek Novák, followed by Jiří Mašek. So, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for your support in the priority of paragraph 81. This is the House Press 273, an amendment to the Payment Act, and this is another point behind already firmly classified. This is a change that has proved to be very necessary, especially recently. The current state of affairs of both self-employed persons and companies seeking to set up a bank account now discriminates significantly in some parameters. It is indeed the right of entrepreneurs to set up bank accounts, just as today a citizen has the right to have a bank account. It would be good for us to show our entrepreneurs that we care about having rights in addition to legal obligations, and one of them is the right to a bank account. In fact, we now have a paradox in the market where an entrepreneur fulfills all legal obligations in order to start his activity, but perhaps his field of activity may not like the bank itself and it will not open an account to him. He can't send money to the Czech Social Security Administration either. And imagine, my fellow Members, that even without increasing his taxes and taxes. He just doesn't have an account, he doesn't have a way to send the money. One reason why this problem may occur is precisely the approaching implementation of the MiCA Regulation, which is intended to protect consumers from certain risks related to investments in cryptoactivity and to help them avoid fraudulent systems. At present, consumers have only very limited rights to protection or redress, especially when transactions take place outside the EU. We already have entrepreneurs in this area that are located and actually want to pay taxes in the Czech Republic. Thanks to the new rules that we will implement, crypto-activity service providers will have to comply with strict requirements to protect consumers' wallets and, if they lose so-called crypto-activity investors, they will be legally responsible for this. Cryptoact traders, like suppliers to the defense industry, are now a thorn in the eye of banks. So even the MICA regulation, which we will soon have here in plenary, will not solve the problem, therefore this proposal. While at this point commercial banks are obliged to set up an account for a natural person without reservation, the establishment of a corporate account is linked to the type of business and in some cases is not granted to the entities concerned. Let's please help them. These are companies that, according to the banks, have a problematic business subject, but these companies are covered by various permits, licenses and other documents that allow them to do business in the field, so even the bank, if not the state, does not stand in the way, i.e. outside of their foreign mothers, because we don't really have any Czech banks here anymore. There is therefore really no further additional reason to continue bullying companies under other conditions and to allow them to do so. The reason banks do not open accounts may stem from their mother's internal instructions, which in the context of European green taxonomy want to limit a certain part of production and business. I do not think that banks should decide who and how to do business on the Czech market in terms of business within the framework of compliance with the law. Another possible reason may also be concern about Czech competition or overprotectiveness in relation to the digital economy, yes, precisely the digital economy that the current government allegedly supports. Then let's support her. Another important thing is the interest of the state in trouble-free entrepreneurship, job creation, thus contributions to the social system, the creation of a taxpayer and enrichment of the labour market. Movement in company accounts is also a means of minimizing the existence of finished money, tax evasion and various optimizations. I believe, my friends, that I have given you enough arguments to include this issue in the House plenary, and I am asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Let me get this straight: that's a new point, isn't it? That's the transfer of an existing point, and you propose to place it as the first point after the fixed ones today?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u42	As the first point after firmly ranked today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u43	Today, yes, thank you. If I'm not mistaken, you have one more application. [[Member Novak: That's right.]] So tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u44	So thank you again for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm here to ask you to pre-schedule one more point, that's point 74, print 250. This is the issue of the Act on certain rights of persons with disabilities, which use the dog's escort with special training. I'm asking for the first point for a fixed rank, as well as today. It is the fact that this treatment is based directly on personal experience of disabled people and companies who are dealing with the issue of dogs with special training. For me, it is finally necessary to help not only people with guide dogs, but also persons with assistance and therapeutic dogs, because discrimination is at this very categorization. Let us show those citizens who need help that we care about the quality of their lives, and please discuss this proposal, which I, together with my colleagues, submitted to this House a year ago. Surely we all agree that our concern to disabled fellow citizens should be at least as much as possible and bearable as possible help in their difficult life destiny, especially now, in this very difficult time. Therefore, I hope and believe in your support because the special training of these dogs reduces the safety risks and other aspects of animal behaviour, which could otherwise justify excluding their access to public spaces or public public transport resources. A dog with special training is a dog intended for accompanying a disabled person. It is specially selected and trained, so it is characterized by different character characteristics and behaviour than dogs without training, so we have no reason to fear them, nor to prevent them from accompanying people who need them, and therefore the differences need to be taken into account. As for the other thing in the legislation, the definition of the term dog with special training and designation of the subject entitled to training is precisely defined, because there is not yet a uniform system in the Czech Republic to evaluate the quality of training or to check the skills and abilities of the dog being trained. In practice, we often encounter complaints about the quality of trained dogs in various training subjects. We would have removed this standard, too. There is also no system for setting professional qualification or material-technical requirements and criteria for conducting dog training with special training in the Czech Republic. And for that reason, the quality of training can be different and sometimes insufficient. [[16.00 hours]] If the State is to fulfil the role of a quality guarantor of training, it has basically the only way to do so today, and the fastest way to do so is by establishing the conditions for membership of a training body in an international organisation which also has its own mechanism of continuous monitoring of compliance with the set training standards. That's what the proposal contains. The main thing is to ensure the entry of people with disabilities accompanied by a dog with special training in specified public spaces and means of public transport, so it is simple. But today it's not that simple for those disabled people. In this context it is necessary to define in particular the concept of a dog with special training as well as the premises into which the entry of persons with disabilities accompanied by a dog with special training is to be made possible. For many of our fellow citizens, this adjustment is not only desirable, but also very necessary precisely so that they can live a little quality life. It will really help them improve their lives without the state investing a single crown, costing nothing at all, and we will only help people. That is why I believe that you will support the negotiation of this law. Thank you so much for this support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u45	Let me get this straight, you proposed a reposition of the point, namely paragraph 74, House press 250, the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and you want to discuss it today first after the fixed points? [[The Member agrees.]] Thank you very much, so we have an understanding. The next one will be on the agenda of the meeting, Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, would I like to add a point on the Freeway Stamp, is it a road or an environmental charge? The reason for this classification is the discussion of an increase in the price of the motorway stamp, which was proposed for CZK 2,300 per year, for the year-round stamp. The means obtained by the sale of motorway signs go, inter alia, to maintenance, repair and construction of motorways together with other means. What is interesting is that for electric cars the price is 0 and for hybrids the price is CZK 577 per year, which is 25 percent of the annual fee. I believe that there is no need to stimulate the purchase of electric cars and hybrids in this way, because it is already overcome by what we have done in Europe, I say this a little ironically, by stopping the production of internal combustion engines after a few years, so there will be nothing left for those people to buy a new vehicle. At the same time, we need to realize that we're actually helping whom we're helping. At the same time, the consolidation package under discussion has shown that low-income and medium-income families are the most burdened. In this case, we're going the same way, and on the other hand, the benefit here will be obtained by the high-income, those who can afford expensive electric cars and expensive hybrids, while these vehicles are among the heavier ones in the category of vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes. I think it is necessary to open up a debate on this point, and I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, to include this point on Thursday after the discussion of the item presented here by Mr Kubíček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u47	Sorry, what point is that? [[The MP says off the microphone: that was Raspberry and insolvency.]] Thursday, after discussing the issue of Raspberry Group - insolvency. But he may not be approved during the vote, so you need to give some relevant direct time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u48	So order in this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u49	After fixed points, maybe, or?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u50	Yes, after the fixed points on Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u51	I'll see you Thursday after the fixed points. This was Mr Mašek and Mr Milan Brázdil will now be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u52	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, remember? It was not so long ago that we warned on that occasion when the government took 14 billion from the health sector: Don't do this, government, money will be missing to make health care good and available. She disobeyed! Well, okay, but now she's noticed. Zbyněk Stanjura noticed it, the Minister of Health noticed it, and they found that people, when they have nowhere to go, whom to turn to, have no children, no practitioners, no many doctors, no availability of health care is manifest by simply going where they will be provided. Do you know where that is? It's in the emergency room, in the emergency room, in the emergency room, in the emergency room, and the low-level part is actually the emergency room. They're there, they're waiting, and even the doctors, the nurses, they've got a lot going on. And so the government noticed, and they want to, so now they're dealing with an increase in the fee. So they took 14 billion a moment ago, and now they say, "You guys, you're gonna pay for this, because you're gonna have to pay extra to be served in that emergency room." That's how we got here! But how does this guy solve it? The government doesn't do anything, she raises the charges, people have to pay it. But how does this person handle it? Well, he doesn't want to pay the fees, he's already put enough into the health service, he's already paid enough, so what's he gonna do? He's gonna want to avoid it, but he's gonna want to be treated. How does he avoid it? He'll call the medical rescue services of 14 individual counties, where he is. In other words, he doesn't really need urgent care, he has a relatively stable vital function, meaning breathing, consciousness, heart attack, but he doesn't want to pay the entry fee or the emergency fee, he won't want it - it's already happening - so he calls. Dispatch, dispatch is in a very difficult situation and they're handling it over the phone - there's just nothing left, we're going there. And I'm getting to the merit. So, as the medical emergency services are being abused today - and you know it, the minister knows it, he wanted to deal with it, only you didn't allow it, I asked repeatedly - as the ambulance is being abused, so she's being abused not only by people, but by whom? Institutions! Not only are we not in time to treat these patients, take them away, we have a lot to do, we are, by the way, the smallest part of the IZS, but as we manage, and this adds to the abuse of institutions. The police of the Czech Republic will call to see if the person is drunk and can go to the shelter. The city police will call for her. She'll call a youth home, a drunken young boy, if she can stay there or what to do with it. She's gonna make a phone call - I don't know - the prison service, that there's something there, that there's a medic there, that's not there. They are not, so the rescue services solve it and drive across the Republic, do everything possible, and also miss. And so it happens that even the really needed person does not get the help in time, and that is wrong. And I would like to ask you repeatedly: Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow what the Minister of Health wants to be dealt with here in order to deal with the medical emergency services as a basic component of the IRS, the smallest component, with the smallest number of people, but with the largest number of exits that are beginning to be on the brink. And I would like you to allow the debate on the origin - and now I will say it - of the Czech Health Rescue Service. You all know there's a pretty far-out war between Russia and Ukraine, okay, but what if something bad happens to us, in the bigger, I don't mean war, but something catastrophic. And driving 14 ambulances, 14 different things, really. [[16.10 hours]] You don't believe me? Once you visit an ambulance in that county or the other, you'll find that one day a doctor will arrive, then only a paramedic, then maybe just a transfer will arrive, because they're already busy, now they're otherwise rewarded, otherwise dressed, otherwise equipped, otherwise... everything differently. Once a paramedic's on epilepsy, once a doctor's on it, everything's different. And I'd like it to be the same way those firefighters have it, so they can have a single move on the goal, so they can have it as cops, so we can be just as equipped to just be state. I won't be long. I want to ask you, just to allow this discussion. Last time, they said, "You can do that on the Health Committee." Well, I'd like you to say, or rather, ministers, we want to deal with it, we'll deal with it, it's not that complicated. To make sure it wasn't 14 times different, it would mean assigning the folder, the basic IZS file, the most sophisticated IZS file, to some kind of ministry. It's very difficult to say how? It's gonna be... We don't take it away from the regions, but let's try to manage it at least from some ministry, even the Ministry of Interior or Health, it doesn't matter whether it's a mass problem involving a lot of people, so that it can be dealt with at state level, like the Fire Rescue Corps and the police. I'm begging you once more. It's not politics. Each of you, each of you, one day when you go to Prague, you've all seen traffic accidents, and people on the highways sometimes have problems, why they should be once - and they all paid the same to the system - once served the same way, the other, the second time without a doctor, the third time with a doctor, the fourth time they won't even be there, because they're somewhere else, for example, an ambulance is being abused because it looks at the dead, because no one is able to do it today - somewhere, somewhere not. Please, let's unite. Let's make the rules so that we rescuers are as satisfied as the firemen and the Police of the Czech Republic are at least as satisfied. My proposal, which is the Medical Rescue Service of the Czech Republic, I explained what I was trying to do. And the assignment... You know, I've said many times, so let's put it there, there. I actually want you to make it possible, I don't know how to do it, and I'm willing to put it up to the last, different, any point, just to allow it to be discussed here so that Minister Válek would say, "Yeah, I want it and I'll do it like that. Just please make it possible, not in the name of me, I will be forgotten, but in the name of you when you have problems, and in the name of all the patients who would like to be equally served in case of loss of vitality. Mr President, I would therefore like to ask you if we could just include this on the agenda. That, if we put it somewhere, maybe then you'll agree on the Gremia. If we put this in place, at least there might be a discussion about it, or on the agenda of this meeting, in other words, you're going to say, "Well, that's the end of the day." All right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u53	The last point in your application is today. That's not true? You just want to go to a meeting program?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u54	You said it. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u55	No, I didn't say that. You wrote it, Mr. Ambassador, in your application for the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u56	Yes, I wrote it. You're right. And I agree with that. Here's to the program and the final point of the day. If you'll allow... You know what? We can do this at 2:00 a.m. just to discuss it. Anyone else who doesn't enjoy it, you can go. So that's the final point of today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u57	Thank you for the clarification. Mrs Fischerová is next in line. Mr Berki will be ready, which is the last application for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, many Czech citizens are currently facing a crisis of inaccessibility of housing. In the first half of last year, housing costs, such as gas and energy prices, increased to their historical maximum. This price increase is fundamentally affecting the pensioners, of which a large part is already at risk of poverty. This adds record real estate prices and, as a result, housing for many families, including young families with children, is almost unavailable. In such a situation, I find it unacceptable for the government to increase property tax dramatically. Increasing this tax will most likely affect the most vulnerable, i.e. pensioners who have spent many years saving on their own property, now live in it and are able to pay record prices for gas and energy. The government wants to strike another blow to those elderly people who are already on the poverty line by increasing their housing-related expenditure, i.e. property tax. Consider that about two thirds of the elderly live in their own property, from which they pay taxes. I fear an increase in property tax will result in pensioners being forced to sell their property, in which they have lived their whole lives and bred their children, because they will not be able to afford to pay increased taxes on them. I am not even talking about the fact that the tax increase will be hard on families who will be added to the high cost of acquiring their own housing to a significant increase in real estate tax. The government is attacking pensioners and families who want to live in their own, even twice. Not only does it want to increase their property tax to double, but it also wants to increase taxes every year following inflation. Instead of addressing the causes of inflation and record price increases, the government will double our citizens' inflation, both from price growth and tax growth. I leave aside that by raising taxes, the government violates its pre-election vows and the promises it made last year. I therefore propose the inclusion of a new point entitled The deepening of the crisis of housing availability by the government of Petr Fiala as the third point of today's negotiating day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u59	Thank you, Madame, and now the last one on the agenda, Mr Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u60	Dear Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I would like to put forward a counterclaim on Mrs Pastuchová's proposal for marriage for all. It is paragraph 70, House Press 241, and I propose to include it as the first one today after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u61	Thank you very much. This is point 70, House Press 241, which is a short-term Civil Code, but we know what it is, you want to discuss it today as the first point after the fixed points, and it is a proposal against Mrs Pastuchová, and actually in a way as a counterproposal to Mrs Válková, because it is the same topic. I've started because it's the last application for a meeting so far. I'm asking if anyone's still applying for the meeting? If that is not the case, we shall proceed slowly to the vote. In the meantime, before my colleagues arrive from the lobby, I'm gonna load up my apologies. Mr Bašta apologizes for the whole day for working reasons, Mrs Berkovcová Jana apologizes for the whole day on a foreign trip, Vice-President Dostálová Klára from 15.30 to 16.30 for health reasons - cancels the apology, Mr Lacina Jan apologises from 18 hours on health grounds, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová Jana apologises from 14 to 17 hours on work grounds. Minister Nekula Zdeněk apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons and Minister Válek from 14.30 for working reasons. [[16.20 hours]] We should now vote first on proposals on which there was a consensus in the Gremium. However, there is one question which points to President Okamura, who proposed in his speech a counter-proposal for Mr Jakob's proposal that the remission of penalty payments and the remission of tax debts, paragraph 101 and 102, should be after the Czech Television and Czech Radio law, on which there was a consensus on the Grémium. It's something other than the Grémium agreement. So I want to ask President Okamura if he insists? Then we'd have to adjust the grémia agreement by these two points of yours. [[Mr Okamura's agreement with the presidents off the microphone.]] If you can specify, do you accept the agreement from the Gremium, or do you want to separate it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u62	We don't accept it - and we've already said it on the Gremium, but the opposition said it there that we don't want the first point of Czech television to be on Wednesday. That's the government's priority. We want the first two points to be helping people in debt, a graceful summer, and here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u63	I'm sorry, I don't understand you at all. I will ask that there be silence in the hall, and, if necessary, President Jakob is watching what is going on, so that we know and clarify what we are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u64	Like me to watch? I'm watching it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u65	I was just asking to be quiet in the room because you didn't understand, Mr. Chairman, I didn't hear what you said. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u66	Because President Jakob's proposal here was that on Wednesday the first point be that point 97, print 263, Czech Television, and the second and third point be that point 102, 101, this is a gracious summer, helping people in debt. I gave the counterproposal in response here to President Jakob's speech that we propose that the first two points be given, because for us priority is to help people in debt, a gracious summer, so that the first two points be points 101 and 102 and as a third point be the Czech Television. I took the floor after President Jakoba, so it's actually counterproposal against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u67	Okay, so I don't want this to get messy, I'm gonna ask you two or three minutes to break, we're gonna figure out how we're gonna deal with this, we're gonna vote not to mess it up right from the start. So I'm declaring maybe... okay, five-minute break, so we don't prolong it. It's 16.22. I'm declaring a break until 16.27. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.22 to 16.27 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is 4:27 p.m., the break has passed. We're going to vote on the agenda for our meeting. First, we will vote on the proposals from Gremium as a whole, and then we will continue with the individual proposals, as has been said in the past time. So the first vote is on proposals from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number four, 170 Members were enrolled, 159 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed in the way that individual Members have made their proposals. First, we will vote on the proposal... [[There's a tap in the desk.]] I've heard the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. First, we will vote on President Jakob's proposal, this is the House Press 249 on public procurement, and it is whether we will put this item on the agenda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number five, 164 Members have been voted in favour, 87 voting against 59. The motion was accepted. [[16.30 hours]] The next proposal is the proposal by President Jakob to include a point, the House press 311, on the protection of public health. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number six, 165 Members were enrolled, 163 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. We will now vote first on the inclusion of Parliament's press of 444, the amendment to the Consumer Tax Act. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number seven, 166 Members voted in favour of 89, against 75. The motion was accepted. And now we would vote on the inclusion of this point as the first point in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 166 Members voted in favour of 89, against 76. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is Mr Jakob's proposal, item 23, the amendment to the State Enterprise Act, and we will vote on its inclusion as the second item on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number nine, 166 Members voted in favour of 87, against 62. The motion was accepted. Further proposal from the President jakoba is to include item 19, House press 423, labor code, as the third point of today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 166 Members were enrolled, 165 voted in favour, and 1. The motion was accepted. The next item is also the proposal by President Jakob, namely the appeal of Mr Köppl, a member of the Council on Radio and Television, and it is proposed that this item be discussed at 18 o'clock today, or... at 18 o'clock at first. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 166 Members were voted in, 88 voted in, 78 opposed. The proposal was adopted, so we will not continue to vote to make it the fourth point. The next item proposed by President Jakob is item 97, House press 263, on Czech Television and Czech Radio, tomorrow, which means the first point on Wednesday, but here we have a counterproposal for President Jakob's proposal from President Okamura, who proposes this point as the third point tomorrow. So first, we will vote on the counter-proposal of President Okamura to discuss this point as a third item tomorrow. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 12, 166 Members have been voted in favour, 77 voted in favour, 81 voted against. The motion was denied. We will therefore now vote on President Jakob's original proposal for this point, paragraph 97, to be discussed tomorrow, that is, on Wednesday, as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 13, 166 Members were voted in, 88 voted in, 77 opposed. The motion was accepted. Another proposal by President Jakob is to discuss item 9, House press 165, the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic, tomorrow, Wednesday, as the fourth point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 14, 166 Members voted in favour of 89, against 76. The motion was accepted. Next, we will vote on President Schillerová's proposal to include a new item called the Tax Package. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 15, 166 Members voted in favour of 78, against 82. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal for the inclusion of a new item is the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček for the inclusion of a point under the name of Donation Business. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a new point in our negotiations? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 16, 166 Members voted in favour of 78, against 85. The motion was denied. The next item on which we will vote is the proposal to include a new item by President Okamura and the title of the item is proposed as a discussion of the draft tax package and the pension reform of the Fialův Government. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this item being put on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 17, 166 Members voted in favour of 77, against 84. The motion was denied. Now - but we have dealt with this, that is, the next was the motion by President Okamura to forgive the penalty and debt relief, but we have resolved this by voting as a counterproposal to President Jakoba, so we will move on to further proposals. Another proposal was made by Mr Stržínek, he proposed as a new point Explanation of the planned increase in real estate tax. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this item being placed on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 18, 167 Members voted in favour of 79, against 75. The motion was denied. Now there is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal, the House press number 70, the Civil Code, and to discuss it as the fourth point today, however, we had a counter-proposal from Mr Berki, and there was a proposal from Professor Válková, that is actually the same point. So we would first vote as a counter-proposal of Mr Berki's proposal, which so formulated him, so that this point, or paragraph 70, of the House Press 241, should be discussed today as the first point after the fixed points. [[16.40 hours]] We will vote on Mr Berki proposal. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 19, 166 Members were voted in, 96 voted in favour, against 48. The motion was accepted. This is unvoting points for Mrs Pastuchová and Professor Válková. The next item on which we will decide is Mr Berkovec's proposal for a new item entitled The Government is liquidating the free press by means of proposals to increase VAT from 10 to 21 percent. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 20, 167 Members voted in favour of 79, against 82. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Hanzlíková's proposal for a new item entitled Late pension payments and related problems. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of putting such a proposal on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 21, 167 Members have been voted in favour, 74 votes against 83. The motion was denied. We will continue with Mr Vondráček's proposal, which proposes a new item entitled Misuse of public funds in the field of communication and government propaganda. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 22, 167 Members voted in favour of 78, against 81. The motion was denied. We should now vote in the order of Mrs Válková's motion, but we have dealt with this in voting against Mr Berki's proposal, so we are moving on. The next proposal is Mr Kubíček's proposal. It is a proposal for a new point called Malina Group Problems - insolvency. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 23, 167 Members have been voted in favour, 79 voting against 71. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Novák's proposal, item 81, House press 273, payment, and the proposal is that we discuss it as the first point after the fixed points today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 24, 167 Members voted in favour of 78, against 84. The motion was denied. The next proposal is also a proposal by Mr Novák. This is point 74, House Press 250, the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and the Member proposes that we place it as the first point after the fixed points of today's meeting day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 25, 167 Members have been voted in favour, 78 voting against 79. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Mašek's proposal for a new point, namely a point entitled Freeway Stamp - a road and environmental charge. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting such a point on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 26, 167 Members have been voted in favour, 79 voted in favour, 72 voted out. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Brázdil's proposal for a new item entitled Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting such a point on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 27, 168 Members voted in favour of 79, against 78. The motion was denied. Another and last one, if I am not mistaken, is the proposal by Mrs Fischerová, a proposal for a new point entitled The deepening of the crisis in the availability of housing by the government of Petr Fiala. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting such a point on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 28, 168 Members voted in favour of 80, against 84. The motion was denied. Before we vote on the programme as a whole, I want to ask if all the proposals have been voted on? This is the Member. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In the 19th vote, I am high for voting in favour, but I voted against it. I question the vote on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u69	You are questioning the vote, so we will vote on the objection. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 29, 168 Members voted in favour of 163, against 1. Objection was at... [[There are voices coming from the diaper.]] Can only the Member specify the specification of that point, so we know? [[From the diaper, it echoes: Marriage for all.]] Marriage for all, i.e. the vote of Mr Berki's motion. Okay, okay. We will vote on this proposal again. This is President Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u70	I am very sorry to the Honored House and my colleague Benešík, but I consider the challenge of voting ten votes later to be somewhat bizarre and I will ask that we take a three-minute break and see if it makes sense, because it's a scary precedent that looks like no one's gonna mind at this point, but then someone here is gonna beat him over my head. [[A round of applause from the ANO movement.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u71	So I'm declaring a five-minute break. It's 16.49, I'll meet you at 16.54. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 16.49 to 16.54 hours.]] It's 16.54 o'clock, break's over. I'll ask you to take your seats and keep your voice down. This is Mr. Benešík. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been present with a meeting of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs on this vote. I acknowledge, within the framework of the purity of the Rules of Procedure and its interpretation, that I have applied quite late to question the vote, because there have been several votes since then. I insist I vote no, I've got a pro on high. However, my vote in this regard has not made any decision, my vote has not decided anything, so I withdraw what I said I was questioning the vote. However, for the tape screen: at paragraph 19, I voted against, at the junkyard I have a pro. I will no longer question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-16-ps2021-065-01-000-000.u73	Thank you. In this case, I declare the vote on the objection to confusion and what has been voted on is true. Nevertheless, we still have to vote on the programme as a whole. I want to ask, because the points and proposals for changes were quite enough, did we vote on all the proposals to include new points in the programme or to change them in terms of the programme? I guess so, no one's questioning it. We will therefore now vote on the programme as a whole. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 30, 168 Members voted in favour of 85, against 18. The motion was accepted. That's how we dealt with the meeting program and move on to approved points. The first is
