ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in the context of armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws /German press 374/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka, and I beg you, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u2	Thank you. Good evening, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. This amendment to the law is being presented here to address further progress in the area of aid and support for Ukrainian refugees who came to us in connection with Putinův's regime's war aggression in Ukraine...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask especially the right part of the hall to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u4	Since we adopted last year's legislative regulation, which initially envisaged the basic framework of temporary protection until the end of March 2023, we subsequently made some parametric changes in the amendments of lex Ukraine II to IV, so this amendment brings an adjustment that will address not only the current situation from the perspective of the existing practice of the comments of cities, municipalities, regions, individual resorts, NGOs, but will also respond to this effective and effective assistance after 31 March 2023. So when I sum up in the list of specific points that will be implemented by this amendment, it is an extension of the validity of the Act for one year, i.e. until 31 March 2024. The aim of the proposal is also to balance the higher addressability of the batch support and the ability of the labour offices to ensure the administration of batch claims in real time and in a given situation. That means, we're counting on the modifications we make, so we're doing them in a special scheme for Ukrainian war refugees. We are doing them outside the regime of the current social system, which is normally intended for citizens of the Czech Republic, and we are doing this primarily with the aim of simple administration, which will run within the digital interface, as today we are running a solidarity contribution and humanitarian benefit for Ukrainian refugees, which today is used more than 90 percent in digital submission. The specific form of security benefits for temporary protection foreigners remains, i.e. the humanitarian benefit and contribution to the solidarity household. Financial support for housing and accommodation of persons with temporary protection will be ensured by taking into account the deductible housing costs, the amount of which depends on the number of persons and the type of housing or accommodation, the deductible housing costs will be determined by a government regulation. The humanitarian benefit of the minimum will be for a maximum period of 150 days after temporary protection, then reduced to the level of the existential minimum if the person does not have objective barriers to participation in the labour market, i.e. is not under 18 or over 65 years of age or is not under 26 years of age or is not pregnant or disabled or cares for a child under six years of age or for a disabled person. Due to the specific needs of a person with temporary protection, the humanitarian benefit will be increased by multiplying the basic amount - 1.5 times that for a disabled person and 1,2 times that for children from 6 to 10 years. A common benefit will be provided to persons who live together and who jointly pay the cost of their needs, their income and property ratios will be assessed together. The contribution to the solidarity household will be provided from July 2023 only if foreigners with temporary protection share accommodation with the accommodation provider. If the whole apartment is rented out, housing costs will already be compensated from their income including humanitarian benefits directly with temporary protection foreigners. [[18.00 hours]] Amendment to Act No. 211/2000 Coll., on the State Investment Support Fund as amended - this part was prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development in lex Ukraine again. This part will allow the Fund's funds to be used to support the provision of a long-term vacant flat to a rent or sublease to a person with temporary protection. Amendment to Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on non-medical health professions, as amended - this section was prepared by the Ministry of Health, it will simplify the obtaining of qualifications in the field of speech. Amendment to Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment as amended - here will be supplemented by the information and registration obligation of employers who employ foreigners and persons with temporary protection. Amendment to Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance as amended - there will be an extension of the range of data kept in the register of insured persons and in the register of employers. The administrator will be the Czech Social Security Administration, the data on temporary protection workers, specifying the method of notification of the employee's entry into employment when they are temporary protection workers. Furthermore, the amendment to Act No. 65/2022 Coll., on certain measures in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended. This is where the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Health prepared this section. A time limit for providing free accommodation is proposed for a maximum period of 150 days from the date of granting temporary protection. This is not true, however, for so-called vulnerable persons whose circle is aligned with the vulnerable for humanitarian benefit purposes. This is very important in order to make it clear to ensure that there cannot be a situation for vulnerable population groups that they are thrown out on the street, so-called popular. The provision of facilities for registration of persons applying for temporary protection is transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. The provision of emergency accommodation remains in the region. This area was thus consulted and agreed with the Association of Regions, which were and are part of the working team. Creating a network of first contact points, i.e. providing basic health care for patients - foreigners with temporary protection outside medical facilities. Expected impacts of proposed legislation on the state budget, amendment of the Act on Employment and Social Security Measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops. For example, the cost of the humanitarian benefit for October 2022 was CZK 651.2 million, based on 93 000 applications for 142 000 people with temporary protection. For October 2022, the contribution to the solidarity household was paid to some 17,700 beneficiaries - solidarity households, under which approximately 47,000 temporary-protected foreigners were supported, of which approximately two-thirds were in separate accommodation and one-third were in a shared household with the recipient of the allowance. The costs of the contribution to the solidarity household for the month of October, i.e. paid in November, were CZK 161 million. Since the newly adjusted humanitarian benefit is more addressed and responds to the property and income situation of persons with temporary protection, it is assumed that the costs of payment of the humanitarian benefit will continue to be reduced. At this point, the MPSV does not have funds secured within the spending limits of its budget, we are aware of that and, of course, we will be discussing the coverage of these funds with the Ministry of Finance over the next few months as required and as appropriate, how this form of support will be developed in the coming months. As regards the amendment of the Act on the State Investment Support Fund, the amendment does not itself create any implications for the State budget, the specific effects will then be assessed in the context of the reasoning of the Government's regulation laying down the details of the use of the State Investment Support Fund funds for this purpose. The amendment of the Act on certain measures relating to armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops - there will also be costs associated with the takeover and subsequent operation of KACPU. The Ministry of the Interior is estimated at approximately CZK 300 million. Solving the issue of vulnerable persons from the point of view of public health insurance - impact on state budget expenditure in the order of millions of crowns per year at most. Possibility of providing outpatient care in places of residence of persons coming from Ukraine - estimated impact on the public insurance system 9 to 18 million crowns. The effectiveness of the law proposed with exceptions is 1 April 2023. Amendments to Act No. 66/2022 Coll. are proposed with effect on 1 July 2023, with the exception of the provisions on the extension of Act No. 66/2022 Sb., which is proposed to be established on 31 March 2023, and provisions that allow the creation of an information system for the registration of flats for foreigners with temporary protection. Furthermore, the effectiveness of the amendment of Act No. 65/2022 Coll. is proposed on 1 April 2023, with the exception of provisions excluding emergency accommodation, effectiveness from 1 July 2023. The reason for this is to reconcile the effectiveness of the arrangements providing financial support for this type of housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u5	I also thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jiří Navrátil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The Minister has presented the entire government bill, so allow me to summarize that the Government bill, which amends Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops as amended and other related laws under House printing 374, this bill was submitted to the House by the Government on 27 January of this year. The law was sent to Members on the same day, that is to say on 27 January 2023. President of the Chamber of Deputies Markéta Pekarová Adamová decided by decision number 52 to include this press in the draft agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, designated the rapporteur for first reading and proposed to order the Social Policy Committee to be discussed as a guarantee committee. Let me also report that, in the course of the debate, I would like to propose a reduction in the time limit for the negotiation of the law in committees for two days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u7	Thank you, rapporteur, and I will ask you to read this in the general debate so that the proposal can be voted on. Thank you. I am opening a general debate when I am registering three applications and one application with priority rights to give the club an opinion. I will therefore ask Mrs Lucia Šafránková to present the club's position. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just introduce you briefly to the opinion of our SPD MEP, because we welcome the Government finally adopting some of our proposals, which we have been talking about in relation to the residence of Ukrainian refugees in our territory for almost a year, and that it embodied them in the current amendment to this law, which primarily concerns setting the conditions for social support for these people with temporary protection. We acknowledge that the humanitarian benefit for these people will no longer be extensive, but that before it is granted, all the income and property of applicants will be examined, as is the case with Czech applicants for social support and assistance. It is also a step forward in the introduction of the temporary-protection housing register to which humanitarian benefits will be drawn, respectively, relating to the eligible housing costs associated with applications for these benefits. [[18.10 hours]] There are also adjustments aimed at reducing the administrative burden of today's completely overwhelmed labour offices. Too late, but still. It is only a pity that the government has not implemented these proposals much earlier, which would save us a considerable amount of public funds as a state. The SPD movement is for temporary, adequate humanitarian aid to real war refugees, but at the same time we reject any abuse of public money by entities and persons who are not entitled to such assistance and who only inadmissibly parasite and rob the Czech State and taxpayers of real war refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u9	Thank you, too. We will therefore now proceed to the duly signed up for the debate. First will be Mrs Jana Pastuchová, then Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Jiří Navrátil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have studied this proposal very carefully. We got him a week ago, that's right, tomorrow morning at 7:30 p.m., he's gonna be meeting with the Social Policy Committee, and I don't know, I don't want to be personal, but through you, I got a message that Minister Jurečka may be excused here at second reading on Friday. [[The Minister is responding.]] You're gonna be great. That's great. I am going to ask a lot of questions on the committee tomorrow, but I still want to say that we agree with this proposal, but - but - before we pass a good law, and we have said to ourselves on the Committee on Social Policy that we should all discuss this sooner, so that we do not have to make amendments here to approve, that we are the legislators, who will not then deal with questions such as those from the labour authorities that find some mistake in this, so I have a few things, that is "but." I've got the law in front of me with those crossed-out sections that are replaced by something else, and I'm gonna take it one step at a time. In Article 6 (2) (a) of the 1 - I will not read it here, because I am sure the Minister and the rapporteur know this - I would like to ask, what will happen to a foreigner with temporary protection that runs between the Czech Republic and Ukraine? I don't think it's verifiable for the employment authorities. In that case, if they're traveling like this, they probably shouldn't belong under the temporary protection institute, and the employment office can't tell. So that's the Section 6 paragraph. 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) and 2 - for beneficiaries for the purpose of entitlement to benefit and so on. Foreign income is unverifiable, so far. I also asked the Minister about this on the Committee on Social Policy, the Minister told us or talked about the connection with the Ukrainian Ministry, which is allegedly being discussed, so I assume that it is not yet negotiated, let alone technically prepared. I must point out that this income may not only be from Ukraine but also from other countries. In the Czech Republic, this income will be verifiable, but only sometimes and certainly not automatically as the Deputy Trpkoš spoke enthusiastically about it. Labour offices will in any case have to address employers and verify the facts reported by the applicant, so I draw attention again to the great administrative burden of the Labour Office. Or - or - did I not read it there, Minister - will it be on the basis of an honest statement again, and nothing will be verified? I would like to ask that, because then I think that the whole administrative exercise would be unnecessary, and also a little unequal to the citizens of the Czech Republic who have to document their income and property situation. In Article 6 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 3 - I don't know if you have it in front of you, colleagues from other areas may not have to look for it - for the office will again be trouble and work with written calls. Where will they be sent, for example, if one of the addresses is clearly wrong, or if they go electronically? How's the applicant gonna fix it? If there's an error in the application, maybe it is, but what if the address is completely broken up? Next - so and now, that's the thing: we're going to collect revenue - that's Section 6b paragraph... I'm not going to read it - so we're going to get income from abroad. So it doesn't just have to be Ukraine, so now I don't know if you're going to deal with all the ministries where you're going to rely on a citizen of Ukraine who lives here to report all the accounts to you all over the world where he's supposed to be? How are you gonna find out? It seems to me, it seems to me... If there's an honest statement, I don't think it's fair, but I'm worried about how the employment authorities are gonna get the revenue. I was telling you a specific example, I have a Ukrainian family staying since 9 March this year, they're still with us, mom, an astronaut engineer, she's still on her business, she's paying for health insurance, she's not reported to the employment office, and she's teaching children under ten years of online computer programming, programming languages, but she's addicted to the fact that most of her children are from Ukraine, she's addicted to whether there's electricity in Ukraine right now, and the Internet is going. [[That's right last year.]] One week she teaches, the other week she doesn't teach, and now I probably don't ask her that, and I don't even have the right to ask her, she gets some funding on a Ukrainian account. So there will be these self-employed people who do not do business with us, but actually taxes there, because we were still dealing with taxes here, so taxes in Ukraine. Another thing: I have a grandmother there who I don't know if she's taking a pension in Ukraine, I don't know, and she can't actually get a bank statement now because she doesn't have electronic banking because she was ordered to the bank two days after they had to leave Odessa because there was a war going on. So how are we going to verify, or do our authorities, that maybe the seniors have a pension there? If it's going to be an honest statement again? Another thing that stopped me, because we're still talking about electronization, but here it's just gonna be electronic again, but I still think the labor authorities are gonna have to process it all manually. So here we have § 6c, point g - and I am very surprised - a declaration of property relations between applicants and foreigners with temporary protection, who live together and together compensate for the costs of their needs. So how's he gonna prove his property to us in Ukraine? I don't know if they have an apartment or a house there, and now whether it's real estate or its value? I don't know. Declaration of property relations of applicants with temporary protection in respect of foreigners. I understand that if they have some property, but I don't think it's gonna be possible now that they have a house there and they want to sell it to live here in the Czech Republic, that's not gonna be feasible enough. I just can't. So what are we gonna want with this statement about the applicants' assets? What good is this place gonna do us? Because if they have property there, then what? So we tell them to sell the house so you can have money and live here in the Czech Republic, and we won't give you benefits? I don't know. I don't really know why that point g is there. [[18.20 hours]] Another matter § 6d, health assessment. The district social security administration, at the request of a temporary protection stranger, will assess whether the foreigner is a person with health insurance. Well, we know there's a medical review that he's going through, for lack of doctors, and we're still there, so I wish it, I know that if they want some money, they need to be examined, but they're gonna have to prove the evidence why, to give them the zettep and these things to their disability. I ask again, where will they get these documents? I don't know. And another: the name and address of the attending doctor or doctor in the Czech Republic. So I know again from around the community - some of them just haven't even been to the doctor yet, and I personally got the tenth doctor for our grandmother because there's no room anywhere. So it's possible they don't even have the doctor here, but they're going to have to report an address in the Czech Republic. I've got a lot more than that, but I think we're gonna have fun on the committee tomorrow. One more thing, § 23, concerns the Ministry of Health, that I read in the commentary procedure that the Ministry of Health wanted to include it there, and this concerns the professional competence to pursue the profession of speech in health care. It's fine, but we're actually here - they have a different education than logos with us who have to go through something, and I want to ask - or at least I haven't read there, and it applies to the amendments that we would like to give or think about - if these Ukrainian logos who will work here will only be for Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian children, or if they can actually be crossed out here or if the Ministry of Health has crossed out a qualification course that is being carried out by a high school under a special regulation, and they may not have to have a specialization education for three years, so my point is whether there will really be any condition that these Ukrainian logos will be able to practice this practice normally in the Czech Republic, or will only apply to the citizens of Ukraine who will reside here. Well, that's the thing. And I think those are the most important things I have here. Well, I've got a lot more than that, but I don't want to keep my colleagues. I will certainly ask more questions tomorrow about the Committee on Social Policy, and we will prepare amendments to the fact that I am glad that you will be here on Tuesday, because first there will be a debate on Friday, sorry, debate, and then we will be able to read the amendments. [[to the rapporteur's table]] So if you can explain any of my questions to us now, or tomorrow on the committee, then we'll decide whether or not we're gonna make those amendments. I say, we welcome it for the YES movement, certainly, but we are trying to make sure that there is a law out of here that, with all the possible things that I have now asked, which are quite essential, the employment authorities, the Czech Social Security Administration have no more work to do, and we didn't overwhelm it when the law can come up so that everything will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u11	I, too, thank you, Madame, will now ask Mrs Helena Válková to prepare Mr Jiří Navrátil. Both duly signed up for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, my fellow Member Jana Pastuchová, through you, I think that she has uncovered most of these problems here with her questions inquisitive, and I believe that she will get some answers. I will just add, because the devil really is in the detail, and I have decided to come forward because I have already pointed out to this afternoon's meeting of the MP's club that a number of very important questions that this amendment is dealing with are actually directly dependent. So far, I have found no institute other than the one I will be talking about, in the form of an honest statement, depending on the standard declaration of honor. As has already been said, this statement has far-reaching consequences and consequences, because it actually allows you to draw a dose, to recognise the dose, to recognise the amount of the dose and, more or less, to tighten or mitigate the mechanism, but even this is not clearly modified. And I would also like to join the questioner, my previous speaker, a few questions about the Minister, in particular, to what extent it will be possible to verify and see if this statement of honour is actually based on a situation which is both factually and legally verifiable. It's more of a rhetorical question, because I don't think it will. So we're playing something that we're going to call more or less the gift, the dose of humanitarian for which I am, a dose that is dependent on some form of legal action, in this case an honest statement. If this is not the case, and we really think that we are able to verify the property situation with an honest statement, then I would strongly recommend considering the possibility of adding to at least the legal wording of the notice that if the levy is provided on the basis of an honest declaration which is incomplete or false - obviously I do not want to talk about the criminal aspects of fraudulent conduct, but let's say incomplete or negligently partly untrustworthy - so that such an applicant, to whom the amount will be granted, will have to repay it with interest within a given period, relatively short time. I think this could be some kind of prevention against taking advantage of the humanitarian benefit. It's not clear to me either, but my colleague here has already told me how the poor Labor Office will, for example, find out if anyone who asks for such a dose has an account in the Czech Republic, if someone in his family has opened an account. I am not talking about Ukraine at all, there I know it will be very difficult to find out, or at all the possibility of finding out whether what was true, whether it is worth the house that was still standing a week ago, at a time when he will fill out an honest statement that it is still standing - it can happen that it will not be possible. I hope there won't be many such cases, but it can happen. So I'm sure the government is facing a heavy nut. [[18.30 hours]] On the other hand, I think that at least the lawyers should be involved in this, that if we are already using the Institute of Honorary Declaration - which I assume is also not defined in some way - the existing version, the legislation in force, I assume it is a standard declaration of honour - as I say, we should be aware that the authorities of work are probably really from those publicly available registers, as the draft amendment says, only a very small part of the information they will need to determine the amount and grant the benefit. I can't imagine that the employment authorities would have time for investigative activities, and it would be partly illegal, because they can hardly collect their income for these purposes without the consent of the account holder, unless it's directly in the law, and it's not, I didn't find it there. So, if I sum up, I think that in order to really provide these humanitarian benefits as a proper caregiver, knowing that we want to provide them, and at the same time with one voice, they argued that we are also tightening up the control mechanisms, we need to supplement the wording of the law - or we should supplement the proposed wording of the law - about the warnings for applicants, what the conventions will be, if their statements of honour prove unfounded, incomplete, false or fraudulent, let us hope that these cases are not enough. That's what I miss very much. I think these are questions that the Social Committee should answer, and if it does not answer them, we should prepare very quickly amendments to supplement the relevant provisions. And now I would very much like to ask the Minister if he can respond to me, see if I've overlooked anything there, if this mechanism is already incorporated in another form, but I haven't found it there. It's a big novel. It's true that it's not my so-called press, so I might have missed something, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u13	Thank you. Next to the debate is Mr. Navrátil. Before the speaker's counter comes, I will make an apology: Mrs Tatjan Malá apologizes from 6:30 pm to 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I have already announced, I would suggest that the House decide pursuant to § 91 para. 2 of the Act on Rules of Procedure to reduce the time limit for the hearing of the Act in committees from 60 days to 2 days, i.e. by 58 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u15	If I've got it right, you're suggesting a reduction from 60 to 2 days, that is 58 days. He's reporting from the post of Member, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u16	Thank you. I guess I beat the minister now, because I'm sure the vote to shorten by Friday will be over. Will the Minister now answer any of the questions we asked? Thank you. Because really the time for clubs to process the amendments is not so long, but we're going to deal with it, just maybe we won't have to work out the changelings that you're going to explain to us right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u17	Yes, the challenge has been raised, the Minister is reporting. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u18	Thank you very much. I actually applied the moment the MP came to the counter. I will therefore take the liberty of responding to the two Members in their questions. The first thing that is important to say is that if the person receives temporary protection, he will only get it once in the territory of a Member State of the European Union, it is not possible to get it more times. Those systems have internal ministries connected. This means, even for the temporary protection, whether in our country, Slovakia, Poland and the like, for one particular unique one, there is possibly support under the social system, so it is not possible for this person to appear twice in our country and in Slovakia, this has already been tuned during the first flight last year. When it comes to the question directly from employers, here and in legal regulation, we create an obligation for employers to give us this information. We're counting on them to give it to us electronically, we're counting on a data sentence, where this information will then be paired up within the employment system so that it doesn't create the system where someone has to take the phone, call somewhere and so on. This is what we're trying to eliminate. In fact, it is also in the specific provisions of the paragraphs that you can look at, I think, § 8 and § 7, where there is a clear talk about this here in these matters. In fact, the same applies to medical assessment services, where we expect that if the person concerned has recognition of his health disability from Ukraine, we have an agreement to verify it with the Ministry of Social Affairs in Ukraine that he is the person who really has the proof, then we will be able to admit multiple increases in humanitarian benefits. If he doesn't have this recognition or if his health has deteriorated to the territory of the Czech Republic, here we have involved a medical assessment service. Yes, I'm aware that it's not a thing that's being realized in the order of one day, the process is a little longer, but I'm just not gonna let this form of support into someone who's just gonna come up with some kind of subjective feeling. Just like the Czech citizen, this person will have to go through an assessment of the medical assessment service. Here I am just submitting, this House approved a amendment in the autumn of last year, which strengthens the capacity of medical assessment service, with the fact that we already have a systemized and professional assistants in the Czech Social Security Administration, so here we should accelerate in general for Czech citizens. Then the question of an honest statement and even control of income. Here I submit: this amendment will actually open up access to the income of people who have temporary protection, whether from the point of view of full employment or from the point of view of who will work on the agreement. That means we're going to see all of their revenue, if this guy doesn't work completely in the gray system, then of course there's a situation that's much more complicated. But at this point, we are also working on the fact that if he does not give us true data and proves that he had any income, then these persons are subject to the same law as any other person, any other citizen of the Czech Republic, including the recovery of the aid unduly paid back and so on. With regard to the issue of income outside the Czech Republic, if this situation were to happen, we are able to do so in the future - and we are working on this, as Mrs Pastuchová said here, I said last week on the committee - that we should have a date over the next months, I will not tell you now, but the work negotiations are ongoing, information about people from Ukraine from the perspective of their social and pension systems, so we will be able to see then whether this person has income in Ukraine as well as in the context of social support or in the framework of the pension system. We don't see it yet, and I say this fair and squarely, if this person still has any income in Ukraine from his activities on Ukrainian account, I won't be able to see it at this point. On the other hand, let us say objectively again, if the person is in the Czech Republic for more than 150 days, the support from the state of the Czech Republic will fall to the level of living, sorry, existential minimums, so that is the amount that really borders on the fact that one can somehow live with it. As far as property conditions are concerned, what has been said here relates, of course, to the property of these people in the territory of the Czech Republic. Of course, we are not able to assess the property situation on the Ukrainian side, because I do not have a mechanism to examine whether the house in Kharkov has any value, whether it is standing there at all and in what condition it is, or simply no longer standing there. It is just that I do not have the capacity and it is not even how to objectively verify at this point, so in this respect we are able to really only monitor property in the Czech Republic, at the land register in the Czech Republic. And let's face it, there are people here who can acquire some property in that time. I also know cases such as entrepreneurs who have come from Ukraine, where they have lost their business, and in the Czech Republic they have been doing business for several months and already acquire some property. Of course, we will see these people, including the fact that we are still working on the finals of the solution, so that we also have a certain registration of motor vehicles. That's what we're working on with the Department of Transport, this is where the changeling, I'm calling it in advance, should be loaded in the second reading, here colleagues from the Ministry of Transport are still specifying this. [[18.40 hours]] I guess these are the important things that fell here. I just have to say one thing to make it clear, so there's no disappointing expectations. For my colleagues and social colleagues - I'm not going to be here tomorrow at the Social Committee because I'm on spring break now, I'm only coming to Lex Ukraine and I'm coming again on Friday, so tomorrow there will be representatives at the level of deputy or senior directors. So thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u19	We are in a general debate. Your speech, Minister, raised three factual points. First point of fact - Mrs Mádlová, Mr Juchelka will be prepared and Mrs Válková will continue. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, Minister, I would still like to follow up on my colleague Pastuchová with regard to the logopedic preparation, because in this law this is a relatively large intervention in the law on non-medical health professions, Act 96, as amended, which lists the professional competence of a number of non-medical health professions, without which the health care system cannot be without. And so, as my colleague Pastuchová pointed out, it would really be necessary to make sure that this does not involve the professional competence, or the specialised competence of Czech logos, because, as you write, it is necessary to take measures to improve the situation of the lack of professionally qualified health professionals to provide logistical care while increasing the number of people, children with communication difficulties and so on. So I'm asking whether, by interfering with specialized competence, both how quickly it solves problems which children who need to learn Czech have, if it is actually a three-year specialization education, if you have any expert opinion or opinion of a professional company of clinical logopers or even a logistics company, because it is really a big intervention in professional competence, and if it is therefore some swallow, when we can expect you to intervene because of the lack of health professionals and other medical professions, or how, what will be expected further, if specialized competence is cancelled, what will continue? [[Noise in the hall.]] And I believe that this should be presented to the Health Committee, because it really is no fun to reduce the requirements for the professional qualifications of a health profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Another comment will be made by Mr Juchelka, otherwise I will ask my fellow Members, especially in the right part of the hall, to quiet down so that the Member can speak quietly. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u22	Thank you very much, I will only be very short and thank the Minister very much for presenting and introducing this law here. I'm sorry he had to leave spring break, I guess there wasn't much left. But if, I have a question, the data will be about old-age pensions within the Ukrainian... like the Czech Social Security Administration, if you deal with the Ukrainian party, with the Ukrainian Ministry, so if... Who's gonna manage the data? Because they will be linked either to the Czech Social Security Administration or to the employment office. I just want to know if there's a logistical suggestion, if there's gonna be a special department, because it's really 460,000 refugees at the moment, and each of them should somehow prove the income, whether they're old-age pensioners - do we know that they're mostly retired, mommy and little kids, so how does it work? If there's any... the logistics or some digital application or something, so that the workers are already at this point, knowing that they already have a problem with terms, I don't know, calculating old-age pensions, not to mention the employment office, so that they're not even more burdened with these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u23	Thank you. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Válková. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u24	I thank the Minister for going to these specific questions. And I just didn't hear the answer to my question. So I'd rather wait for him to hear the question again, it's very simple: So whether it will be dealt with or even resolved, the question of insight or control of accounts, which may need to be re-established by a foreigner with temporary protection, as it is modified, because existing legislation, if I am not mistaken, does not allow this. And, of course, it's important enough - who will also have this competence? Offices of employment? They don't have it yet. So that's what I haven't heard a specific answer to yet. Otherwise, I join in when I have a few more seconds to what has been said here, because the fact is - remember the discussion that is going on here in the amendment to the Education Worker Act, how we fight here for not being school logos about calling school logos, so it doesn't get confused with those logos that have special medical, certification training, and now we would make something like that possible in a completely different way and to a wide extent. I don't think we'd really want that. But that's not what I'm asking the Minister, because it's a different area, school and medical, but I've already asked that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u25	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka will now speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u26	Thank you. I applied, and then it was mentioned here that, yes, I forgot the logos question. To answer: information - and this is not my area - information from colleagues from the Ministry of Health I have such that it will concern speechists who will really only do this activity for children from Ukraine, that is, Ukrainian logopede, logopede, who will be recognized for this competence for Ukrainian children, not for Czech children. And then I'd like to make another remark. We are also able to control the question of the account of those clients only up to certain legal limits against Czech clients of the employment office. Today we are not able to pair up all the members of the household, we have certain legal and technical limits here today, we are conducting negotiations, but it is not an entirely simple area here. So there's some room for a possible future discussion, but what's crucial - from the point of view of all payouts from employers in this country after 1 July, we'll see this data. That's the change and the big shift that we're going to see with the negotiators, so there won't be room for that part of the people who - about 25, less than 30 percent of the people working there on agreements from Ukrainian refugees to create some room for some inaccurate information about these people's incomes. That will heal with this amendment here. I'll make another remark. I appreciate the correct discussion, too, because I am aware that we are under certain time pressure. I promised here last time that I would no longer submit this in a legislative emergency or under Section 90 that we would go through standard readings, and thank you for some kind of friendly communication regarding the shortening of deadlines. I tried on January 10th to send you all here the intention of this Lex Ukraine to see what things we're working with there. So at least in this respect, I think we're trying to do right by the time we're limited to the end of March.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u27	Thank you, and another point of fact is made by Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Kasal will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I am now quick to use the words of my honourable colleague, Mr Bauer, by your means, who also said on the Committee on Social Policy that we are legislators and should approve really discussed and well-developed laws. I agree with that, and therefore the Minister - I thank him for answering some questions here - and I would like to ask him, when he tells us that he will, he will make some amendment to transport or to cars or to the register, so if he could really give us what he has said and explained to us, because you have legislation, or should be, but it is harder for me to really add to the paragraph that we discussed here with Professor Válková, through the President, in that section of Section 6c, point g of the declaration of property relations between the applicant and foreigners, that it will relate to property in the Czech Republic, as you said to us, yes? Because you explained it to us, but those officials... You'll write them a methodical instruction for nothing, and you won't have to ask questions if it's there. I don't think it's that hard to finish that one word or those two. [[18.50 hours]] And another thing, it concerns my colleague, Iva Mádlová, through you, the same thing, when you told us that it will only concern Ukrainian children and citizens, the same thing in that section of the Department of Health, let it state that it is clear to everyone that it is there. So I think you have the space to put it in there by Friday so we don't have to do it with individual amendments. You actually told us it was meant to be, but it's not in the law, so let's fill it in and then approve the clear things you told us that are missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u29	Thank you. The next one, with a factual remark, will be delivered by Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I also have a question for the Minister. I wanted to ask, and it's also about the speech therapist. You said here that only Ukrainian children will be involved, and I would like to know how it will be practical, because I am a practical pediatrician who writes the applications, writes the requests, and I write requests for both Czech children and for children from Ukraine, which I have in my office. How will this be distinguished? And who's gonna control that or who's gonna make sure that the Ukrainian logos don't do your job somewhere else? I think it must be clearly given, so I agree with what has been said here that it should also be passed by the health committee, because it must be set exactly. And I'm just gonna say one sentence: bad speech therapy is worse than none. That kid's sick for life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u31	Mrs Mádlová will take the next step, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to restock the logos. It may seem like a marginal problem, but it really is not a marginal problem because it interferes with a fairly significant law, as I have already said, and it concerns reducing specialised competence. And I have to say, I'm in a bit of a mess right now, because I don't know if it's just about Ukrainian logos, or if it's about Czech logos, because it doesn't say it's about Ukrainian logos. It is written in general, which means that I understand that this concerns Czech logos, which, according to Act 96 as amended, have abolished specialized competence over a period of three years. Does that mean it's canceled completely, or is it going to be transformed in some way, or what? I think that's a pretty serious problem. There really is also a lack of expression by professional companies. We don't really know what it's like if they've been discussed with them, how it's gonna go. I think that this problem cannot be underestimated, and that is exactly how I join my colleagues here, that we need to be clear about this. It is therefore necessary to tell ourselves how good a health care system we want to have if we are now beginning to reduce the professional qualifications or the specialised competence of some health workers. Will it continue, then? Because the lack of paramedics just is, and I'm sure it will be for a number of years. So I'm going to ask for this statement again, and I'm going to ask the Health Committee to discuss this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u33	Thank you. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Juchelka and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Ambassador, your next two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u34	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna repeat this one more time because I didn't get an answer. The explanatory memorandum states that income from abroad, in particular from Ukraine, is newly considered to be income, both from gainful activity and social benefits and so on. And this is really the question of how this is going to work, how will the data be transmitted at all, if at all, how will it be passed on or with what delay, and what will happen if the data is not transmitted for a few months - whether these people are going to be left without a benefit, or just a statement of honour? For the accuracy I assume that the Ukrainian party, the Ukrainian Ministry of Social Affairs, guarantees, but the income in the application will primarily be given by the applicant himself. So if the sum of all income is deducted, is it from those listed applicants, or any verified labour offices, from the data supplied, perhaps from the Ministry? And what happens if there is a contradiction in what comes from the Ukrainian Ministry or the Ukrainian CSSZ and so on, and what the applicant states in his application? Otherwise again, these are the questions, we expect answers, otherwise we support, of course, lex Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u35	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Mašek will speak. Before he does, I will make one apology: Mr Kettner apologizes from 19 o'clock for work reasons. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u36	Mr President, colleagues. I'd also like to comment on the logos. We here under the law of Lex Ukraine V, which we certainly support - and in fact its wording we would have liked it to come to this extent much earlier, but thank God for it - but given the logos. We're here to open Law 96 on the non-doctors, and it's a very serious matter without consulting the Health Committee... the Health Committee, I think it's even unthinkable. And here the risk is to open Pandořin's box a little bit, because because of Ukrainian children with speech disorder, we're going to go into Law 96, and now the question is whether it applies only to Ukrainian logos, where we're going to humiliate the demands, or even Czech logos, who are still active in this field and who haven't yet had the ability. And beware, it could also be a little open to Pandořin's box, because what if soon we reached 90th of doctors and began to speculate about it - and it has its logic - why would dentists from Ukraine not be able to treat their Ukrainian fellow citizens here in the Czech Republic in a similar way? So this would really be an explanation from the Minister of Health, and we should discuss it with the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u37	Thank you. The last point of fact is made by Mrs Pastuchová so far, so I will give her my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u38	Thank you. One more short question, which has not been answered and which is quite essential. As my colleague Juchelka said, by your means, I said a specific case, how will it be for the citizens of Ukraine who are not employed here, paying health insurance, earning their business, teaching for example in Ukraine, but you won't have a statement from the bank, so can it be an honest statement that maybe that month or quarter of a year didn't have an income? Or what's it gonna be? If he doesn't come from the Ukrainian bank, or they can have accounts in completely different banks, not just in Ukraine, will it be enough to give these Ukrainian citizens an honest statement that they don't have money, and the benefit will pay them? Or what's it gonna be? If there's an honest statement here that they don't really make money because there's no electricity and no Internet, and then they get nothing here, or what about these people?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u39	Well, that was the last actual application so far. Minister Jurečka is now reporting for the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u40	Thank you. I've been trying to explain it here in my previous answer, so that you fill in when you apply, whether you have any other income and how much your income is. The income is then counted and, if necessary, it is decided whether something is paid to him with regard to the income of the household. This means that the person should also include income if he has it from the Ukrainian side, either from some other employer he may be working for online, or he has income under the Ukrainian parenthood, or he has income under the pension system of Ukraine. If the information is false, we will check it back at any time, as I mentioned here, it will be followed according to the standard approach as against all Czech citizens. [[19.00 hours]] As far as the question of Mr Juchelka is concerned, I have made it clear here that we are discussing this with the Ukrainian Ministry. But I also said fair and square here that I don't know when we're gonna have the data, because the Ukrainian counterparty isn't able to tell me exactly when he's gonna give it to me today. We're discussing format with them today, so I'm assuming digital format. I spoke to the secretary, and I said that the monthly frequency would be ideal for us. But so far, this is not being dragged on their side. Of course, I assume here that whoever is the umbrella body in this debate is the ministries as partners who will possibly solve the technical question whether the digital information will go directly to the Labour Office or to the MPSV and the MPSV will then be able to transform it into the Labour Office. It's a technical debate. But at this point - and I have said this fairly - I cannot give you an answer because the Ukrainian Ministry, as a counterparty, has promised me cooperation in this area - even they would want that information in the future - at this point, is unable to answer these questions from the point of view of time and format. That's why I'm unable to tell you more at this point. That's how I described it fair and square about 15 minutes ago in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u41	Thank you. No one is now reporting to the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's anyone from the O.R. reporting in? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate on this point. I'm asking if we could consider the previous speech a final word, or would the plaintiff like to speak? [[No.]] He doesn't want to get out. The rapporteur wants to have the final word? [[I don't want to.]] He doesn't want to. In the general debate, there was no proposal for repayment or rejection. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. In the meantime, I'll have my colleagues come. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I will ask who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 40, 149 Members voted in favour of 130, no one opposed it. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. I'm going to ask if anyone has a motion on the next committee's commandment? Mr. Mašek, please. In the meantime, I'll check you out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to propose, as the next Committee on Health, where this certainly belongs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-002-015.u43	I have noted a motion for a commandment to the Health Committee. We'll vote on it. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 41, 132 Members have been voted in favour, 66 voting against 13. The motion was denied. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is proposing another committee for discussion? It's not like that. There was also a proposal in the general debate to shorten the time limit for the discussion, from 60 to 2 days, i.e. 58 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a shortening of the deadline? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 42, 141 Members have been voted in favour of 138, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I note that we have reduced the deadline for committee discussions from 60 to 2 days, or 58 days. This has dealt with all the votes at first reading, and I am ending this item. Since it's 7:04 p.m., I believe that there is an agreement that we will end this point. I'm interrupting our meeting tonight, and we'll meet tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we continue. Have a good night.
