ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 301/2000 Coll., on matrices of name and surname and on the amendment of some related laws, as amended, Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 431/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be presented by Prime Minister and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, and I will ask the Minister to take the floor, while I say goodbye to you today, pass the proceedings and wish you a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u2	Have a good day, thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Matrices, the Civil Code and other related regulations focuses, in substance, on two main topics. First of all, it's the electronization of the matrices, the introduction of a matrix information system called eMatrics. Currently, as we all know, the register is conducted in paper form in the matrices books, and since 2006, it has also been electronically conducted, but these electronic records are kept by the various registry offices and these records are not linked by the individual matrices offices in the Czech Republic. The main purpose of eMatrics is the creation of a centralised information system, facilitating access to the matrix of public administration clients. An important change is that you will be able to handle your matters on the matrix after the introduction of the matrice electronic system without being dependent on local jurisdiction to some kind of matrice office. This means birth certificate, marriage certificate, death certificates and similar will be issued by any matriculation office in the Republic and also by a number of defined representative offices, while matriculation documents can be issued electronically, many times with comfortable access from your home. This is clearly a simplification of work not only for the employees of the register, but mainly for citizens of the Czech Republic in contact with the state administration, in contact with the authorities of the register. I would like to point out that the maintenance of paper-based matriculation books is still being maintained. Electronization is to take place in two phases. Since 2025 the data format will be unified in existing systems used by the various authorities of mathematics and from 1 January 2027 the matrix information system itself will be put into operation. The second topic is changes in the field of family law and other changes responding to knowledge from the practice of mathematics. The proposal follows in this regard the amendment, which has already been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in the previous parliamentary term. At that time, it passed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in committee, but it did not progress further in the legislative process due to the end of the parliamentary term. The main proposed changes are: the introduction of the possibility of marriage in the language of a national minority under legal conditions, for further abolition of the conditions of permanent residence of at least one of the fiancés in the non-matrical community for the possibility of marriage in front of the inmate from this non-matrical community. A simple explanation: who among you was concerned at some time in a small village that doesn't have a matrimony office, and if your fiancé came to you with a relationship with this village, they wanted you to marry them, at that time there was no possibility unless one of the fiancés had a permanent residence in that village. It will now allow the mayors of small municipalities to exercise a pleasant mayor's obligation to marry even for those couples who do not have local jurisdiction in the municipality. Another change is a more detailed regulation of the right of minors to their names, including a reduction in the age limit from which their consent is necessary for these changes, from the current 15 to 12 years. Again, a specific case: parents are divorced and parents insist that the child's surname be changed. At this point, you had to ask a child at the age of 15 whether they agreed to this change. After discussion with children's psychologists, this border is moving to 12 years. If you imagine a child, his personal identity is crucially shaped by his name as such, and it is a major intervention in the child's personal rights at a time when his parents' instigation without the child's consent is changed by his last name. It basically goes by a different name in school from one day to the next. Well, 15 to 12 years. Finally, a fundamental change, the possibility of entering into a registered partnership so far has been limited to only 14 registration authorities in the Czech Republic. It is currently possible to conclude a registered partnership in the Czech Republic before any matriculation office. I stress once again that someone here should not be afraid that this is a breakthrough in other standards that we are debating in principle whether to include them or not in the discussion of the Chamber of Deputies - at this point we are only talking about the conclusion of the already existing legal title of a registered partnership. I repeat: possibility in front of all the matrices. I would point out here that unlike the first, technical part, where we are only counting on the introduction of the electronic matrix system from 2027, in these cases we are counting on the change, respectively with effect from 1 January 2024. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposal also includes follow-up amendments to other laws, in particular the Civil Code, and the content of the amendment to this Code is discussed in detail with the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue to discuss this press. I would like the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Eliška Olšáková, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u4	Hello, Prime Minister, Dear Members of the Government, Mr President, I am the rapporteur of the press 431 and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan has described in very detail all the information and all the changes that the amendment to the Matrics Act brings. Of course, the report shows that progress is resonating here, both in the case of the introduction of an information matrix system that unites information and brings it closer to the citizen, as well as in the area of family law, where the law approaches the demands of citizens and the standard of running modern public administration and society. I would add just one more quite important thing that has resonated in matrices and which changes with the amendment to the law, and that is the determination of paternity to a born child by the so-called triple agreement. Earlier, it was not possible for the father biological, husband wife and mother to determine fatherhood for the child by consent. This amendment brings the possibility of concluding this triple agreement here on determining the paternity of a child from the start of a marriage divorce. [[12.10 hours]] What I would point out as a great advantage will be the electronic information matrix system because of the fact that the request for duplicate birth certificates, marriage certificates and sometimes death certificates was very complicated for citizens who did not live in the place of the matrimony event, that is, in the place where the matrimony event occurred, so they had to show up in person or dealt with the full powers that had to have a certified signature, and this of course complicated the life of citizens. The mayors of smaller villages, whom I know quite a lot, are very welcome to change that they can marry where there is no register, when the fiancé does not have a permanent residence from their community. This is also perceived very positively among the municipalities, and I am very pleased for that. And as it has also been said here that there is also an opportunity in this amendment to accept the declaration of entry into the registered partnership by the registry officer not only of the regional authority, but of any matriculation office, this came out, I must say here, from the commentary point of the Association of Local Authorities, where it seemed to us that this was necessary because there was no legitimate reason why the declarations of persons entering the partnership could not be accepted by all the authorities. Moreover, the availability of this agenda only in regional cities has acted as an indirect discrimination against rural residents, so we are also pleased that it is coming into the amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate where I record two applications. Mr Robert Stržínek is the first and Mr Jiří Navrátil as the second Member. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a look at the issue of the amendment to the Act on Matrics with the eyes of the mayor of the twenty thousandth city of Valašský Meziříčí, where our city office, of course, operates the register as well. The content of the bill submitted is broken down into two sub-areas. Firstly, it is partly a re-submitted bill submitted by the government of Andrej Babiš in the past period and which has not been finalised. It was then the House press number 593 in the 8th parliamentary term. Secondly, it is the introduction of a matrix information system, a completely new regulation which was not part of the House press during the last parliamentary term. So first of all, to the practical matrix area. It is proposed to adjust a number of shortcomings in the current matriculation practice. The decentralization of state matriculation records does not allow efficient and rapid use of data from it. Data from registers may not be provided to authorised persons at any registry office, but individual applications may only be handled by local authorities. The House's press also responds to partial shortcomings in the section of viewing and drawing up documents in the register books and collections. It also addresses problems relating to the nationality of the authorities at birth or death in the means of transport or shortcomings of existing legislation in the field of name and surname. The proposed bill goes into a number of laws, but the amendment to the Act on Matrices and the Civil Code is essential. For example, selected representative offices of the Czech Republic will perform some of the matriculation tasks. The jurisdiction of the registry office to register the birth and death that occurred in the means of transport, including where, even after further investigation, the place of birth or death cannot be established. The possibility of marriage in the language of a national minority under legal conditions is introduced. And what has already been said here is abolished by the condition of permanent residence of at least one of the fiancés in the non-matrical community for the possibility of marriage in front of the inmate of this non-matrician community. It also interferes with the ownership office's acceptance of the declaration of entry into the registered partnership, which in practice will mean, as the rapporteur has said, that the existing solution based on 14 registered registry offices is being abolished and that it will be possible to enter into the registered partnership before any matriculation office. A declaration of the use of one or two names is also amended by a person after the acquisition of the citizenship of the Czech Republic, if he has more than two names in the register in the Czech Republic, then the use of the name or names and names after the father after the acquisition of the citizenship of the Czech Republic. Another important objective of the amendment is to reflect on the result of a more general requirement that a child of a certain age should agree to change his personal name or surname. This requirement is present in the legislation in force only in a partial way, for example, in the case of a change in the surname of a child whose father is not known as a result of the marriage of his mother. It is based on the assumption that a person's personal name and surname constitute an inherent means of his self-identification, the more so with advancing age, while a person who has achieved a certain degree of reasonable and free maturity should be in control of his possible changes as a result of various legal facts, such as changes in parents' surnames, adoptions and so on. In particular, the age limit from which the child's name or surname is required to change is reduced from 15 to 12 years old. Further modifications interfere with the issue of registration of surnames in special registers, changes in surnames for the duration of marriage, surnames of underage children, surnames after adoption. Newly it will be possible to write in the matrimony book and names small or homely. They are expanding in the material issue of the right of the deaf, mute and deaf blind to be free of charge in order to obtain the presence of an interpreter or mediator for acts for which this is required by law, for example in the declaration of marriage. As mayor, I have a practical point here. This provision should be effective from 1 January 2024. It therefore concerns deaf, mute, and deaf blind people, for whom the registry office is to provide free of charge for the presence of an interpreter or mediator in such acts as marriage declarations, partnership declarations, paternity declarations, or births at home for example. However, such interpreters are not available. Therefore, it is not only a question of freeness, i.e. the costs carried over to individual municipalities, that would be the least, but it would be impossible to comply with the new obligations imposed by law on the part of the municipalities. I would therefore suggest that such interpreters be provided by applicants, namely notifiers, on their own, if necessary, as is the case with interpreting from the languages of national minorities. Another problem here is the reference to the law on judicial interpreters and judicial translators. The very strict requirements of this law may be justified for legal proceedings, but it does not seem appropriate to require them for material events as well. In the area of parenting, it is proposed to simplify the use of the existing option in a simplified way by consensus to exclude the presumption of parenthood as a result of the mother's husband and, at the same time, to establish a reversible presumption to another man who is the biological father of the child. Thus, the determination of paternity can be carried out by the so - called triple agreement, or by the consent of the mother, her husband, who is not the father, and the real father. At present, this is done only in proceedings before a court which has been initiated on a proposal from one of them. That's a good change, I think, for the children's sake. In the field of surname changes, it is proposed to allow spouses to declare that the surname of one spouse will be a common surname, to which the latter will attach his previous surname. The spectrum of options is also proposed to extend in the field of surname changes in connection with adoption. First of all, it is proposed that a minor adopter be allowed to retain his current surname under certain assumptions, and, on the contrary, in the case of an adult, it is also proposed to accept the adopter's surname. [[12.20 hours]] At the same time, for the sake of completeness, I state that there is an amendment to the Act on Administrative Charges, the Act on Special Proceedings of the Courts, the Act on Population Registration and the Act on Verification. The Act on Verification specifies that the identity card of the citizen of the Contracting State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation will also be recognised as an identity card. At the same time, it is waived from showing identity by a driver's licence, because the registry offices and certifying authorities do not have access to the driving licence records and therefore cannot evaluate the validity of the licence submitted. The amendment of the Act on Administrative Fees amends the fee for the change of surname, for granting permission to enter a registered partnership outside the specified period and place. The amendment to the signature verification fee has been added to cover the newly introduced possibility of official verification of the electronic signature, so-called legalisation. We're getting into the second area of the press. This is a completely new regulation, when a fundamental change in the introduction of the matrix information system is proposed with deferred efficiency. This is an agenda information system of public administration, the administrator of which will be the Ministry of the Interior, which should work from 1 January 2027. The design specifies the structure and content of the matrix information system, the new role of selected representative offices of the Czech Republic in the performance of the matrix agenda is defined here and the procedure for the issue of matriculation documents and the provision of data from the matrix information system is adapted. The bill will represent a significant milestone in the work of the authorities. In electronic recording, adequate data on the natural person will be pre-filled with data from state records, so it will not be necessary to repeatedly prescribe existing data, such as birth parents. The matrices will have electronic data recorded by any matrices office in the territory of the Czech Republic and at the matrices events that occur after the start of the matrices information system, a complete history of registration will also be available. The performance of the notification obligations which are linked to the performance of the material activity shall be automated. The Ministry of the Interior, as a gesture of this agenda, will receive the possibility of drawing up statistical data. It can optimize the administration's performance or better target control activities. From the point of view of the citizen, it will no longer be necessary to submit a number of documents to the registry office, which will obtain them on the basis of proof of the identity of the applicant from state records. The matriculation agenda will be brought closer to the citizen through the abolition of local jurisdiction on certain material facts. I consider it important in this digitalisation that the possibility of personal or paper processing is left to those who want or cannot. Since 2006, the matrice authorities have been obliged to keep matrice records using computer technology, which makes 20 different software solutions through the circus, and data are kept in different formats. In order to allow electronically managed matriculation data to be transferred from the matrix offices to the matrix information system, the systems of the matrix offices must be modified to be able to share the matrix data in a uniform format. Only then can data be gradually transferred to the central repository of the matrix information system. The single data format and other technical details of the matrix information system set out the national standard for electronic management of the registers, which will be published by the Ministry of the Interior. The effectiveness of the provisions on the issue of the national standard is postponed before the provisions on the matrix information system are effective, so that there is sufficient time for data migration to the central repository. The national standard will also modify the timetable for the transmission of data by the authorities to the central repository of the matrix information system in the period 2025 and 2026. Since 2027 the matrices will be conducted simultaneously, in paper form in matrices books and in electronic form in the matrix information system. The introduction of a matrix information system will facilitate the exchange of information between the authorities and other information systems and speed up the reporting obligation of the registry. As a result, it will be possible to limit the local jurisdiction of the authorities and, in specified cases, complete electronic submissions, such as a declaration of use of the name in a different form, a request to issue a certificate for the conclusion of a church marriage or a request for a literal extract from the matrimony book. This will certainly bring the services of citizens closer. The citizen will be able to submit an electronic application after proving his electronic identity, for example through the Citizen's Portal. The right to edit the data of this system is provided by the registry office, which leads to the particular matriculation event by a manuscript-led matrix book. Other matrices should be able to preview the data on this matriculation event. Technically, access to the system will be built on a software solution in a thin client, which is a typical web browser. He's a step in the right direction. However, the issue is that the explanatory memorandum presented is addressed in detail by the costs of the representative offices, but for the costs of about 1270 registers on our territory, which bear municipalities, it is silent or foggy. More to the cost, then. The explanatory memorandum states that, in the context of the establishment of a uniform format of matriculation data, conducted using a national standard, it is assumed that the modification of existing systems is not very demanding and is feasible under maintenance contracts with suppliers, provided that they contain arrangements for free adjustment of the system as a result of legislative change. However, our experience from the municipalities is the opposite. For example, in case of the file service setting of the API interface, the supplier of our module Matrika cost 58 000 CZK. We have paid for connections with several other different systems from different suppliers, both sides. We cannot estimate the total cost of data transfer from our side, i.e. from the city side, at the moment. The costs of data migration on the MIS side are shown in the explanatory memorandum. Furthermore, I consider it important to add to the obligation to digitise analog matrices, i.e. those which arose before 1 January 2006. When and how they will cope with their current hard work is one big question. In connection with the proposed introduction of the matrix information system, it is also proposed to amend the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security and the Act on the State Statistical Service. If we ignore the matrix information system, most of the other proposed changes to legislation, such as registered partnerships, use of names after the acquisition of citizenship, control of the exercise of delegated powers of the Czech representative offices, do not impose any enormous claims on existing registers in our territory. I believe that the transition to the central information system is correct, if not necessary. The process itself, however, will be long and demanding both in staff and financially. Digitisation does not necessarily lead to a simplification of work in the authorities at the outset, on the contrary. Preparation for a new system should be based on the quality of the processing of sub-legal legal standards and, consequently, on the quality of the training of relevant employees. The central information system will require investment in information technology, the purchase of technology, and the system will need to be connected to individual community agenda systems, such as file service and economic system. Therefore, it is also necessary to take sufficient time to prepare, and I therefore welcome the deferred effectiveness of this adjustment from 1 January 2027. In conclusion, I recommend releasing the proposal for second reading, but adapting the amendments to some details, such as modifying the said obligation of the authorities to provide free of charge interpreters for people who are deaf, dumb and deaf-blind, or municipalities and cities operating the registers, to put at their disposal an instrument where such interpreters could contact them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual point, Mr Vojtěch Munzar is registered. I'm just making an announcement that I'm gonna be interrupting at 13.45, and we've got fixed ballot points. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to my colleague, through you. I was intrigued by the technical part where he warned about certain risks. I would like to support the Ministry of the Interior and the Minister of the Interior in this, because a single matrix information system is certainly an important basis for digitising the state and for new services. It is clear that any such thing in any field, not only in the government, but also in the private sector, if someone is switching to digitization, it will certainly require certain personnel and financial capacities, and we all know that it will not be from day to day. However, the resulting effect, the fact that we will be able to obtain birth certificates, marriage certificates, and electronic access, is certainly very useful. That's why I understand your concern. However, I believe that without digitalisation, not only in this case, we will not be able to do so in the future. [[12.30 hours]] I have -- I might be able to put a question to that. When I listened at the beginning of the Minister, he was just talking about the digitization - I suppose that will be the case, yet I want to make sure: will there be access through Czechpoints for citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u9	Thank you. I note another factual point, Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have also listened carefully, and I think that the analysis that was here from the opposition Member was essentially positive. So I didn't find any criticism of digitalisation, on the contrary, the promotion of digitalisation, only a question, or a critical remark. True, why isn't the divorced item more specific? How much is this digitalization going to cost? But I wanted to point my point of fact somewhere else, but it has something to do with it. We were with the parliamentary delegation in Portugal last week, and there we visited, among other things, the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for digitization there. And I am glad that I have the opportunity to say this on the microphone now, they managed to get a small amount by the end of 2026 for digitization, which includes some of the agendas that the Ministry of the Interior has in our portfolio, EUR 300 million. 300 million euros! You didn't hear me. So the digitalization, which also includes, among other things, the classic judicial agendas and the matrices, which we have in the Ministry of the Interior, is very well planned there. I also recommend coordination - not coordination, synergy or at least exchange of information and experience with the Portuguese Ministry of Justice. In any case, I also add to the request that we be even more specific about how much digitalisation we have and from what means, which I also very much welcome... Otherwise, in general, the bill is well written, I read it, I support it. Definitely here, the Ministry of the Interior legislation has once again shown how good it is, but there's definitely no quantification of the costs, I take that as the only basically lack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u11	I thank you, Madam, and now Mr Jiří Navrátil, duly signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't want to prolong this because there are really important voting points ahead of us. At this point, I would like to thank the Minister and, at the same time, the entire government for the fact that, indeed, there is finally a government declaration on gradual alignment with the rights of citizens, people who have decided to join a registered partnership. We have registered partnerships here since 1 July 2006. In 17 years, basically, nothing has changed in him. For 17 years, we have followed the rules that people who want to enter a registered partnership have only the right to 14 listed matrices. So I thank you for allowing this amendment to enter more than 1230 matrices in the municipalities with their matrices, and we will not be referred to going only to the regional cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u13	I thank you, too, and ask if anyone else? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I do not want to take advantage of that final word so that there may be an opportunity to respond to my speech, although I do not expect to extend the debate in any fundamental way. I would just like to respond to a few very specific questions that have fallen here. Mr Munzar: these requests will be submitted through the Citizen's Portal, through which it will be possible to deal directly with these things, so the possibility will be very simple, simply synchronized or sorry, that means a summary of all digital services to the Citizen's Portal, the clear service that the state provides is certainly desirable. To those costs for my colleague: the total planned budget of the project is CZK 364.5 million, with 66 percent of the eligible expenditure being financed from the IROP period 2021, 2027. The rest of the costs will be covered by the state budget. I have the items listed here and individually, but I think that's enough for an overview. Of course, I am responding and admitting to my colleague that the costs of the municipalities cannot be fully estimated at this point. He's right. At this point, it really is impossible to estimate, because it also depends on what electronic system the municipality uses. Of course, this will also involve potential costs. As for the status of providing the interpreter as an obligation of the municipality, however, there remains an opportunity, and this was a reminder by the Minister of Human Rights, that the client of the interpreter, whom he uses through some social service, often uses him, has some experience with him, so that he himself can bring him in even in this case. Otherwise, the matrices will be based on a list of court interpreters from sign language written for this field. They are being used by the courts, and so do the municipalities to access these lists, and I do not think that this is such a common case that, in any way - I certainly do not want to touch the rights of these people - but that it does not succeed in obtaining a registered interpreter for sign language on specific matrices. Those are probably the most important comments that have been made here. Thank you for your general support for this legal proposal. If you listened well, through the Vice-President, my colleague, I said at the beginning that this was a process initiated by the former government, and it turns out here that sensible things may not have political coloring. And I'm just hoping that this law that comes with digitization, which we've all committed ourselves to, and it's coming closer to the citizens' matrices, which we've all committed ourselves to, so it might not be a problem at all. I am, of course, ready for the second reading debate and the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u15	I thank you, Minister, and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the debate? I don't see an application. If so, I am ending the general debate. I want to ask the Minister, the rapporteur, if you want the final word? It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. I want to ask, does anyone propose to the Commandment of another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see an application. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I will read what we are voting on: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 135, with 164 Members registered, for 106, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. [[12.40 hours]] I ask whether there are proposals for a commandment to another committee or other committees for discussion, because the Organising Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another committee. Please, Mrs Válková, your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u16	Thank you. I think that there is a civil issue and that we should definitely look at it, at least briefly, in the constitutional-legal committee, and I therefore propose further discussion in the constitutional-legal committee. It is the consent of the paternity statement that I think is a question that should still be discussed. I'm in favour of the adjustment, but we'd like to discuss it on the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-004-022.u17	Thank you. I wrote down your proposal. I ask, are there any further suggestions on the commandments of the next committee or committees? I can't see, in which case I'll vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the order to discuss this press to the constitutionally-legal committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who's in? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 136; 168 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 70, against 1. We have not agreed to this proposal. There were no other suggestions. In that case, thank you and I am done discussing this press. I will read the apologies: from 12 to 13 hours for working reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes and from 12 to 13.45 for working reasons Minister Martin Kupka apologizes. I'm opening another bill, and that's it.
