ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u1	147. Government bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 387/ - third reading Thank you for taking the position of Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Petr Letocha. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 387/2, which was delivered on 4 April 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 387/3. And now I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in speaking? That's right. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a very quick recapitulation of the law that we are proposing, and it is now in the third reading. The main purpose of the Act is to make the procedure under the Asylum Act more effective. The whole law started to be processed in the last term. It is about 70 per cent of the same proposal from 2020, but the remaining 30 per cent responds to new facts that needed to be implemented so that asylum law in the Czech Republic is effective, modern and responds to the needs of the current time. Criminal penalties for smuggling are tightened, allowing more effective prosecution of perpetrators to change the facts, a matter that is dealt with at a European level. Another proposal implemented by the Ministry of Health in this legal proposal is the inclusion of minors with long-term residence in the public health insurance system. It is also an effective option of employing highly qualified workers from abroad in the Czech Republic without having to prove their educational degree in all cases, in some cases it is sufficient to replace this with proven practice in the field. The argument about health insurance is one that often appears, just to remind you - in this case, health insurance will not be paid for underage children, but parents, amounting to CZK 2, 336 a month, and it will therefore be a net income of the system. At the same time, right here in the introductory words, I have to reject the argument that there may be some development of health tourism. It's not like that. In order for a child to become a part of public health insurance, a long-term stay must first be granted. I will comment on the amendments in the submission of the petitioner's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u3	Thank you and I am opening the debate. I'm asking if the rapporteur wants to take advantage of the priority rights? It can now and then proceed to properly logged in. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, let me briefly remind you of this House press. The Government has submitted a bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, and other related laws. This proposal was approved by the Government on 8 February 2023, the House was submitted the following day and distributed as House press number 387. This House press passed the first reading at the House plenary on 21 February 2023, after which it was discussed at an exit meeting of the Security Committee, which took place at the premises of the National Centre against Organised Crime on 16 March 2023. This committee issued a recommendation resolution, as amended by two amendments, which were delivered to Members as House press 387/1. These amendments are referred to as A1 and A2. The second reading was passed by this House press here at plenary on 4 April 2023 at the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Amendments B1, B2 and B3, B4, C and D were tabled within this framework. [[10.20 hours]] Then the House Press was renegotiated on the Guarantee Committee, the Security Committee, on 13 April 2023. The Committee then issued Resolution 94 which was circulated to Members as House Press No 387/3, in which it recommended: The Chamber of Deputies will vote in the third reading on the draft bill in the following order - I will then introduce you to that order, in any event the motion to reject the bill has not been filed. Firstly, we should have proposals for adjustments under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading, if they are presented in the debate at third reading, and I am of the opinion that there will be some. Furthermore, we should vote A1, recommended by the committee. This amendment is contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Security No 89 of 16 March, which was circulated as House Press No 387/1, and its content is a reflection of the European Union's regulation on foreigners who do not respect the obligation to travel to them by another Member State. Police of the Czech Republic could also provide these foreigners. The Committee also commented on Amendment A2. This amendment is also contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Security. It contains the introduction of registration of vehicles with registration mark of Ukraine. In the register, the authorities of the municipalities with extended competence would record the vehicle operators. In addition, Amendment B1. This is Mr Radek Koten's amendment, House document 2471. Its content is the release of an obstacle to the imposition of the sentence of expulsion, namely that such an obstacle would no longer be disproportionate interference with the perpetrator's private or family life. It'll be B2 and B3. These are also Mr Radek Koten's amendments, which will be voted on at the same time by one vote of House document 2472. Their content is a stricter penalty for obstruction of decisions on both criminal and administrative expulsions, consisting of the fact that a foreigner continues to reside in the territory. Next, B4. Once again, this is Mr Radek Koten's amendment, House document 2473. This amendment proposes an increase in the rate of punishment for the qualifying substance of the transfer from 2 to 8 years to 3 to 10 years. Next, point C. This is Mrs Iveta Štefanová's amendment, House document 2481. Its content is the release of changes concerning public health insurance due to a conflict with the Senate proposal by the Parliament of the Press 165. In addition, point D This is an amendment by Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, House document 2436. Its content is another tightening of the punishment of smuggling. At the same time, the guarantee committee in this resolution commissioned the Committee rapporteur to present the opinion of the committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the third reading of the bill. This is what I am doing, and I will return to this resolution before approving the voting procedure and voting itself. I would also like to load two legislative technical modifications according to Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure which have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministerial, Chamber and Senate legislation. I stress that these are technical adjustments that do not change the text of the law. First of all, in Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the following paragraph is added: point 168 "and in the sentence of the second part after the semicolon, number 3 is replaced by number 2'. The reason for this adjustment is the fact that the quoted amendment, i.e. the replacement of number 3 by number 2, is already the content of Article one in point 42 of the amendment, so it is proposed to remove duplication. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following shall be added to point 20 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: (2) second sentence' shall be replaced by 'Article 42f (2) '. 2, sentence 3'. On the basis of this amendment, I would like to mention that the word which is deleted on a continuous basis at this amendment point is in § 42f para. 2 finds in the third sentence, not the second sentence. We will vote on these legislative technical adaptations within the framework of point 1 of the voting procedure, in which proposals are voted pursuant to Section 95 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u5	Thank you, too. I will add an apology: Mrs Marie Pošarová apologizes within 14 hours for medical reasons. And there have already been two factual points with a response to the debate. This is Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mr Jiří Kobza. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond factually to the speech by the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, who spoke here at first reading, that this law brings tightening up for smugglers in the context of illegal migration, but we, as the Security Committee, had an exit meeting when we saw the policemen who were handling this and they clearly confirmed it to us, and unfortunately, we learned that it was not contained in the law. So I wonder how the Minister of the Interior, who was unable to enforce it in quotation marks at the Ministry of Justice, will stand up to the amendment that I'm proposing a dispute with my colleague Jiří Mašek, which really tightens the punishments for smuggling gangs. I would like to say that we should all be aware that illegal migration will start again now in the spring and summer months and that it is very important that these penalties are tightened up, and above all, that is what those policemen want. They're begging for it because it was in the past, it was removed, and it would be very helpful to them. So I would like to see the Minister of the Interior here say whether an amendment that really tightens the punishments for smuggling gangs for up to 12 years, so whether he will support this amendment from his position as Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u7	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Kobza and then Minister Vít Rakušan are also reporting with Mr Kobza. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I've talked about this here before. Now I have listened very carefully to the previous speakers - both to the Minister and to the rapporteur, and I have somehow not noticed that the amendment to the asylum law would take account of the fact that Syrian President Bašár Asad has declared about seven amnesty decrees for all the fighters, the Syřan who fought against him, and that means that they are safe in the event of their return to Syria. That means all the asylum measures we're talking about here shouldn't apply to Syřan. The amnesty, according to my information, certainly does not apply to foreigners who fought in Syria against the legitimate government of Bashar Bašár-Asad, and they will, of course, be subject to prosecution, but Syrian citizens who fought against him are amnestyd in full, they can return home and help build Syria. Syria is very interested in returning precisely because it does not have enough people of its own who would be able to reconstruct after the war. So I really miss this fact in the law, and because we have experience at least from the migration committee of the Council of Europe, that every other refugee who rushed into Europe claimed to be Syřan, even though he couldn't speak Arabic and was very dark, I think this is a serious fact that is really lacking in that law. I would therefore like the Minister to warn me that I missed it, which would probably be the better option of taking it into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u9	Thank you. I'll just point out that there's a proper speech on the points of view, and it's really a reaction. And now I will ask Minister Vít Rakušan, who is logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I've already argued here in a similar way in second reading, and now I'm going to sum up a little bit of the development that was here. The tightening of the rates as such proposed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is not the only way to tighten the penalties for smuggling. [[10.30 hours]] In our case, we went the way in which the new facts of the crime were defined, which means the scope of the facts is wider than it has been before, and this fact may be applicable to a larger number of persons, the potential perpetrators of this crime. With the very increase in rates, the Ministry of Justice has not expressed its consent, and I would like to add here technically that neither the Security Committee has expressed its agreement on this proposal. Furthermore, the criminal code will not protect only the national borders of the Czech Republic, but the borders of all the states of the European Union and the Schengen area. This will put an end to the time when certain cross-border acts, revealed in international cooperation, could not be prosecuted by our police. A sentence that the police would like to impose stricter penalties - I would like us to stick to the way things are in the rule of law. The cops will certainly not impose any punishments on the smugglers as such, the cops will secure the smugglers and surely hand them over to the proper trial in the future. The Ministry of the Interior gives a neutral opinion on the amendment by Mrs Vildumetzová and Mr Mašek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u11	Thank you. I will ask Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mr Lang with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u12	Thank you for your correct answer, Minister, and thank you for your neutral position. I would really like to ask, first of all, all coalition Members to consider whether they would not support the amendment, because, as the Minister of the Interior has just said, the Minister of the Interior has proposed, but the Ministry of Justice has not agreed. I have had the opportunity to communicate with the Minister of Justice, too, but the House is a sovereign, and I am simply convinced that not only does the deed matter come forward, it will certainly help, but I think that we should have the rates set like the other EU countries, and if we do not tighten it up and put in the penal code what was in the past, that means raising the rate for up to 12 years, then in my view it is very necessary within the framework of illegal migration. So I would ask you very much to support this amendment, especially because you will clearly say that illegal migration is necessary, and we should, by saying that the Minister of the Interior is presenting it precisely to tighten up, but this tightening up is not there. It's not contained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u13	Thank you. I will ask Mr Lang to prepare himself with Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to see the Minister of the Interior on our amendment, when he here says that their proposals reflect sufficiently on some tightening up of crime, I would like to say that it had some kind of genesis of development. We supported it here at first reading, at second reading, then it went to the professional public and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová read in essence the amendment, which will be voted under the D-word today, when in section 340 para. 4 we only wanted to add paragraph (d) at the end of the text, when it was clearly stated that if the act referred to in paragraph 1 was committed, it would be done. 1, that means someone who organizes the smuggling as a member of an organized group operating in several states. I would like to say that, first of all, a neutral position was adopted, which last week, when we had an extraordinary Security Committee and we had more points there, and then it was voted precisely, as the rapporteur says, so it suddenly changed from the coalition to a negative position. I don't understand, because smuggling as such is a problem. We were very supportive of the amendment of these two laws, which are linked, i.e. 325 and 326, we need to accept these applications, we were very helpful also in the other partial things that are there, and I really do not understand who might be bothered by the fact that someone who organizes smuggling, which is a serious issue, it is simply a phenomenon, and it will be organized in more states, gets a penalty span of 8 to 12 years, not to the extent that at the exit meeting of the Security Committee it was supported by a specialized unit that deals with it, and that is the National Bureau of Organized Crime. I really do not understand when, on the one hand, the Minister and the representatives of the coalition say that they want to fight the smuggling, why this amendment is suddenly with a negative opinion. I really don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mr Mašek, in fact, to prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mr Letocha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u16	Mr President, honourable ministers, colleagues, my two previous speakers have basically said so here. I applied the moment I didn't know my colleagues would react. I would like to say one thing. The fight against migration is very difficult, migration is growing again. Now it is growing in the Mediterranean area, but in the spring we can expect migration that is going our way, and the possibility of double the penalty rate for organising this activity on the territory of our Republic and outside the territory of our Republic - I think it is necessary to take advantage of this regardless of whether we are a coalition or opposition, because our fight against illegal migration was supposed to be the same. Here we should agree, from my point of view, it's not a political issue. I just want to remind you that the division in the Security Committee is, of course, in favour of the coalition in terms of numbers, so I would not demonize the win by one vote here, and, on the contrary, to my colleagues and all other Members, I would like to appeal to them to be aware that we will now be discussing an option, an amendment that should fundamentally discourage the organizers of the smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u17	Thank you. Mr. Letoch, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Lang and explain to him why the committee ultimately voted on my proposal as rapporteur for the negative position. On Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's amendment, the Ministry of the Interior, which, as you rightly said, gave a neutral opinion on this, however, the Ministry of Justice expressed a disagreeable opinion on this matter and, given that it is a gesturer in this area, as rapporteur, I took into account the position of the Ministry of Justice and recommended a negative position to the Security Committee, which is actually the reason why we voted on the committee's position on the non-advisor, and the committee adopted that opinion. On Mr Mašek's remark, I just want to say that it is precisely to discourage - I mentioned it here last time at plenary at second reading - that I think also important, what punishments those smugglers will actually get, that is, it is not just about what punishment they can get, whether we are talking about the upper limit of 8 or 12 or how many years, but it is basically about what criminal rates they are going to get in court. If, at this point, we are tightening their sentences by basically adding some additional aggravating circumstances that judges and prosecutors can use to make use of a higher limit of punishment, so in this regard, it is the tightening of penalties, so I think we are now meeting the notion of tightening the penalties, but in that real form, that means that the smugglers will actually get higher sentences because of this. This is what I think can possibly discourage other smugglers from doing this. I hope I answered everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u19	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u20	Thank you for the floor. To a fellow Member and rapporteur, Mr Letoch, through Mr President, you know, you are having a bit of a disagreement. The Home Secretary here said he made the proposal. He presented it when the law was being prepared. But he didn't get a favourable opinion from the Justice Department. But at the same time, he said he's putting the law here to tighten up the punishments for the smuggling gangs. Do you even realize that we had 3,000 illegal migrants here in 2015 and that number went up to 25,000 last year? Do you even realize that it is very necessary to address this, and we need to keep it in line with other states? So the other states are going to have the rates high, we're going to have them low, so let's answer the question, where is this going to be most likely done, in which state? [[10.40 hours]] I am simply convinced of this and will indeed, Minister, I suppose for the proposal. Because I'm putting forward the proposal that you put forward, but in the commentary proceedings, the Justice Department said no to you. So I'm assuming that you're going to vote for the proposal that the Ministry of the Interior put forward today. I practically submitted it for you. So I think we're all about the same thing and that we should all work together today and not say, well, the Justice Department could give a disagreeable opinion - and I'd like to know if someone told me what the reason for this dissenting position is, because no one has told me until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u21	Thank you for keeping the time and Mr Lang is registered, then Mr Letocha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u22	Thank you, Mr President. So I would also respond to a fellow rapporteur, and I would react factually to what he said. I'm really surprised that last week's extraordinary Security Committee came up with what was being done. I agree with what my colleague Mašek says. We are, of course, in opposition there, logically the coalition has more members of the Security Committee, so it can vote for certain things for its coalition, but we had some sort of agreement here. Here was a consensus really across the political spectrum, which suddenly changed. First of all, I would like to comment on why the Justice Department was there accusing us of certain things. We discussed this yesterday before the final vote, at our parliamentary club, where we also discussed it. It's about how it was correctly said that there are different criminal ranges. It starts from 6 months to 5 years in the second paragraph, in the third paragraph there are 2 years to 8 years and the most serious fourth paragraph, where there is considerable crime, the transfer of international scope, is then 5 to 12 years. We've been designing there for 8 to 12 years, and, in essence, how the court will decide, please, that's his business. That they put the lower rates there, that's the thing -- we called it a district law, because every judge takes an individual look at it -- one evaluates it by giving someone eight years, the other evaluates it by giving someone two years. Therefore, we also have a neutral position on this because we know that this is sufficient in the second and third paragraphs. And if, please, the professional public, when we give to experts - and you have also said in the election campaign that you will be the government of experts, that you will listen to the professional public - clearly tells you that there is a need to tighten up the criminality here, and it is a one-off of the fourth paragraph, where it tightens up in more countries - organisation, then I do not see the problem why we should be stuck on it. I can already see that it can be anticipated by then, although I have no proof that there is already an animosity, and if there is an animosity, it is wrong for us to approve something that is for citizens of the Czech Republic. [[Time, please!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u23	Mr Letocha, with a factual and then factual Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u24	Thank you for the floor. So I'm going to try to do what I'm here to say again. I don't think I could argue with you because I didn't say a half word about what you mentioned, I think the Minister was proposing a law. In that sense, I can basically respond to the fact that if we raised the penalty rate for, like, 12 or 15 years and didn't do what we're proposing in this law, it would only be on paper, and it wouldn't actually affect the actual penalties, the penalties. That's why we went that way of tightening up so that it would really touch the conviction at a higher rate than it was at the moment. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, it was given in the context that it is actually non-systemic at this point in time to propose this, that more comprehensive proposals are currently being prepared for the regulation of criminal penalties and that, in general, there is probably some major revision of the Ministry of Justice and the granting of these very higher penalties, so we will certainly be dealing with this. Here I think that tightening up the penalties, as we have said, is actually fulfilled by essentially giving prosecutors the opportunity to use other aggravating circumstances in criminal files, which will then have to be taken into account by the judges, and the amount of punishment that is currently 8 years, but no one has actually gotten them, we will at least be able to approach them. So much for my response to Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u25	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Really, what happened didn't happen. We had a professional group with the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, but it is not true that the Ministry of the Interior sometimes came up with some concrete proposal for specific rates and their jump increase. We have brought to the specialist platform a discussion on how to prosecute the crime of smuggling more effectively, the expert gesture over the criminal code is logically the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice entered the debate expertly with the fact that when we refine the substance of the crime, which is important, it allows judges who give the punishments to give higher penalties for smuggling as such. So the purpose that we wanted as the Ministry of the Interior, we have fulfilled, we are fulfilling it by this law, and there is probably no need to marry here for general discussions, whether we are fighting - we are not fighting enough with migration and so on. We're fighting. That is why we have addressed this issue, which is why we also wanted to amend the asylum law. That's the thing that wasn't really contained in the material we inherited from you, and we were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were the ones who were inherited from you. From my point of view, this is what we want, and I really do not think that 2 to 8 years is short, as at the highest rate of 5 to 12 years is not enough. The important thing is that these people receive the punishments so that judges have sufficient instruments in the description of the facts for these crimes to be sent to the transferor's prison, and that makes the proposal possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u27	Thank you for keeping the time, and I will ask Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who is registered with the facts, so far it is the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u28	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the reactions. I'd like to respond to them. Then, Minister, do not say that you are presenting an amendment to the Asylum Act, which raises and tightens the punishments for smuggling gangs, because you are not telling the truth and it is not the content of this law. You're merely expanding the deed. And I say again, at the extraordinary meeting of the Security Committee, clearly those people who were most likely in your expert group - I apologize if you are the Minister of the Interior and if you need something to do your job, so you have also put it forward, and at this point you are saying that you are giving a neutral position, which means that you agree with it, so I don't understand why we can't approve it. And the reason that it is unsystemic, that it is prepared by some comprehensive amendment, I consider this to be an absolute mockery. I would just like to say that the current penalty rate is at most five years. Of course, if there's a felony of some kind of bribery, it can go up for up to eight years, but it's hard to prove. It is therefore necessary to increase those rates, even with regard to other EU countries. The other countries will have the rates twice as high as the Czech Republic. I don't know what else to say. I would just like to ask you, Minister, that if you gave a neutral opinion on this, I assume that if you requested it from the expert group or your people from the Ministry of the Interior, then you will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u29	Thank you and I will ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan, then Mr. Mašek in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u30	I am already begging, colleagues, that I am the last to be here with a point of fact, or then I will make a final statement. I need to do my job, or all of us, to face illegal migration, to end those smugglers in prison, and that's that the reality has changed. And if you're saying tightening the penalties or raising the rates, then it's things that aren't automatically equal. The tightening of the sentence is that otherwise we describe the reality, and a larger set of people is affected by this crime by the fact that they can end up in the execution of the sentence, and the rates that allow for the higher rates of 2 to 8 years, 5 to 12 years, are certainly not low. And I would just like to say that there are three instruments - that is a negative position, that is a neutral position, and that is an agreement, and the Ministry of the Interior did not give consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u31	Thank you. Mr Mašek, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u32	Thank you. Just a few notes. The fact of the crime has really been extended by organizing the smuggling to the smugglers who organize this crime from the Czech Republic abroad. I'm sure that's good. But all along, there was talk of increasing the rates of crime. There was talk of it, and now it's gone. Those criminal rates remain unchanged, and we, the House as a sovereign, here we can decide on the deterrent effect for the smuggler, because the smuggler will see if the penalty rate has increased for 8 to 12 years, and, of course, it will not go away from organizing this activity. And that's what we're all after here. The House - we can vote on this as a sovereign, and that option is not against the law. The fact that the Justice Department doesn't like it - they won't listen to our sophisticated debate here in the Chamber of Deputies, but they're interested in the performances that we're voting on here. Please, so vote really on whether we want to lead the fight against migration seriously and consistently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u33	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u34	Thank you for the floor. I only have one reaction to the Minister of the Interior. Now that he's finished his speech, he says the sentence of 5 to 12 years is severe enough. But that's the one, Minister, that we're proposing, so please support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u35	Thank you. And Mr. Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u36	Thank you for the floor. I just don't think that this technical stuff almost doesn't belong here until third reading, but that's just because we were surprised that there was a change on the Security Committee, is it? We were very helpful, as I said, within the framework of the merged Act 325, 326, and in essence we are only asking for the thing that the professional public requires. I want to do it again here, because we're fighting for those special forces today. And, yes, you're right, Minister, the fact is one thing, but if we look at the paragraph and look at what it says - if he commits the act referred to in paragraph 1. 1 as a member of an organized group operating in several states - that's exactly the rhetoric of the encezatecs wanted us to do, because they know why they were giving this - they put it right in there for us, too, because we took our advice. And he's the difference in the fourth paragraph, if you're 5 to 12 years old, or if you're 8 to 12 years old. That's also quite - if you've been in jail for five years, or if you've been sitting at least eight years. The Justice Department had some complaints there, for example, that there was a forfeiture of property. That's for some discussion, whether it's disproportionate or disproportionate again to what the smuggler did. But I really, here we are arguing about one paragraph, from my point of view absolutely unconflict, we all say left, right, smuggling is wrong, smugglers are bad, we have illegal migration that is starting again, spring is beginning, the sea has calmed, illegal migration will rise again, and let's all do it, we are legislators to do everything we can to prevent illegal migration. I really already believe that if no one understands this, it's already up to some coalition animosity - the opposition, and you've always said that you want to be helpful, that you want to be constructive, and I really don't see the construct at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u37	Thank you, and since no one is reporting with fact, we can move on to the debate. Mr Koten is registered. I will read one more apology: Mrs Michaela Opltová, for health reasons throughout the day. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to comment on the vote that was on the Security Committee. A total of six amendments to this law were tabled by the opposition. There are two other amendments that I think have a ratio too, that is the reflection of the regulation against foreigners disrespecting the obligation to travel from the EU by another Member State, and that the Police of the Czech Republic could therefore provide for these foreigners. That, I think, is also a step in the right direction. And then the introduction of records for Ukrainian vehicles, after which we called here sometime in April or May 2022. So it's been over a year and it's not until the fall of this year, in many cases the cops tell us it's late and they need it because they can't deal with the cars in any way because they don't know the owners, the operators. So I think he's okay. As opposition, we have tried to reflect on proposals that sounded from the ranks of the NCOZ police force, i.e. the policemen who come into contact with those smugglers in some way. I would say that smuggling is a rather lucrative business at the level of drugs, prostitution and so on, and I don't know why this group, i.e. smugglers, is to be saved in some way, whether it's a forfeiture of property or whether it's the punishments. I have tried to be quite helpful, so I have made several amendments that have prevented illegal migrants from deliberately marrying us here, and so on, so that they have to respect the decision on administrative expulsion, because they have been making excuses for their personal harm, family reunification, and so on. I also put in a few options regarding the rates for smuggling. These proposals were also not supported. I am therefore kept secret about why, in fact, when everyone, including the coalition and opposition, should be concerned about increasing security in the Czech Republic, and I do not see why we should give way to smugglers who function as an organized group, even an international organized group, because the smuggling is organised, for example, over three states of the European Union. At the same time, I also miss the reason why we are supposed to save them in the Czech Republic when the surrounding states - including Hungary, Slovakia and other EU countries - have a much higher rate than we do. Then why are we supposed to be saving them here? So that they don't get scared here, poor people, when they're transferring and they've got a huge business, so why should we be saving them here? On the one hand, we have quite good speeches on Facebook, which we have secured very well because someone writes something on Facebook and then goes to jail for it because it wrote against some bad side about, so I don't know. [[treated]] So either we agree here that we all care about the same thing, and so we want the smugglers to receive the maximum possible punishment and to be intimidated by it, because I think that the forfeiture of property is quite a severe punishment for the smuggler - unless it turns into a wife, as some Members here do, that they basically own nothing and have everything written on their wife. [[11.00 hours]] So I would really like to ask, too, those coalition Members, if they would therefore not vote in favour of our amendments. And when the minister says he wants the tightening up, of course, I'm taking his word for it, and I hope that common sense is found, the support of the smugglers will stop, and we'll finally start punishing them adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u39	Thank you, Mr Member, and I would like to ask Mrs Iveta Štefanová to be duly entered in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u40	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposal for a law on asylum tabled, but it is precisely on support or, respectively, on explaining and requesting the support of my amendment. That amendment, which I read into the system and applied to it at second reading, basically says one thing, and that is, let's remove from the bill the part that deals with - or involves the children of foreigners in public health insurance. The theme of health insurance for foreigners in general is very broad and raises debates, turbulent debates between experts, the public and, of course, across the political spectrum, and clearly there is no simple consensus. It's a subject that needs to be addressed, it's important. The situation is evolving in some way, changing and having to respond to it, I'm sure. I'm up for it, let's deal with it, but I don't think it should be dealt with the way it's dealt with here, in some three, four sentences in this submitted asylum law. For one thing, this is beyond the transposition, which is the main reason why we are dealing with the amendment of this law here, and in addition, it is also in direct conflict with another press, which is being discussed in everything. We have opened this topic, even though we were not designated as a guarantee committee or another committee, so we have opened it on the health committee. The debate was really very lively. As we disagreed on how to deal with this, we definitely agreed that this needs to be dealt with and it needs to be dealt with separately. And actually, we heard from the Ministry of Health that yes, there's a direct collision from the two prints, they're aware of it, and they want to deal with it subsequently with other perhaps amendments to the other press - that doesn't seem like the right solution. Anyway, this topic is important, but it is a direct intervention in public health insurance. And I ask that you once again consider agreeing or, respectively, from voting on my amendment, which is there in the voting procedure as proposal C. In the system, this proposal is read as House document 2481. Let's take it out of this law, let's let the law focus on what it's supposed to do, and we've devoted ourselves to the transposition and the original purpose of the law, the changes. And please, let's treat the health insurance of foreigners separately as we should. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u41	Thank you and I'll ask you one last time, and this is Mrs. Martina Ochodnická. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, since the effectiveness of printing 387 as a whole has been proposed since 1 July 2023, after consultation with the House of Legislation, which I thank very much, I would like to present two legislative technical proposals, or two proposals for legislative technical amendments pursuant to Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which I shall, of course, duly justify. Firstly, it is proposed in the provision of the present part of the twelfth on effectiveness to introduce the divided effectiveness of the changes mentioned in Part Four and Fifth, which is the amendment of the Act on Public Health Insurance and the amendment of the Act on Public Health Insurance from 1 January 2024. Within the framework of the justification, following the inclusion of minors with long-term residence in the public health insurance scheme, it is necessary that the health insurance information systems also adapt to this step. In view of the course of the legislative process in print 387, the time period during which they will be able to implement these changes is significantly reduced. In particular, with the General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, which manages the Central Insurance Register, it is thus practically impossible for all functions to be prepared in the period until 1 July of this year. It is therefore desirable to set up the efficiency of the relevant parts of the House printing since 1 January in 2024, which, according to General Health Insurance Company of the Czech Republic, will allow smooth adjustment of their information system. This proposal will apply only in the event of the failure of Mrs Štefanová to accept the amendment, which proposes, in her amendment under C, the deletion of Parts Four and Five. Second, it is proposed in the provision of the present section 12 on effectiveness to introduce the divided effectiveness of the amendment. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 326/1999 Coll., also from 1 January 2024. In addition to the already mentioned need, sufficient time limits for adapting the information systems to health insurance are necessary to ensure that they correspond to the rules laid down in the lex Ukraine in case of a change in the inclusion of persons with a visa to be covered by the public health insurance system. At the same time, this change must reflect a significantly higher number of people who have applied for patience in the territory of the Czech Republic since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine than in the past. Therefore, it is proposed to postpone the effectiveness of this part of the House printing 387 so that data on persons applying for a visa can be validated sufficiently in the Czech Republic, and on the basis of the evaluation either to let it enter into force at the beginning of next year or to further adapt within the upcoming amendment of the so-called Lex Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u43	Thank you, so I have two proposals for legislative technical regulation marked, it is divided efficiency. But first, we have a factual one and then an application from the point of view, so first, a factual one - Mr Dufek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u44	I have one little comment to make. Increases in criminal rates have never eliminated or destroyed criminal activity, ever. It is merely acting in a way other and other possible crimes, because of course the perpetrators are afraid of a high sentence, so only in a sophisticated way they invent a thing. But what is true and I am not saying at all that the proposals are not justified and that they do not have any logic is simply the application practice of the courts. This means that there should be a signal to the court that, in the event of a transfer, the person should receive almost automatically unconditional punishment, because this is indeed a very serious activity, which, for example, causes us enormous problems in the Zlin region. People like the White Carpathians could talk about it as they experienced last spring, when crowds of tourists or guests from the Mediterranean were literally going through their windows. That's really not funny. But raising criminal rates isn't gonna solve the problem unilaterally. Those smugglers should be shut down. Closing to some lower sentences, maybe, but they should be getting those sentences unconditionally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u45	Thank you, Member, and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is reporting from the point of view of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the reaction to Mr Dufek's previous speaker. Well, it's unbelievable to say here that smugglers should have a lower sentence, that they should be shut down for a short period of time, I don't think that's possible. [[With laughter.]] So people who commit incredible crime here, transfer people, pay for it incredible money. And I have one more question. Are we in the European Union, the Czech Republic? Well, we are, so we should probably do everything we can to have those rates like other states, and the other states have them much higher, or set up as the Minister of the Interior suggested, and now we are proposing it with the amendment. [[11.10 hours]] If the amendment is not approved, as the newspaper articles are now appearing, I think that if it does not approve, then the article or, as the case may be, its title should be "We will have the lowest rates for the crime of smuggling within EU countries." So I'm just saying it like it is. And once again, the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior suggested it, and I saw the Minister of Justice here, so I also talked to him about it, so I am calling him to comment on it, because the justification of the Ministry of Justice that it is unsystemic and that you will be preparing it sometime in the future, Minister, through the President - but the illegal migration here is culminating and will be culminating now, in the spring, summer, autumn months, so it is also very necessary to raise the rates. And once again, the police told us clearly that it was in the criminal code in the past. We're just going to put back what was there, and it's going to be very, very helpful. So I think that's our role as legislators to do this. I see that the Minister of Justice may comment, but I would like to hear one more thing in the general debate, which raises me and lifts me from the chair to the Security Committee, and that is that only now, after a year and a half, we have noticed that we should make a register of Ukrainian vehicles, because if they are committing an activity here that they are driving fast or misparked and someone does not physically catch them, they are not being fined. Once again, we asked the Security Committee why it wasn't until October 1st that it would start to fill the vehicle register, which means these people would be unstoppable? And I think it's wrong, and it should have reacted much sooner. We've been pointing that out. So some media then wrote that I may have pointed it out, but we didn't make a suggestion. Well, I was expecting that when we told the Home Secretary on the Security Committee that he was going to come up with the idea that the deadline would shift at least to August 1st, and that it would have to be launched from October 1st. But we have April today, we're gonna approve it now, we've given you the maximum reduced deadlines for this law, and he's only gonna start the Ukrainian vehicle register on October 1st and he's gonna start on October 1st. 12! So if you crash with someone in a Ukrainian vehicle, maybe the insurance company will pay you back. The other offenses are worse. I just consider it unfair, and I think that the relevant ministry, and we all know which one, should have reacted much sooner. But I'm saying again, it still falls under the Home Office, which has to clear it up. I have also seen how the citizens of the Czech Republic react very negatively to this. They do not like it so much that it is now such a long time that this government and these ministers are unable to have a register of Ukrainian vehicles ready in a few months, and only after such a time is it in the law as an amendment. That was not even in the proposal, I would like to point out, that is an amendment so far. Thank God it's there, because we've been constantly pointing it out, but we don't care about the term that it's only going to start with the data, the registration marks of Ukrainian vehicles will only start on 1 October and it will be valid and effective from 1 January 2023. So it's still kind of a second complaint. And at the same time, I would like to ask you all again, because I think we are here to help these things, and if we really do not approve this amendment, we will say that we actually support smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u47	Thank you, Madame. We have here two factual ones, Mr Benešík and then Mr Dufek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I deal completely physically with migration because I may be repeating myself notoriously now, but it's a big problem in my homepage, and it was a big problem. Literally and literally, migrants run under my windows, literally, and into my letter. Some colleagues might have seen to it. So I know what I'm talking about, which is why I will support this proposal. I will really support this proposal, because it is a signal, although perhaps the Minister of Justice says it is completely correct, that it is unsystemic, but we must send a signal. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] But I also have to stand up for my colleague Aleš Dufek, because he didn't say we had to punish the smugglers mildly, he said to send a signal to the courts to punish this crime in any way, because what is happening at the moment is that they simply receive conditional sentences. Please listen and let's not make long-shot speeches on Facebook and other media to blame our colleagues for saying something they don't say at all. I think whoever was listening to Aleš Dufek understood what he was going to say. He's a long-term lawyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u49	děkovat you, Mr President, and Mr Dufek in fact, then Mr Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u50	I may be expressing myself in a complicated way because it's complicated, but I actually said that the smuggler belongs behind bars. That's what I said here. The problem is that the moment we raise the rates, and it's the option, basically the thing becomes relevant somewhere under regional courts, the investigation will be carried out for a year, two before the person is convicted. I say again, the best thing that can be against smuggling is that when the smuggler goes straight to trial, he gets a year in a short trial, and it's quiet of him, I say it completely half-pathically, while the moment we make it into a big process, these people run out of their sentence in maybe three, in four years, they'll be wandering around or disappearing somewhere, back to the Balkans or somewhere in the Mediterranean. That's all I wanted to say. It would be wrong for us to pour out the bathtub and the baby, because, for example, in the Zlin district, this worked, that last year the smugglers were taking these unconditional punishments in the short trial, and it was the most effective thing to do. But I'm not at all opposed to discussing an increase in rates. Not like that at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With the last, so far the last, factual, Mr. Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, through you, to thank Mr Benešík for his opinion. I appreciate the fact that the ratio just moved here. He moves there on the Czech-Slovak border. We know that there has been a strong migration crisis since autumn, when we also had proposals, then, after our warnings, it has actually been approached by some measures. We have a slightly different view of this from the Minister of the Interior and, for example, aspects of the deployment of forces and resources of the foreign police. So please, I would like to ask you, colleagues from the right side of the spectrum, from the coalition, to stop thinking a little bit as if tunnelling, that you are one hundred and eight, and also listen to fellow Benešík, through Mr President, what he said. He said, in its essence, a clear signal must be sent. I've been sending x-times to the Prime Minister here, and I'd like to send signals to the entire right side of the spectrum. Really think about it when you vote, because it's important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u53	Thank you. Since there is no other factual point... In fact, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u54	Just two minutes. Hello, thank you for your word. I have been invited, I will try very generally to say and explain our position. It's basically always similar, and it's that you have one look - no offense - that I'm going to call the police here on business, that is, all the rates are very low, and when they get up, it's going to make it necessary to commit less crime. We think, along with the courts and prosecutors, that this approach doesn't lead to less, the crime. First of all. [[11.20 hours]] Secondly, we are talking overall about the criminal code, about its overall revision, we do not want to rip out individual crimes, because the criminal law itself deserves to be revised, and overall. And basically another reason I'm going to say here too is that on the one hand, I'm constantly listening to the true opinion that Slovakia and I are one of the countries that has the most prisoners in the population, that is, we have the most people in prison, that is, we're punishing unmodernly, and on the other hand, when there is a problem, we raise rates and shut people down even more. That's why I would call him very careful on our part. And that's about it. And that's probably how I'd talk about other crimes other than this. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u55	Thank you. Your comment called for two more facts. Mr. Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard the introduction of why not to do this, why not do it, from the Minister of Justice, but we really have a unique opportunity now to raise rates not to hack our criminal code, but to address the current situation that needs a solution, or to address the migration. The question of recasting the Criminal Code is certainly not for a month, it is not even possible for a year, it is a long-term matter. We need a quick reaction that will be effective because it is a deterrent effect. This is not another overcrowding of prisons, Minister, we both know that. There is not a large number of smugglers, but there is a need for them to be none if possible, and we can contribute with our vote today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u57	Thank you. In the meantime, one de facto canceled, so I'm asking if anyone else is interested in getting off? No. That is the end of the debate. I wonder if the Vice Prime Minister is interested in the final word? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only for a very short time. Thank you for the discussion in all three readings during the discussion of this bill. Just a few notes. The law as a complex is 70 percent consistent with what the previous government has left us. On the contrary, we added 30 percent of what the current situation requires, and I insist that even after what has been said here, it is quite clear that if we change the nature of the crime itself, we increase the penalties for smuggling. The deed is described more precisely, more pregnantly, it allows prosecution and allows courts to do so with greater application of the rate margin than it was at present. At present, the court's decision was mostly held at a lower lower threshold. In specifying the facts, there is a greater possibility of applying the higher penalty rates that I was talking about. With regard to health insurance for children, just one comment: this is the proposal of the Ministry of Health, which merely says that whoever is granted a long-term stay here - we do not talk about asylum seekers, we talk about long-term stays, these are people who work here, study here and whose children here are fully legally and legally growing up in the territory of the Czech Republic, quite legally many times because we want them here, they are here on the basis of some work permit that they have been granted - so that they will be in public health insurance with their parents paying for it. On the contrary, the Ministry of Health says that the potential contribution to the system is between 50 and 100 million. Let's not create any impression here, please, that we are embarking on some sort of medical tourism or anything like that. On the contrary, we're giving things a system here. And if there is any conflict with the Senate press hearing that has been discussed, it is already announced by the Ministry of Health that it will simply be resolved by releasing one provision from the Senate press. So let's not say that we're creating a problem here that we won't be able to solve in any way in the future. The last word to this law - it is clearly a step forward in asylum law, not just the implementation of European directives, but a number of things that will, on the contrary, enable us to have more control over the security situation of the Czech Republic as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u59	Thank you. Mr. rapporteur, are you interested in speaking? No. In that case, we can proceed to the vote on the amendments. I have, and I am asking at this point, the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give us an opinion before voting on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u60	Thank you for the floor. As the first item in the voting procedure, we have proposals for adjustments according to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which were tabled in the third reading, and Mrs Ochodnická, who were two proposals for change of effectiveness, and then two proposals for legislative technical amendments, which I have read. We will therefore vote separately on these four proposals together under paragraph one of the voting procedures, and I will always first say what we are voting on. The motion to reject the law has not been put forward, so we will continue by voting on the amendments as I preceded in the introduction, i.e. first on Amendments A1 and A2, which are contained in the Security Committee Resolution No 89 of 16 March 2023, which was circulated as House press No 387/1. We will then vote on Mr Koten's amendments, namely Amendment B1, B2 and B3 - the two together with one vote - and Amendment B4. We will also vote on Amendment C to Mrs Štefanová and the last amendment on which we will vote will be Amendment D to Mrs Mr Vildumetzová. The last vote will then be the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u61	Yes. Thank you, so we can take the vote. Let's start with the four proposals. I hear an application for check-out. Please sign up. So, rapporteur, we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u62	Thank you. The first proposal for a change of effectiveness is that it is proposed in the provision of the present part of the twelfth on effectiveness to introduce the divided effectiveness of the changes mentioned in Part Four and Fifth, which is the amendment of the Act on Public Health Insurance and the amendment of the Act on Public Health Insurance from 1 January 2024. This proposal will apply only if Mrs Štefanová's amendment is not accepted, which proposes the deletion of part four and fifth in the amendment under letter C. I beg you to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u63	Opinion? It's clear there. Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Yes. Thank you. We can begin the vote. Initiating. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 96, registered 170, for was 169, against no one. Result: accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u64	The second proposal for a change of effectiveness is that it is proposed in the provision of the present part of the twelfth on effectiveness to introduce the divided effectiveness of the change in Art. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 326/1999 Coll., from 1 January 2024.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u65	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 97, registered 170, for was 170, no one against. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u66	The second proposal, in the third order, is the proposal for a legislative technical regulation consisting of the fact that, in the second paragraph of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u67	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98, registered 171, in favour of 171. Accepted. I'll ask for a fourth draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u68	In the order of the fourth proposal, the proposal for a legislative technical regulation, which reads as follows: 3 in Amendment Point 20, the words "§ 42f para. In the second sentence, "Article 42f (2)'shall be replaced by "Article 42f (2) '. 2 in the third sentence'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u69	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 99, logged in 171, for was 169, no one against. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u70	The first amendment is Amendment A1 contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Security, House Press 387/1. Its content is the reflection of the European Union's regulation on foreigners who do not respect the obligation to travel, imposed by another Member State. The guarantee committee recommended this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u71	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 100, logged in 171, for was 171, no one against. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u72	Another amendment is Amendment A2. It contains the introduction of registration of vehicles with registration mark of Ukraine. In the register, the authorities in the municipalities with extended scope would record the vehicle operators. The guarantee committee recommended this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u73	The petitioner's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 101, logged in 171, for was 168, no one against. Accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u74	The third amendment is Amendment B1. This is Mr Radek Koten's amendment. Its content is to release an obstacle to the imposition of the expulsion sentence. Specifically, such an obstacle would no longer be an appropriate intervention in the private or family life of the perpetrator. The guarantee committee did not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u75	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 102, logged in 171, for was 15, versus 139. Denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u76	The fourth amendment is Amendments B2 and B3. These are Mr Radek Koten's amendments, which will be voted on together with one vote. Their content is a stricter penalty for obstruction of decisions on both criminal and administrative expulsions, consisting of the fact that a foreigner continues to reside in the territory. The guarantee committee did not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u77	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 103, registered 172, for was 16, versus 87. Denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u78	The fifth amendment is Amendment B4. Once again, this is Mr Radek Koten's amendment. This amendment proposes an increase in the rate of punishment for the qualifying substance of the transfer from 2 to 8 years to 3 to 10 years. The guarantee committee did not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u79	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 104, registered 172, for was 18, against 42. Denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u80	Another amendment is Amendment C. This is Mrs Iveta Štefanová's amendment. Its content is the release of changes concerning public health insurance due to a conflict with the Senate proposal by the Parliament of the Press 165. The guarantee committee did not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u81	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 105, registered 172, for was 29 against 78. Denied. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u82	The last amendment is Amendment D. This is an amendment by Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Its content is another tightening of criminal sanctions for smuggling. For the commission of this crime, a member of an organized group operating in several states would be newly threatened with imprisonment for 5 to 12 years. The guarantee committee did not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-002-147.u83	The Minister's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 106, logged in 171, for was 84, versus 37. Denied. Since all the amendments have been voted on here, we can now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended, Act No. 326/199 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic, and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, according to House press 387, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 107, logged in 172, for was 171, against no one. Result: accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you. Let me open another point number
