ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u1	128. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic or the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been divided into benches for you. I would like to draw the attention of both the intersecting Members and the intersecting members of the Government that, right after the end of the interview with the apologized Prime Minister, there will be an interview with the members of the Government. So now I give the floor to Mr Marek Novák, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Petr Fiala. Mr. Oldřich Černý will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u2	Thank you for the floor. Sir - absent again - Prime Minister. I'm sorry you're absent again. According to information from the media, your government wants to increase the mandatory minimum contributions of natural persons to the social system, according to that information by up to 60 per cent in three years. This growth is said to be proposed by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the basis - and beware - of a ten-year-old survey in which it was found that the average employee pays a third higher tax and levy than the average trader. In today's situation, however, post-covide economy and missile inflation would have caused the government to gradually end its trades or to optimize on taxes, which is certainly not in the interests of our state. If you are interested in fair conditions for the business of natural persons, there are several Houses of Press in the House to make the situation easier for our entrepreneurs. These are, for example, proposals that I have made personally. This is a proposal for the same guarantee period for businessmen as for citizens or the right to set up a bank account for businessmen and companies who often have trouble starting an account because, for example, the bank does not like their business. Prime Minister, will your government therefore increase the mandatory minimum contributions of natural persons to the social system, or not? And what will the parameters of the increase look like? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u3	Thank you for keeping the time limit. As I said before, the Prime Minister is absent, but he is excused. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he shall reply within 30 days in writing. I would therefore like another interview by Mr Oldřich Černý, Mr Radek Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, next week, your government is going to push for changes in the pension insurance law that it wants to take money from our seniors here at the House of Deputies. I cannot agree with this decision, because working citizens, our pensioners, really deserved to earn that pension. A large part of our society doesn't agree with this. Among other things, we're being approached by union organizations. For example, the KOVO Trade Union, the largest trade union organization in the Czech Republic, has written its outraged opinion, bringing together more than 80,000 members. Let me briefly quote: "The proposed measures are totally unacceptable to us, honest workers. It is not possible for people who have spent their entire lives contributing to the social security system to receive a lower pension at a time when everything is getting more expensive and facing excessive inflation, and they will still have to wait until 68 years. After all, this is the longest from across the European Union. Those steps by the Czech Government fundamentally threaten the dignified lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger. It is necessary to seek other solutions to ensure the sustainability of the pension scheme than merely to reduce the amount of pension or to increase the retirement age.' End of quote. In short, in our entire society, this proposal of yours has begun to grow. That's why I'm really asking you a well-meaning question. Wouldn't you be willing to call off this government proposal of yours, and hence the retirement meeting called for next Tuesday, and find that money somewhere else? Thank you for your attention and your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u5	Thank you. Again, what I said is true. The Prime Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. I will now ask Mr Radek Koten. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear sir, once again unpleasant - absent - Prime Minister. I'm always like this, but I'm sorry about that. I wanted to ask you about the Presidency when the Czech Republic chaired in the European Union. You said here that it was the most successful Presidency in the European Union, but all that came out of it was quite extraordinary chaos and an increase in all charges for citizens in the Czech Republic. The so-called emission allowances for households have been adopted under your Presidency, not only for companies but also for households. The emission allowances will be expressed on so-called heaters, i.e. according to consumption it will be included in the price of gas, such a chimney tax, as well as on fuels, when for diesel or petrol this tax will be 2 to 3 crowns per litre of fuel, which I think is a completely immoral fire-fighting European Union. Furthermore, you have not been able to block the ban on internal combustion engines since 2035 such vehicles will not be able to be sold in the European Union. Furthermore, there was no way to prevent the Euro of the Seven, which will also be liquidated by 2025. So I wanted to ask you: why did you not prevent these things under your Presidency, and why are you sucking out the wallets of citizens of the Czech Republic in this way? It will, of course, destroy not only citizens, but also industry in the Czech Republic. So I wonder how you're gonna tell me you couldn't stop it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u7	Thank you, and I would like another interviewer, and this is Mr. Milan Wenzl. I just repeat that the Prime Minister is duly excused and will reply to everyone within 30 days. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to interpel the Prime Minister, who is duly excused, as we have heard, but I can think of such a thing. Instead of talking to an empty wall, if there's any way we can make sure we can see his picture, his smile, on these TVs. So I think it would be interesting that I would watch the TV and I would address the Prime Minister directly, but that's how it feels to me in that wall. But it doesn't matter. Dear Prime Minister, in the last period, this is a circus of three to four months, multiplying in open information sources reports about you - allegedly planned - the disposal of state property, or Štiřín Castle, into the ownership of another entity. In this context, speculation about the sale of you to a direct buyer, namely Penta, which, among other things, Mr Dospiva, co-owner of the billionaire, appears most often in this information source. If your intention to sell the castle Štiřín is true, you may have decided to repeat the questionable decision that former Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg in Topolánkův and Kalouskův tried to make in the past, which prepared such a disadvantageous and dubious sale of the castle Štiřín. [[14.40 hours]] Unfortunately, from your decision not to provide any contribution to the operation of the main activities of Štiřín Castle this year and changes to the founding charter of the Štiřín Castle, I am convinced that the above mentioned information about you planning to sell in advance to the intended candidate is true. In this context, I am expressing my opinion that you, Prime Minister... [[- Please, we have time, yes.]] ...respectively, Mr. Foreign Affairs Minister, they deliberately decided not to use Castle Štiřín, contrary to the establishment charter...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u9	I really need to interrupt you, make it fair to everyone, I just let you... [[Member M. Wenzl:... his capacity. Thank you.]] Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Martin Kukla. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I am very sorry that you are not here with us, and instead you are on a foreign trip. You've always promised me here how you'll help people, how you've got the deštník versus the Expensive. I've made a small summary of how you actually help people, and the whole five-calice here in the Chamber of Deputies. You canceled the EET, which brought tens of billions of crowns to the state register, and instead you reduced the valorisation of pensions. You want to increase the retirement age. Well, what else? You increased the number of ministers, you said you'd have a balanced state budget, and let's see what state budget we have. You're starting to figure out that you're gonna cancel your construction savings allowance. You're saying you're going to increase the commission for businessmen, other cases that we've had to deal with here in the House that year, or we've heard, whether it's STAN, or whether it's the people's. I'm so sorry you treat people like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u11	děkovat you, Congressman, and another enrollment is Mrs Ivana Mádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u12	Mr President, colleagues, Prime Minister, on 29. 3. 2022 The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted a resolution which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic for intensive diplomatic action with the aim of a rapid end to the war conflict in Ukraine." This is a resolution adopted by 140 votes of Members from 148 in total, including the votes of the government coalition. For example, all members of the ODS, the Pirate Party or the STAN movement voted in favour. However, the Chamber of Deputies has not yet been informed as to how this resolution is being implemented. I would remind you that your government was in charge of the European Union from July to December last year, giving it an opportunity to address these issues. She certainly devoted herself to many aspects, but this was a great opportunity to reopen the subject. You have always acted as you said, so you always respect this Chamber of Deputies, so do I. And I believe it is in our interest to open and discuss this at the appropriate level. My question is therefore quite simple: how does your government fill the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 29 by me? 3. 2022? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u13	Thank you and please another enlisted, and this is Mrs Margita Balaštíková, and please prepare Mr Karel Sládeček. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u14	Dear Prime Minister, as I recently learned from the media, your Office of the Government is a mandatory subject under Information Act No. 106/1999. An active citizen recently submitted a request to the Office of the Government for information that she heard several times publicly the President of the Czech Government discussing that we are at war, so she wants to ask what kind of war we are in and who we are with, and whether we are now in a real state of war. The Head of Legal Department of the Office of the Government replied in writing within the prescribed legal period that Prime Minister Petr Fiala used those words on a metaphorical level and therefore that we are not at war. Dear Prime Minister, I respect the citizens' right to information which is obviously of practical importance to freedom of speech, and I would like to hear the answer directly from you whether we are at war or not. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u15	Thank you, Mr Sládeček and then Mr Radek Koten. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, in recent months, citizens who are largely disillusioned and disappointed by the government's current approach to combating the energy crisis and the level of price ceilings established by the government's regulation are increasingly turning to me. These ceilings set the price of energy for consumers to about three times the average of past years, which may result in a situation in some regions where a citizen pays a higher amount for energy than for the rent of his housing unit or house. The vast majority of people will pay CZK 6,000 for one spent megawatt hour of electricity and CZK 3,000 for the same unit of gas without charges. I am being approached not only by ordinary people, but also by industry representatives who do not understand, in particular, why your government has decided to burden them with a special tax and subsequently incorporate it into the calculation of the tax of the second, i.e. the levy. Such misinterpretation of Union law is likely to lead to a large number of courts that may end with your recklessness by going back to companies, including small interest. Do you not consider it risky from the point of view of constitutional conformity the concept of effective double taxation, where energy companies must face, on the one hand, an unexpected profit tax and, on the other, so-called levies, which are, however, actually conceived as tax? Aren't you worried about the possible intervention of the Constitutional Court and the subsequent compensation of hypothetically damaged companies? Aren't you worried about losing the competitiveness of domestic companies due to the grunting effects of taxes? How do you intend to ensure that the Czech Republic continues to be a clean energy exporter in the context of green transit? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u17	Thank you for the precise respect of the time and I will now ask Mr Koten, then I ask Mr Oldřich Černý to prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you a few questions about aid, namely the supply of weapons to Ukraine and further assistance. I have now noticed on the Internet servers that you have praised that we have supplied weapons that have been financed from the budget of the Czech Republic for 10 billion, and I have also received information that refugees who have been here for a year in the Czech Republic have been standing in the Czech Republic for 28.5 billion. So, overall, the estimate that is qualified here, some economists who have already written about it, is roughly 100 billion in this last year. Today is the anniversary of the start of this conflict. Within the EU, I think that the Czech Republic - it is also given statistically, you are truly praised for the way in which you plunder the Czech state budget at the expense of Czech citizens, because you probably have to get the money somewhere, and you want to send pensioners at 68 years of age into retirement. In addition, you want to take away their pension valorization, which comes with a cross after six months, when you're looting it with 17.5% inflation. But okay, so you can see exactly where your priorities are. [[14.50 hours]] So I want to ask you whether you intend to continue in this way or where you intend to go, except that we still owe as the Czech Republic or we guarantee the debts of Ukraine because it was again a project under your Presidency, so where do you want to take money for these things? By begging Czech pensioners or families with children? Or by taking 500 crowns from mothers who raised children? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u19	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr. Oldřich Černý. I'll ask Mrs Balaštíková to prepare herself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u20	Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you to the newly established borders of the so-called active flood zone. This zone is an area in the close vicinity of rivers where water flows during the flood and is able to destroy and wash away objects. Of course, almost nothing must be built and stored in this zone. At present, the decree of the Ministry of Environment is being implemented, which extends the active zone of flood territory many times. In some cases, the area is only a few kilometers away from the riverbank. In the newly defined active zone, the whole municipalities and parts of cities will be found. For example, it is now the Ústí Region where the new rules should start to apply for less than two months. It will not be possible to expand existing family houses or just build a fence or plant a hedge. There will be total depreciation of all properties in this territory. It is also understandable that hundreds, perhaps thousands, will follow. I would therefore like to know whether the government has dealt with this subject even informally, if so, with which result. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u21	děkovat you, Mr President, now Mrs Balaštíková and then the last of the duly enrolled, and this is Mr Koten. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u22	Dear absent Minister, the European Union has imposed a number of sanctions on Russia and its societies or individuals since the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine. They are focused, among other things, on the energy sector there. At the beginning of February, however, MEPs called on EU countries to adopt a full ban on imports of fossil fuels and uranium from Russia. Dear Minister, where does the Czech Republic take fuel to nuclear power plants? According to ČEZ's earlier statements, the supply of so-called fuel sets differs in Dukovany and Temelín. In Dukovany, the supply is supposed to be higher, for about three years, and Temelín is supposed to have a circus supply for two years. While the fuel in Temelín can allegedly be replaced by a fuel other than the Russian producer, the fuel for Dukovany should be specific and the ability to deliver such a specific product from a supplier other than, unfortunately, the Russian producer is not supposed to be high. I would like to know the answer, please, how the supplies and supplies of nuclear fuel for Czech nuclear power plants are secured, because I think this is very important in today's energy crisis. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u23	Thank you. And the last interview is for the Prime Minister, we have from Mr Koten. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u24	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, my next question is the possible increase in licence fees for Czech Television and Czech Radio. Why do I ask that? We were here yesterday discussing the new law on the Radio and Television Council, especially the novel, which is very suspicious and gives a sort of bianca check for you to choose your people as part of the five-coal - or five coalition parties. I learned, by ending the ČT3 broadcast, that there is no money for this broadcast, that it is therefore necessary to increase licence fees. So I ask, from what means is the broadcasting of the Ukrainian television programme, from what means is the broadcasting of the radio broadcasting of Ukraine, and who is it, whether it applies to Czech dealers, or whether the Ukrainian party is contributing something to this and so on, because if you want to raise licence fees to Czech taxpayers, then when you say A, you should say B, of course, who will pay it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I merely point out that the Prime Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing to everyone within 30 days. I therefore point out to the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted and will now be followed by oral interpelations to other members of the Government. Let me also read the apologies: Mrs Potůčková, for the whole working day, for the whole working day, Mr Richter, for the whole day on a foreign trip, President Schillerová, from 14.30 on a working day, and Mr Tesařík, from 16.30 on a working day. Furthermore, allow me to read the apologies of the members of the government, namely the Prime Minister all day on account of his foreign travel, Minister Balaš, also for health reasons, Minister Baxa from 17.30 for work reasons, Minister Bek all day for health reasons, Minister Lipavský all day on account of his foreign travel, Minister Rakušan also for family reasons, Minister Šalomoun all day for personal reasons and Minister Síkela all day on account of his foreign travel. I therefore now call on Mrs Marie Pošarová to give an interview to the Minister of Transport, Mr Martin Kupka, and thus launch a block of replies from the members of the government. Mr Farhan will be ready, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u26	Hello. I have a question for Minister Kupka because last week we had a regional meeting in the Plzeň Region and I learned that if gigafactory is built there, so that you promised them there would be some new airport, that you would take care of it, I would like to ask you some more information about what you were planning, where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u27	Thank you and the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u28	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, even a government resolution includes a task for the Minister of Transport, as well as the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Finance, to seek appropriate compensation in this regard. We have already taken many steps in this direction, there have also been several meetings with users, active users of the current airport Lína. I myself also went to see the Open Hangar Day at the beginning of February. It is true that, together with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, with CzechInvest, the Civil Aviation Authority, which is an important actor in this regard, and, of course, colleagues from the Ministry of Transport, we are trying to identify possible variants of the replacement of the current airport in Laina, while talking to airport users about how any alternative should look, how it should be ensured and what it should provide current users. Thus, I directly respond that this is also part of the government's task at the beginning of February and that we are actually taking steps to map the possibilities and identify suitable locations to replace such an airport. Of course, there is no financial dimension at the moment, the investment costs that such compensation should mean, but what is important is that we are in intensive contact with current users in this regard and we are trying to proceed in this direction so that a replacement alternative can be built, if possible, if gigafactors are created in this area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u29	Thank you. I am still asking, Madame, if he is interested in an additional... He does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u30	I'd like to ask: if the airport is operational and it cost a lot of money, so actually you're planning this, I'm going to say almost eliminate it, and then you're going to finance something new again? I think the government is supposed to act like a good caretaker, and I just don't see it from this point of view. On the contrary, I would say that this is a government failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u31	The Minister will respond again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u32	The government behaves like a proper caretaker, which is why we cannot hear this opportunity - if we had done so, we would have behaved exactly like ostriches who are sticking our heads in the sand, and we would have been hard to answer to the following generations of governments, but also to other generations of citizens of the Czech Republic. It is quite clear that the construction of such a project represents an essential opportunity for technological development and represents a key opportunity not only for further development but for the maintenance of the automotive industry in the Czech Republic. And, of course, it is also linked to the fact that we are looking for an alternative with those who are using the current airport, which would have significantly less negative impact on the surrounding construction than, for example, the current airport circuit over Linn. We are really trying to take the necessary steps in this regard so that the Czech Republic can make a real effort to make a key investment, which means a different project. And here I want to say, in relation to all of our voters, whether they voted for the current opposition or the current coalition, at a time when the state will not have projects that generate a gross domestic product that will not at the same time try to develop the Czech economy, we will not have funds for any other services that the state must provide to its citizens. In this respect, we simply have to look really honestly and responsibly at the opportunities of the Czech Republic. At the moment when such an opportunity occurred to other countries, they did their utmost to make an offer to investors to prepare the conditions. And similarly, the Czech Republic must behave, if it doesn't want to put this opportunity behind us, and we really don't want that, it's a really different project.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u33	Thank you. I will now ask another duly registered interpeller, Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my intervention concerns the Information System of infectious diseases. I would like to mention here that, as part of the third reading of the amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, which was the House Press 73, Minister Válek promised legislation regulating registers that collect data. I quote: "The Ministry is preparing legislation that will fix all these registers. I believe that this legislation will go by the end of the year until the first reading." This was said in the autumn of last year that it would be finished by the end of the year - in other words - or at least filed in the House. Even when approving this law - I will quote again, it may sound a little confused, but it is a quote: "However, what happens now, and I very much ask that you approve what agricultural (?) the Committee has supported this, as it has approved, so it will be concluded that this information on vaccination is to be sent to this register of SÚKL. In the meantime, I'll prepare the law when the law is in place, and then - only then - something will be sent to the ISIN registry. I promise you that here." This was declared in the adoption of the law or the House press 73, Minister Válek. Amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products, Act No. 314/2022 Coll., removed § 79c, entry into the eRecipe system, because the record is to be sent automatically to the system of recording of vaccinations via ISIN, new provisions § 81 Coll. (?) I ask you, Minister, that you have promised the Members and the Chamber of Deputies that you will do something by the end of the year, and on this basis you have asked the House and the Members to vote in favour of the law you have submitted. The law passed, but you didn't keep that promise. Can you comment on these unfulfilled promises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u35	Thank you. I'll ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister War for a reaction. You have your word, Prime Minister... Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that those of you who are familiar with this issue are as sure as any of you know how complicated the issue of registers is. Perhaps now is the time to inform you that some of this is being dealt with by the Security Information Service and is subject to this, it is likely to be subject to regime measures - I will certainly inform you about what will be possible, but the issue is really serious, very serious. I don't want to mark any culprits. The fact is that the legal anchoring of ISIN is primarily in Law No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws, in the form of which the law and its partial changes arose, i.e. at the turn of the millennium. The point is that Act No. 258/2000 Sb. Now it does not reflect the changes that were in the ISIN hygiene register - that is a fact and we are all aware of that, because these changes arose under certain hectic conditions and associated databases - and neither in assets made during the period of explosive pandemic diseases covid-19. We started, as promised, to prepare legislation on registers immediately. First of all, I promised it here, but first of all, I made a deal at the Office for Personal Data Protection, which has long been pointing out. Probably many of you have had discussions with the Office for Personal Data Protection. I've provoked negotiations with them, we've had them twice. During the preparation of the legislation, which I think is quite well prepared, it has been shown that we have encountered other weaknesses not only of registries, but of the entire reporting system that the Chamber of Deputies approved in good will in the previous four years, say, but which allow us to obtain information that is, say, for a much wider group of people than we thought they would, and are not entirely ideally protected. That means there's a very intense discussion going on. I apologize for the delay, but this very intense discussion aims to capture actually all information about patients - it will probably also be a partial response to further interpelations - all information about the patients we collect; let's not talk about registers, let's talk about eRecipe, let's talk about information that flows into insurance companies and from insurance companies to the Ministry of Health, let's talk about all information about patients in general. I totally understand the effort to have as much information as possible in open sources, on the other hand, probably every paramedic in this room knows that if the information is, say, very specific to the use of science, then it is quite easy to identify which patient it is. I'm sorry I can't be completely specific, I'm trying to choose words as carefully as possible. That is why we are preparing an amendment to Act No. 258/2000 Sb., the amendment is factually prepared, it is finished in paragrafo, but after we have encountered several other problems, so I have delayed its displacement into the commentary procedure. I hope to inform you more positively as soon as possible. Sorry about that, I really had no idea how difficult the situation was. But I'm saying again, it's nobody's fault, it's just three years of covid here, and we've been taking a number of measures where the priority was to protect patients' health and some things, let's just say... [[A clue.]] They ran away - I wouldn't put it that way, but now we're in a situation where we need to work things out. So I apologize once again that the promise I made could not be fulfilled by the end of the year, but it really isn't entirely my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. The Member is still interested in asking an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u38	I agree on one thing with the Minister that it is a difficult material and that it is a really big problem. I just wanted to point out that when we passed the law, the minister here promised to do it by the end of the year. That is quite essential, because when you propose or ask Members to approve something, and they certainly listen to you carefully, they trust you to do it, they trust you to do it by the end of the year, and that's not it, and that's what I've been pointing out here in the fall performances. And I'm asking you, Minister, if you can fill in the question, I don't want to hear it as soon as possible - best move the term as if you've already solved it with a decree at this point. If I were you again, I'd say, "I solved it with a decree." But okay, it was supposed to be solved by the legislative anchor. I ask you when the legislative anchor will be, which you promised will be by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u39	Thank you. The Minister is still interested in speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u40	I do, Mr President, because the problem is really very serious when we both realize it. It can be solved by a decree, but I don't think that's a solution, even if I could say it, which is why I didn't lower myself to say it. So, even if this is a formal solution, and basically a promise is fulfilled, the law is done. The problem is, I'll answer the question briefly, I'll dare tell you the date after 24. 3. if the hearing 24. 3. I will be able to set a date. If it doesn't, the problem will shift to the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u41	Thank you. Another duly applied was Mrs Balaštíková, but she withdrew her application a moment ago, so I will ask Mrs Helena Válková with her intervention - once again to Mr Válek, Vice Prime Minister. Sorry, I'm out of my mind in the meantime. I have new glasses, multifocal... I'm still having a hard time looking at it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u42	Thank you. I'm in a similar situation, so I'm gonna take them off for a while and... but it doesn't matter. In any case, I am happy to interpel, on the one hand, that the Minister of the Rakušan is here and thank you for coming. On the other hand, I am well aware that someone can perceive my interpelation, that it is too specific. However, these cases - I chose this case as a bit exemplary, because it's hard to explain in terms of time - I've had enough of those cases lately. What's going on here? These are requests from Russian citizens, they are, without exception, young men who turn to the Ministry of the Interior, here with an application for permanent residence, stay indefinitely, extension of residence - and I will not deal with these here now, I understand the situation of the Ministry of the Interior - and then there are also requests, when I am already forced, without thinking that we will not go that far, quote or say the name and surname of the applicant concerned, who turned to the Ministry of the Interior in good faith, grew up here from childhood and specifically, in this case, it is a person who will be 23 years old, in May of this year, and a year ago, in March 2022, he turned to the Ministry of Interior with a request for citizenship of the Czech Republic. Of course, in this case, it is not exactly about stays that have softer conditions and where I would be more careful, but in this case I have kept the documents that the applicant should have sent, I have gone through them - I am sending them here that, of course, knowing that I cannot assess the security risks, that is in the Ministry of the Interior, or I am not saying how it should be decided - but it should definitely respond, for example, if his request is incomplete. In my opinion, it was incomplete in some ways, so it should have reacted, especially when the boy, then even given the development of the political situation, began to believe that there was some intention of not granting him citizenship for some reason. [[President: I would like to ask for an end.]] So my question now is, how is it possible that a request has not been answered to this day? [[President: Madam... I left it for a while, let it be fair.]] Thank you. Thank you. I didn't realize I had four minutes. Two minutes. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u43	You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, through the President, we will not pretend, even if you have not finished your interview, and we will not be playing at every paragraph of the Rules of Procedure here - I know what the case is, so my answer will be as if you were able to finish it. General: The Ministry of the Interior - and this must also be perceived without making excuses for the fact that, of course, every so-called missed deadline is not good, it is certainly not positive, those people are waiting and you are right, many times it depends on whether they can continue to reside in the Czech Republic, and whether they can plan their future. I would just like to mention a few, say, statistical data on a minor defense that the Ministry of the Interior was actually swamped with about a record number of all possible types of applications in 2022. Please note that these workers, OAMP workers, have been intensively concerned with the immigration wave coming from Ukraine, but not only that. He and the number of new applications that have been lost have generally increased by 4,700, which is an increase of more than 25 percent. Of course, that's going to come out somewhere. We certainly didn't start sleeping, and we tried to deal with the situation. In order to ensure the performance of all agendas within legal deadlines, we have carried out internal systemization in the Ministry of the Interior, which means help through the transfer of civil servants from other departments to these agendas. I believe that it is the last cases that show that we are succeeding and that those deadlines are actually better respected in most cases than they were last year, in 2022, but, as we all understand, the situation of Russian aggression against Ukraine was enormous and for the Ministry of the Interior as a whole, especially for all asylum and residence agendas quite extremely. Of course, we are thinking of permanent personnel capacity strengthening. We'll see that after the evaluation, even when this crisis period is over, and we'll have data that matches the time that's more standard. The current one, as I said, is enormously demanding for all employees, especially those in this department. And as I say, strengthening from other departments within the ongoing systemization and revision of agendas at the Ministry of the Interior will continue. Of course, I know without giving up a name here, I know your particular case, I know the name of the person, but we both know it's a case that's still running, so we can't anticipate a decision here, neither of us can. However, according to my information, the resolution should be delivered to the applicant within a few days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. The honourable Member does not have an additional question, so we have balanced the time you had a little longer. I would like another interviewer, and this is Mrs Štefanová, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u46	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, my question will be very brief. As part of the discussions on various drug groups and specific medications, I learned during the discussions with pharmacists that pharmacies have already been announced, perhaps in the spring or summer months, up to a complete outage of antihistamines. I would like to ask, I do not have it confirmed from other sources, so I would like to ask you whether you also have this information, whether you could confirm this to me or possibly clarify this information, and perhaps best disprove it. Well, that's just the little question for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u47	Thank you. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by your means, Madame, you do not know how happy I am to be able to answer you well and positively. Today, a working group has acted to ensure the availability of medicines under the leadership of Deputy Minister Dvořáček. There's a member of the group and the president of the pharmacy chamber, so the information on the pharmacists is a good way to go. The issue of the availability of antihistamines has also been addressed. I asked for this about a month ago as spring approaches and in some countries they have a problem with antihistamines, and it was said that a number of widely generated medicinal products containing different medicinal substances are registered in the group of antihistamines for systemic application in the Czech Republic. This means that it is not here when I say it in Czech, monopoly of one supplier, all are indicated to treat allergies in children and adults. [[15.20 hours]] So we have enough preparations here from different categories. Also, no current problem in this group has been identified, even by the Pharmacy Chamber. And the President of the Pharmacy Chamber didn't say that they felt any problem in practice. Not even the SÚKL reported that there should be a major blackout, let's say, in one category. The fact is that, in addition, it can be stated that although some medicinal products have been reported to interrupt the supply, it is always one product in that category and has some alternative. These are most often manufacturing problems and they are needed by Dithiaden or Ketotifen. However, these substances are either obsoletous in the treatment of allergies or substances that have substitutions. A typical example can be Dithiaden, which is used orally as a tablet as a premedication before the use of contrast agents, which is now outside the standards of examination, not recommended by a radiological society, not recommended by a European society of urological substances, which has contrast substances in the gist of contrast. Yet a number of doctors, and I take this opportunity to, say, lecture my field again, yet a number of doctors go to patients before they go to the CT scan classicly, where iodine contrasting agents are expected to be applied, say they should marry Dithiaden. It's nonsense. This is contrary to the recommendation of the professional society of the Czech, European and in conflict with the methodology of the Ministry of Health. It's bullshit. In cases where a specific brand failure is reported, a specific brand within the substances currently used in the treatment of allergy, then it is possible to always find some replacement for another medicinal product from the same category or with the same active substance. A classic example may be Loratadine, where one of the antihistamines is blacked out, but we have others that have this active substance. Although it can be slightly uncomfortable, and it is understandable for both patients and pharmacists, and for doctors, that, therefore, if one of the medicines from the category that they usually use has to take a different preparation, so always one of the categories, at least one, but more, is available because, as I say, there is no monopoly here. And in the case of antihistamine medicinal products, the treating physician may prescribe either a substitute treatment for the patient or possibly a pharmacist may give generic substitutions in the pharmacy that are equally effective. There's always gonna be some kind of preparation from that category. We are now antihistamines, but we generally pay very much attention to anti-allergics precisely because we expect, say, a difficult situation at the turn of spring, the summers when different plants begin to bloom, and I am convinced that the working group will make it. This, too, is why representatives of practitioners for adults and practitioners for children and adolescents are in it so that the information can be accessed as quickly as possible by each doctor and pharmacist to keep the information updated at weekly intervals according to how the market situation changes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Is there any further interest in the supplementary question? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u50	I'm just commenting. Thank you so much for your answer. So the way I understood it, there's no way that a complete outage of the antihistamine group is going to happen. So this may be related to specific drugs, where the active substance will be available in another particular drug, so there is no failure of any of the active substances to choose another type of medicine, only another specific drug with the same active substance. This is very important to me precisely because the season of increasing the need for antihistamines and antiallergic is very close. So thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u51	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u52	All I have to do is thank you. With this I would like to call not only on you but also on other fellow Members to make that Thursday within the framework of the interpelling, if any such information gets to you, because, of course, you too are able to capture in your regions that there is a particular problem, take advantage of it, interpel, I will be very happy and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u53	Thank you. And now I will ask Mr Kott, who has an interview with Minister Helena Langšádlová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to thank the Minister for coming to the interpellation. My interpelation concerns funds for agricultural research and I would like to ask the Minister whether there is an increase in financial support for individual research institutes within the agricultural sector, whether it is for the Research State of Agricultural Production, Plant Production, Animal Production, Melioration Research Institute and others, because it is necessary, in my opinion, to support significantly new methods, innovative practices in plant growing, farming of agricultural animals and subsequent processing in the food industry, for the implementation of the common agricultural policy on the conditions of the Czech Republic or Czech agriculture. I would like to remind you that all this concerns the protection of landscape and nature, and this is a topic that is proving to be fundamental to the European Union's direction. Unfortunately, as far as precise agriculture is concerned, there has been a delay in support from the Ministry of Agriculture, although there is a promise that this will be dealt with. The barking calamity continues and the forest recovery is not entirely ideal, water retention in the landscape and anti-erosion measures are quite clear. And all of this changes the face of Czech agriculture and rural areas in relation to the procedures used. Madam Secretary, will there be enough funds for next year, but also for the upcoming period for applied agricultural research, or can there be expected to be an increase in funds still under the budget for 2023? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Madam Secretary. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear Member, Mr Vice-President, it must be said that the fulfilment of the needs that you have mentioned is completely legitimate, extremely important to our country and, of course, it has something to do with European policy. However, I cannot look at the fulfilment of these research needs only through the budget of the research organisations mentioned by you, because the capacity of research capacities here is provided for the state also by universities, institutes of the Academy of Sciences. I will just mention that only the Czech University of Agriculture and Mendel University, which are public universities, have budgets of around CZK 4 billion, and these are, for the most part, public funds that we invest in science and research in agriculture. Likewise, some institutes of the Academy of Sciences, like the Institute of Experimental Botany, have major breakthrough knowledge that is also practically used and transferred to agriculture. So what is really going to be the level of agricultural research, it is not only possible to rely on these research organisations mentioned by you. In addition, it must be said that these research organisations have both institutional and dedicated support. And just to supplement, the Department of Agriculture establishes twenty-nine of these organizations alone and eleven of them finance, those are the ones you mention. And when I look at the budget shift between 2018 and 2021, there was an increase of 30 per cent, and that really is not a negligible increase. I could also mention to you here many of the resources that these organisations not only can, but also should draw, and this is the dedicated support that goes both in terms of national resources, these are already running national programmes. And only the programs that I'm going to mention here, and that's applied research in the field of agriculture and then the Earth programme under the Ministry of Agriculture, but of course it's also money coming from the Ministry of Environment's budget - Environment for Life, so only these national resources in those programs where they are approved make about CZK 16 billion. These research organisations can also be involved and I know that they are involved, so it is not possible to rely only on the institutional support. [[15.30 hours]] There is a great deal of room to raise funds for those challenges that I do not underestimate at all, and I am aware of the needs of their solutions, including the promotion of science and research, that we still have a great shortage of so-called community resources. This is particularly the case with you mentioned topics, which are the means that are within Horizon Europe in pillar II, where it is very desirable that our scientific capacities be involved in these pan-European solutions, because you know that we do not only deal with everything you have mentioned in the Czech Republic. These are really big challenges that are being addressed across Europe, and that is why scientists across Europe must also be involved in these solutions. In the long term, I support the promotion of applied research, but also that academic research organisations, such as universities or institutes of the Academy of Sciences, participate partly in the transfer of knowledge of science, the evaluation of the results of science, and we will stress this issue more in the context of the evaluation of research organisations, which will then have an impact on funding. To be honest, we're not really counting on increasing institutional support for this year, and I haven't noticed this need from the resort, but I'm sure I'm open. We are now discussing the next year's budget because the science budget - research is beginning to be discussed basically from the beginning of the previous year. There are certainly requirements for individual departments, including institutional support requirements for individual research organisations, and I am certainly prepared to take into account the priorities that they are. Yes, these are also priorities that will be in the context of research-oriented priorities, because one of the challenges we face is the issue of climate change, but also the involvement of high-end technologies in agriculture. Paradoxically or perhaps for some surprisingly, I know that even this area is changing significantly, not only in terms of responses to climate change and other things, but also in agriculture today I know that high-end technologies such as artificial intelligence are involved, and there is a great deal of room on one side for intensification, but, on the other hand, more and more environmentally friendly farming, because I am aware of the fundamental impact it has on the environment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Member still has an interest in supplementing it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. I understand that and I think I agree with you that the joint effort of all of us should be food self-sufficiency and security within the Czech Republic, given what is happening in the world right now. But I take it again - and you have to understand - that the size of the Czech Republic is limited and we cannot afford to have a unilaterally dictation here that we will reduce the consumption of fertilizers and plant protection products by 50 percent, and we will not have an alternative to dealing with it in any other way. And I agree with you and fully support that the oriented research that can be applied within the Czech Republic is, in my view, the most efficient and quickest solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u59	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u60	Ambassador, I don't see this as a dictatorship. All the solutions that are adopted at European Union level are our representatives, and they were also representatives of your government, who have always participated in these agreements. It really is. I do not see the European community as a dictatorship, but as a partnership for which we are responsible and whose direction we are involved, whether in agriculture or in other policies. That's what I'd like to say. As regards the adoption of certain measures at European level, that is true, but, in fact, the same rules have been adopted in all countries. I understand, and I also know that some rules have been set from the past within Europe unevenly, that some old Member States may have more favourable conditions, and I have long seen that this is a handicap for our agricultural sector as well. I also know that, for example, Polák will once again favour their farmers with other, such as social instruments, I understand that. But as far as the field of science - research is concerned, there I think that this way is really cooperation across European countries and sharing knowledge so that we can all profit from it. And I think that the fact that we are in the common market also has advantages for our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u61	Thank you, and we can move on to another interpellation. Mrs Karla Maříková, who will interpel once again Mr Válek, Vice Prime Minister, will be Interpelling. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, the SÚKL reports on the results of the inspection activity, which focuses on the control of pharmacies and their illegal export of drugs abroad. Problems in production and logistics or legal export of drugs abroad by distributors are not the only cause of the shortage of certain medicines in Czech pharmacies. A rather new practice is the illegal reexports of drugs abroad, which are carried out directly by some of the pharmacies themselves. SÚKL has so far completed the checks or administrative proceedings on the basis of which it assessed fines of CZK 34 million. In this context, I would like to know whether or not steps have been taken in the future in order to avoid such practices, whether it has been established whether they are the practices of individuals such as pharmacies or organised groups, and whether you know exactly what particular pharmacies they were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u63	Thank you and I'll ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, through you, thank you very much for asking. She then the following interpelation, if it is, is from a very similar content, so I would take advantage of that, that part I will answer now and part of the other, so let's say both interpelators get at least some answer. Plus, I'm gonna use this to keep the promise I made here because I promised I'd keep an eye on the progress of the fines and what the development of the situation was. We need to realise that this whole thing is in charge of the SÚKL, and as the State Office for Nuclear Safety is a separate body, which can issue fines and cannot be issued for it by the police or anyone else, sanctions can only be done by the State Office for Nuclear Safety, so in this case the SÚKL is the authority that can issue fines, and no one else can enter it, it is completely independent in this respect of the institution. However, the activities that lead to illegal drug reexports, i.e. illegal drug exports abroad - because a reexport normally exists throughout Europe and it is the right thing to do, because otherwise it would not be possible to maintain market stability at least partially - are long-term monitored by the State Institute for Drug Control and punished in criminal proceedings. Lately, however, reporters have found a new way to hide their activities. Medicinal products that are received from a distributor in breach of the Drug Act will not be registered in the pharmacy at all, thus taking these medicinal products out of the monitored legislative supply chain and delivering them is almost impossible. These medicinal products do not reach the Czech patients for whom they were intended. The introduction of medicinal products, if the products are re-exported, are some fines, but if the medicinal products are not included in the register, the pharmacy operator, the pharmacy operator, may be fined up to a maximum of CZK 2 million, while in the case of an illegal re-export introduced drug but re-exported, the maximum amount of the fine is CZK 20 million, which means ten times higher. [[Emphasis.]] Thus, it pays the perpetrators not to introduce drugs into the records in quotation marks, as they face a tenfold lower fine. For this reason, as part of the amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products - and here I dare to inform myself that the amendment has already gone into the external commentary procedure, if I have the correct information, I will verify it tomorrow, because I would like to give you precise information and I would not want to mislead you - which should be presented to the government in March, that is, I think it is now in a lower commentary procedure, this amendment should go to the government in March and I hope to find a broad consensus in the Chamber of Deputies, by the end of the year, which earlier, ideally by 1. 7. that the amendment will apply, that it will not be part of more intensive political discussions, but concentrate on professional - I have proposed an increase in the upper limit for not introducing into drug records to 20 million, that is, not including in the register or report - the same fine. [[15.40 hours]] As far as specific cases are concerned, neither can it be confirmed nor excluded that this is an organised activity, and for this reason the State Institute for Drug Control has established close cooperation with the Directorate-General for Customs, the Police of the Czech Republic and the General Financial Directorate. I have asked that the synergies be very narrow, and the State Institute realises that I will follow this issue very closely, although I am not the one who can intervene, this needs to be stressed repeatedly. Both the Ministry of Health and the State Institute for Drug Control and the State Institute in this case are, indeed, doing, continuing to deal with this issue, as it is in the interest of everyone that illegal exports should be eliminated as far as possible. But I'd like to say a few data, and I'll continue to do that in connection with the second interpellation, if it sounds - I suppose so. A total of 34 sanctions of CZK 81 million were imposed for the years 2018 to 2023; 2018 to 2023 81 million crowns. The turnover of VZP 400 or the turnover of the insurance company is 450 billion you need to put it in the... for illegal distribution and were 268 532 packs of medicinal products worth CZK 206 million. And now only 268,000, 267,000 medicines on one side, before Christmas, imports of 400,000 packages of Nurofen. That means, that's really in terms of the volume of the drugs we have on the market, a really small part. That doesn't make it easy. It's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u65	Thank you. And I'll ask the lady who's interested.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would be interested, Minister, when specific fines were granted, so I assume at least SÚKL, I don't know if you know which drugstores were involved. So if SÚKL informs you, can you tell us? And then I wonder - that's about it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u67	děkovat you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u68	I know I can't. But it is certainly possible and I assume that the director of the SÚKLU will come to the health committee, and she is the one you can contact with that question. And if they consider that in the administrative procedure and in the rules that are set, they can also communicate specific pharmacies, yes. But it's not a large number of pharmacies, and there's no way it's true that there's some pharmacies who make a living here, they enrich themselves. And then I'm going to say the answer to the second interpellation that concerns the same issue, and I'm going to say more numbers and figures so you can have an idea of the development. Surprisingly, the most fines were granted in 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u69	Thank you, and another of the interpellers is Mr Lubomír Wenzl, who will also interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Válek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Minister of Health, colleagues, I am very pleased that these interventions are behind me, that I can really continue and I am glad that the Minister is present. However, I would mention a few things, I would ask some questions in my speech. Dear Minister, according to the recent communication from the State Institute for Drug Control, we know that there have been some quantities of medicines outside the register, which are referred to as 130 000 packages. The director of the SÚKLU said that the supply chain also loses medical prescription-related products, which I think is not entirely good and fine. As far as the compositions of the preparations are concerned, they should be preparations, medicines that patients need, for example, diabetes, oncological diseases, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, asthma, epilepsy or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. To date or from available information it follows that, in cases of decisive decision, it is the capture of these products worth approximately CZK 66 million. According to the Director's communication, this is not the final amount and that there are indications that the actual amount could be twice or perhaps even higher. The fact that the Institute has said that there is a suspicion that the preparations are disappearing abroad, you have actually said that, it is probably a well-known thing, and more or less that there are drugs or molecules that have already been exported abroad in the past or as found. The positive thing about this is that, according to the findings, it is not products that we have encountered in previous months, which is certainly a good thing and for the benefit of patients. In this context, I would like to ask three questions, which means the first one is: what is the value of the medicines that have been introduced abroad in quotation marks in this way, what do we know today, what can we consider proven? What steps will be taken with regard to those involved in this negotiation? You mentioned that in more or less part of your previous performance, but what else could you say? Whether the controls aimed at this issue, among other things, will be on the part of the SÚKL, although it is clear to me, is it a separate body of the state administration, whether you as the Minister of Health or the Ministry of Health will also address this issue? And the fourth question, what kind of measures will be taken by the Ministry, I take that in more or less the answer in your previous speech. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u71	Thank you, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u72	Like I said, in March, the law will go to the government. I suppose, therefore, here I would ask for the full support of the presidents of all these clubs, not only coalitions, but also oppositions, to get to the hearing as soon as possible. If we could approve it to be valid from 1 July this year, we already have a strong instrument in the autumn of this year. It would be very good and I ask everyone for help in this regard. In 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, SÚKL was granted for the illegal distribution of medicinal products, i.e. redistribution, a total of 34 fines, 34 fines for six years, but of course this year is two months, so let's say in five years 34 fines. Those fines were 206 million in total over the five years. Five years, 206 million. The year 2018 was 7 total fines, the preparations were total, I'm sorry, the fines were different, but the price of the preparations was 206 million, the fines were approximately 82 million. 206 million drugs in five years, 34 fines, 82 million fines. In 2018, there were 7 final decisions, 7 fines, and it was for medicines that were exported in the amount of CZK 11 million. In 2019 there were 5 final fines, medicines of CZK 20 million. In 2020 7 final fines and medicines amounting to CZK 22, 23 million respectively. The year 2021 was out of date when 11 final decisions were taken and the medicines were exported for a total of CZK 128 million, i.e. 2021 accounted for practically more than 50 percent of the fines. Last year, the year 2022, 3 final fines and CZK 21 million were exported, virtually the same as in 2019. And in 2023 - this year - there was 1 final fine and medicines exported in the amount of CZK 2, or CZK 3 million respectively. During the years 2020 to 2022, 10 penalties were imposed for the illegal distribution of packages amounting to a total of 6 million, and here the sanctions were roughly the same in those years, the most of them again, this time the most in 2022, but it was for 3 million and it was for 8 800 packages. Then I have information about an unnotified intention to distribute abroad, where the intention was correct, but it was not announced in time. Then we have: in 2018 to 2022, 15 penalties were imposed in total for a total of CZK 4 million, 4 million for 9 435 packages distributed without prior notice - that is, the distribution was fine, but the announcement was missing, which, of course, is also included in the package that SÚKL is talking about. The situation here was basically 1,600,000 in 2021 for an undocumented distribution of 3,500 packages, and in 2022 it was 2,700,000, i.e. a fine for the distribution of 2,825 pieces or packages. [[15.50 hours]] That means, I have - to believe that I'm not bullshitting - I really have the list... and what's blue is those who got the penalty, and those who are white are in the proceedings, but I really don't have the authority, and here I would really... if SÚKL gives me the authorization, then I'm ready to release the list. [[He's showing the material.]] I have no reason to hide anything. It must be said that the non-imposition of stock stocks is a problem, and here it must be said that the sanctions for this in 2020 were one, the sanctions in 2021 - that is what Mrs Maříková was talking about by your means - that was seven sanctions in 2021. For me, surprisingly, in 2022 it was not more sanctions, but it was 6, i.e. comparable to 2021, and in 2023 1 sanctions. So I hope this data is sufficiently exhaustive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u73	Thank you. Yes, there's still interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u74	Thank you to the Minister for the data and I was interested in two figures there, 2021, as you mentioned, the enormous increase, if you could tell us what they were, which groups, or these are unfinished business? Or are we waiting for approval of the SÚKL? That would be the first thing. And then the second, if we couldn't answer that question, in general over the five years, as you said, the SÚKL, what kind of medication was it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u75	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u76	I know this is a matter which, by your means, Mr President, I apologize, by your means, Mr Member, which hospital director, is difficult to understand - it is also unclear to me why, as Minister, I cannot have all the information - but it needs to be said that we have administrative authorities, administrations that are separate, and that they are separate in order not to be subject to political influence and political pressure. That means I just can't get to know some of the details of administrative proceedings by law. It's very similar to when external clinical audits are carried out in medical institutions that evaluate what, say, X-ray work is done in those devices. External clinical audits are not organized, but let's say the State Office for Nuclear Safety is involved, and I, as a minister, will basically not know how specific medical facilities have turned out. I'll get a summary analysis, I told you here, but I can't get into the details anymore. It is in a way very correct that then some of these things are not abused, but I can say that the SÚKL here really carefully, the experts of the SÚKL are carefully analyzing, and I have asked our legal department to discuss with the lawyers of the SÚKL to what extent detail I can really get. Now it is not the fault of any of those who have been there before me over the past 15 years, for example, to not criticize previous governments, but to go from the various types of ministers that were there, that the problem here is long-term, but de facto never led to any more forceful measures being taken, even if the problem of redistribution was much bigger in 2021 than last year. That means, in the law, I have a clear idea of the intensity of the measures and it will be up to the Chamber of Deputies how determined it is to be on the farm industry. I'm ready to be very sharp.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u77	I already knew the minister was quitting, so I let him. Another of the entries is Mr. Síla and will interpel Mr. Válek again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u78	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Minister Válek with an issue which is currently under discussion and which is directly under review. These are the risks of digitising health care. Telemetics can extend the hands and eyes of doctors, but they can never replace personal contact in clinical examination. Diagnosis, optimal treatment, and, for example, saving a patient's life in many cases, is decided by the many years of experience of a doctor who is unique, often described as medical art. Artificial intelligence can help, but it's hard to replace an investigating physician with many years of experience. The prepared amendment to the Health Services Act introduces telemedicine as a standard health service and regulates the rules for the conduct of electronic documentation, bringing confusion around patient identification, authorization of electronic documentation - the rules of anonymity and pseudonymisation of data - or questionable protection of personal data are unclear. I have taken several risks and which need to be discussed and addressed with the invitation of experts from the Czech Medical Chamber. [[unintelligible]] First, how will the security of patients' personal data and the protection of patients' rights be ensured when even the Pentagon's superprotected data can be hacked nowadays? Second, how will the know-how of a doctor be protected, when the only wealth of a doctor is the patient database - how does it prevent access to this database of patients from being cancelled by one click of the computer? Thirdly, how will the patient-doctor relationship be dealt with, on which the success of therapy is often built? Fourthly, as the legal treatment of the requirement to treat lege artis will be treated, because I believe that the basic diagnosis and treatment cannot be fully replaced by distance, only by telemedical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u79	Thank you and I'll ask Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by your means, Mr President, thank you, Mr Member. And before I answer, I would, even if we are completely in agreement on most of the matter, and the questions that you are asking me, I am asking, within the EPSCa Ministerial Council, in the context of negotiations with other ministers, in the context of the debate with the Commission, because I believe that all questions must be answered in this way. However, in the radiology of telemedicine, teleradiology, she really replaced contact with the patient, and we thought it was essential that we see the patient and then describe the examination well. This is still happening, it is important, on the other hand the second reading takes place without this personal contact and the second reading, which is done using telemedicine - after all, I also described two patients today and I did a second reading - this greatly increases the quality of the examination. Then I would point out - again from my field, because I am familiar with it: there is something called virtual colonoscopy, where artificial intelligence has penetrated - as well as breast cancer screening - where actually artificial intelligence and today the same learning programs that are developing in the Czech Republic have significantly reduced false positive and false negative findings, in virtual colonoscopy they clearly increase the likelihood of polyps being caught, and in breast cancer in the screening program they clearly reduce the risk of poor findings. But I agree with you that we both learned touch, tap, listen, patient and history, and then a series of laboratory and paraclinical examinations, and that's crucial. So the digitalisation of government is simply a trend that is indisputable, undoubtedly positive, which is essential for simplifying and improving the performance of government. The necessary condition is the sharing of electronic data across individual agendas and state institutions so that they do not have to be required of our citizens in excess and duplicated. I'm sure that's a fact, too. Of course, wider electronisation and the introduction of data sharing brings, outside the simplification of processes and the risks that you, by your means, Mr President, Member, have described very correctly which logically grow with an increased need to share and exchange data. The health ministry is no exception in this and follows the central trends of electronization and, by your means, Mr Farhan has devoted himself to this issue in his interpelation. I really tried to answer the truth, and I agree that the issue of the registry is extremely complicated, it concerns it. It is therefore necessary - and the Ministry of Health does so - to take appropriate countermeasures. During the electronization of health care, great emphasis is placed on the safety, traceability of approaches and security of patient data, which is absolutely mandatory. Such architectures are chosen, usually decentralised, with higher resistance to failure and data abuse. Within the framework of the European Projects of the National Recovery Plan and the IROP, health service providers are available resources for both digitization and related cyber security - and this is one of the pillars of what we want to support and support now - the importance of which will continue to grow within the newly adopted NIS 2 directive. [[16.00 hours]] For several hundred health service providers, who will be newly regulated, we are preparing support both in financial terms under the National Recovery Plan and in a professional level which I consider to be far more important than those simple funds. Representatives of the Ministry of Health are attending professional meetings in the emerging DIA, which is focused on central services, such as eDokladovka and the central register of mandates, which have a great impact on digitization in the health resort. Nevertheless, I believe that the health data must be protected by a level higher. With the emerging DIA, and therefore the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Czech Republic in the matter of digitization, sharing and protection of patient data, it coordinates everything. We assume that this cooperation will be even closer in the future, the DIA will fulfil its promise and mission and will provide its services to the Ministry of the Interior and other experts in the future. I'm aware of the problems and I'm going to mention one that didn't fall here. Hand in hand with this, we must always remember who will pay for it - insurance companies must pay for it, and it must therefore be part of the calculation sheets. It must not happen that the measures we implement to protect this data will actually go to the detriment of care. That's totally unacceptable. So I'm aware of all the risks, and I can assure you that caution in this case is my middle name.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u81	Thank you, and yet Mr. Síla is interested in an additional...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u82	I'd like to ask you one more question. Will the amendment define precisely the tools that will serve for the real protection of patients' personal data, or will there just be such expressions as "the greatest emphasis on the protection of patients' personal data" and so on? No, specific tools if they're there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u83	Mr. Vice Prime Minister will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u84	I understand you, through Mr President, Mr Member, but this is not my amendment, that is, the amendment arises in society with the Ministry of the Interior, and I believe that not only general wording but also specific instruments and security rates, like for example in the banking sector, will have to be even harder here and we will have to realize it, and now I do not think that any health professional feels the need to protect the data of his patients as the strongest priority, and it is not a regret. This is due to the fact that in the case of acute medicine, in the case of emergence, in the case of a number of states, the priority care of the patient becomes, and that is correct, and then after a time begins to think about data protection, which may be too late. I refer again to the debate I had with Mr Farhan. It's part of the whole discussion, because the registers have a very intimate touch on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u85	Thank you. Another of the interpellers is Mr Karel Rais, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u86	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, allow me to interpel you on your proposed and government-approved jánošíkov action to defend the elderly. Only Jánošík took the rich and gave to the poor, you are robbing the poor as well. How do you please explain to all pensioners, respectively mothers, that in January with a large pomp you will add 500 crowns for each raised child to compensate for the care of children, which is fine, of course, and then in June you will take the money from them again thanks to the reduction in valorisation? Each mother will lose 1,000 crowns a month. So the mothers who raised two children got nothing at all. In the event that both married couples are retired, you didn't take their money for up to four raised children. So in one pocket in the presence of cameras, you immediately take the other. I would like to know, and this is my question about whether the Ministry has any strategy in the area of pension payments, and if so, whether you would be willing or able to provide information on changes in pension payments for this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u87	Thank you. And now Minister Marian Jurečka has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u88	Thank you. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, colleagues, honourable Member Rais. Thank you for your intervention. I have to say a few key facts and data to begin with. When we look at the situation in the area of pension valorization, there has been a huge increase in the past year and quarter, and I will now say about the figures that I will raise to June of this year. This means that when we compare the period between December 2021 and June 2023, our average income in this country will rise above the limit of CZK 20,000, which is a really record-breaking amount of average income in this country. The increase will be 31 percent. When we look at the value of the pension, which will be after this and the revised valuation in June of this year, the amount will reach more than 50 per cent of the average wage, and if we look at the situation that was needed here two years ago, it was less than 41 per cent and in 2018, for example, the average pension against the average wage was less than 38 per cent. I would like to point out that, in fact, the very fast pace of the last year, in the four valorisations that have already taken place in our current government, the pension has risen at a really unprecedented rate, and when we compare it to the rest of society, people working, people of working age and people, and that is what we need to point out, who are making their contributions to the payment of these pensions, we are opening scissors between the intergenerational solidarity. And, of course, I'm aware that we've entered into an adjustment to the valorisation scheme with this step, but I have to look back on what you've mentioned here that we're taking money. We're reducing the degree of valorization scheme. The average increase in June according to what we propose will be CZK 760. This will be another increase in pensions this year and we have set it so that we no longer support the opening of scissors and the deterioration of the situation, the living standards of low-income and high-income pensioners by proposing that each of them will receive 400 crowns and then 2.3 percent will be increased in the merit section. What we are doing is also some responsibility not only for the state budget in this difficult situation this year, but also for the future, because this amount of money - this year it would be 34.4 billion, in the next 58.8, and that is the money that will once and for all become the mandatorial expenditures of this state, the money that children and grandchildren of current seniors have to pay, and I think it is really necessary to perceive this context as well. And as far as one more important thing is concerned - you mentioned it yourself, yes: education was started from January 1st of this year. It is CZK 500 a month for each mother for a raised child, who has fulfilled all the parameters to be granted an old-age pension, and these women do not touch anything, nothing is reduced to them and they will, like everyone else, have increased their pension by an average of CZK 760 in June. This regulation, which we are doing legislatively, applies only to this extraordinary valorisation for June this year, and I will be preparing a proposal, and so I communicated before the end of last year, which is part of the change in the pension system, so that we can adjust the valorisation in the future so that we are ready for the situations that we are experiencing in the last year and a half, when the previous creators of this law had never designed before 2010, what the principle of extraordinary valuation will mean in inflation of 10, 12, 15 percent. The impact is overwhelming on the budget, and it is unfair even in how it does not help the elderly with the low incomes of their life situation. So we're gonna take that into account for the valorization and for the preparation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u89	I thank the Minister and ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? He's interested. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u90	Yes, I do. I asked about the strategy because I'm surprised that at the Ministry - which I take it is an institution that should have some analytical department that should know that this year there's going to be some -- or at least generating scenarios, what happens when there's big inflation, what happens when there's little inflation, and what it's going to produce for you, because it's essentially expected here that: So, we got 1,000 kroner, we got two kids, and now we're going to get 1,700 kroner. Then it's said instead, not CZK 1,700, because we need a thousand dollars in the budget. So the question is whether there's any strategic department, if anyone's analyzing the data, because the situation was more or less obvious in January, so these scenarios could be the basis for you, and there wouldn't be what we're experiencing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u91	Thank you. The Minister will answer, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u92	Thank you. The first thing I want to respond to, as you mentioned, is that we need a thousand dollars in the budget. It's not like we're taking a thousand out of someone's current expenses. This is so that this is the amount of funds, the CZK 34.4 billion that we do not have in the budget. This money is not covered by income from insurance or any other, and it will only mean an increase in the debt of the Czech Republic and citizens of this country. It's just for some explanation of the context where the logic really can't be reversed. Yes, of course, we have a union that deals with the whole issue of pension policy that processes the analyses. We counted - and so was my public statements, which are traceable - that in 2023 there would be an extraordinary valorisation. We figured that the amount could be around CZK 17 to 20 billion somewhere, but even estimates of experts outside the MPSV did not assess that there would be such a significant increase in month-on-month inflation between December and January. This is the increase, which has really significantly increased expenditure on the state budget this year and in future years, in the current valorisation formula. In this prediction, it was really overcome. That is why I have submitted for the government - and the government has supported the proposal - an adjustment to the valuation scheme. I'm not happy about it at all, but just knowing how we would once and for all increase the mandatorial expenses... That means, take it that over the next ten years, it would mean an extra mandatorial expense, which we will never bring back, more than 600 billion crowns. That money would be missing somewhere else, in education, in health, in other investments in this state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u93	Thank you, Minister. I am now giving the floor to Mr Radek Koten to present an oral interview to Minister of Culture Martin Baxa on licence fees and broadcasts of the Czech Republic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u94	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to ask you a few such questions. The point is, therefore, that it has been said for a long time that Czech television is - that essentially the money that is collected by licence fees is not enough to operate and that it will therefore have to be increased. This year was even ended because of this reason of the broadcast of the program ČT3, because it probably somehow burdened the multiplex in the multiplex of the broadcast of the program, the multiplex. But it can be said that we were here discussing - I think two days ago - an amendment to the media law, when members of supervisory boards and the like should be elected. There's another key, there's more councillors of Czech television. It seems to me that there is basically a kind of concoction here for the Czech Television to somehow be taken over from here or from the Senate. But that's not the main question. It can be said that instead of the program ČT3 - or not instead of the program ČT3, but also in the multiplex - the program of Ukrainian television, Ukrainian radio and so on is broadcast. I would therefore like to know who is paying the fees for the operation of this broadcast, whether this is the result of the licence fees, whether citizens in the Czech Republic are to pay this kind of broadcast from licence fees through the operation of these programs. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam First Vice-President. I thank the honourable Member for the question asked. I'll split my answer into two parts, start with the other part. I, my colleague, through Madam Vice-President, have intercepted your intervention on the Prime Minister, who was actually identical. In the meantime, I have been looking into whether Czech Television is paying from the licence fees of Ukrainian broadcasting, as you mentioned. The preliminary answer is that the licence fee does not apply to Ukrainian broadcasting, but I will, of course, find out some details. I have to admit, this wasn't entirely obvious to me. We can, if possible, clarify exactly what you had in mind. As far as the independence of Czech television is concerned, this debate has been conducted here. Our proposal for the so-called small amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act certainly does not mean that the involvement of the Senate would lead to the so-called control of television through this instrument. The aim is to increase the resilience of public media, but I'm sure there's already been a debate on that. So I want to say publicly that I will still find out the details of whether it really could happen that Ukrainian broadcasting should be paid out of the concessionaire's money. But there's one thing I want to add. For example, in the first half of last year, Czech television headlined part of the news for the purpose of Ukrainian refugees and needed information on what was happening. That's what I think is definitely part of the public service. I'll get the rest of the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u97	Thank you, Minister. Is the Member interested in an additional question? It does, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u98	No, thank you. I thank the Minister for trying to prepare for this in advance. I'm sure I'll get back to that, and then I'll ask the Minister directly about the details. Thanks again for the answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u99	Thank you. This concludes this interpelation. Mr. Jiří Mašek, who was drawn in 12th place, will now be given the floor. She will present an interview with Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová on a possible breach of the Public Procurement Act. Please, you have the floor. Mrs Hanzlíková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u100	Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, I would like to ask Minister Černochová about the delivery of machine guns, which was signed in 12 months 2021, and then in April 2022 there was an increase in the price from 1,130 000 000 000 to 1,464 000 000. The history is that the contract was signed during Babišův's reign. It was signed by Lubor Koudelka, then Deputy Head of the Section. It aroused great media attention even then, because one machine gun stood there more than 1 million. There were some investigative programs. It was explained by the fact that this is a machine gun that is equipped with optics at a much higher price than its own machine gun. What happened: in April 2022 the same Lubor Koudelka, then originally Deputy Head of Section Management, became the Head of the Armament and Strategy Section and signed there the mentioned increase of 334 million for the whole item, which was 352 000 more per piece of machine gun. I note that there are states like Norway that bought the machine gun around CZK 200,000 per piece, and even in the past the Czech army bought it for 740 000 per piece. So my question is whether the procedure was correct and if the secretary could explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I give the floor to the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u102	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleague, yes, Deputy Minister Koudelka, who was Deputy Minister of Defence for Mr Metnar, has become Chief Director because this is how the Service Act speaks about it. That's when you took part in the hearing, even though you didn't vote for him. So, I guess anyone who hears it hears that the Deputy Director has become the Chief Executive because the positions of former Deputys have automatically gone to the positions of senior directors. So don't make it look like Černochová's picking on some new coworkers right now. No, Černochová has almost the same colleagues, apart from the political deputy, as Minister Metnar had. So much for an introduction. [[16.20 hours]] You were quite right here to say that it was a contract and a tender when this contract was awarded and completely ready to be signed during the time of the former Minister, Mr Metnar. Public contract for the conclusion of a framework agreement for the supply of machine guns sets Minimi has been entered in the form of a negotiated procedure with publication. This form of procurement procedure allows the wide participation of suppliers, i.e. the manufacturer of the weapon in question, if he would be interested in participating in the competition. This is therefore a completely transparent way of entering. After all, that's how my predecessor, Mr. former Secretary of Defense, Metnar, confirmed it. The qualification requirements of the contract were met by three tenderers. The tender was subsequently submitted by a single tenderer. Which subject submits or does not submit an offer, the Ministry of Defence cannot, of course, influence. And CB CENTRUM SERVIS, s r. o. fulfilled all the requirements laid down by law and procurement documents and therefore there was no reason not to accept its offer. Therefore, a framework agreement was concluded with this company on 20 December 2021 and, given the dramatic change in the security situation, an amendment was concluded on the basis of the urgent need of the army, which was defined, to increase the overall financial framework to a total amount of CZK 1,464 000 000 with VAT. The purpose of the amendment was to provide and supplement the military material obtained in favour of the Ministry of MO, in order to ensure the defence of the Czech Republic. There's no way there's been an increase in machine guns. The increase in the financial limit gives the Ministry the opportunity to order more machine guns at the same prices as agreed in the framework agreement. In this context, I strongly reject all the defensive accusations made by Mr. Lubor Koudelka's senior director of the Armament and Acquisition Section about the alleged overpriced and non-transparency of the contract that appeared in the media. The price of the machine gun itself is lower than the price in previous contracts, which were taken by machine guns for the Czech Army in 2019. Moreover, those contracts were subject to a SAO check which did not find any errors in relation to the previous agreed price of machine guns. In the current framework agreement, we do not only buy the machine guns themselves, but sets with accessories. For your idea: machine gun, spare barrel, cleaning kit and basic machine tool kit Minimi machine gun, carrying belt gun, four pieces of cartridge box for 100 rounds, foldable stock, caps, set for shooting with training ammo, transport case gun, tactical case, assembly of spare parts, it contains another set of items. In addition, the machine gun kit includes optical sighters, which form a substantial part of the price. So if we want to compare the tender of the Army of the Czech Republic with another army, we will find that the price of the base set of machine gun and accessories is a circus of 37 percent of the total price. I mean, the claim that we're getting a machine gun five times more expensive isn't even misleading anymore, but it's a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u103	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u104	Yes, thank you very much, Madam Secretary. That's why I put it here, the beginning, and I explained that the purchase was explained by Minister Metnar. The fact that something in a larger set is being bought right now, I certainly don't know about it. All that you listed was accessories, including the very expensive optics from the United States at the first purchase, so my question was, why didn't you, as the ministry, answer journalists why these speculations are happening? All you had to do was say that there would just be more machine guns in the increased amount, and that it's actually all great. So if the DOD were communicating, if they were giving the information, there would be no such speculation. So for me, really, be transparent, it's big money. In the future, you want 2 percent of the arms budget. But in this way, when it's with the big question marks and you can't answer the press' questions, don't be mad, I have to ask you in the interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary will answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u106	Ambassador, that's what the interpellations are for you to ask. Here I would probably just like to say that if this is written on some servers where the author isn't even listed, there's an article - colon: the editors, it probably doesn't have any great confidence in anyone at the Ministry of Defence and we're more likely to think of it as part of some competitive struggle. To the journalists who asked about it, we answered, I think, repeatedly. For example, Mr. Stratilík from Czech Television, we communicated with him in a very common way, even then Deputy Director Koudelka, today the director, communicated with Mr. Stratilík in a very standard way. But if it shows up on some server where no one will sign under this speculation, then I don't see any reason why the Ministry of Defense department should react to it in any way - who if it's not signed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u107	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will now be given the floor, who will interpel Mr Marian Jurečka on the issue of single-nutrients' financial problems, and Mr Brabec will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'm glad you're here. My interpelation concerns, as has been said, the financial problems of single parents and single parents as well as families where one of the parents is on parental leave. Currently, specific groups of people are most at risk of poverty and, of course, they are one of those types of parents. As far as single parents are concerned, there are more than 40 percent of them below the poverty line, and we must say that more than 340 000 children grow up with one parent. A lot of parents have been turning to me lately, and the description of their situation is very similar. They are exhausted, unable to make out with money, often moving below the poverty line, having only one income, having no one to help them with spending, household or caring for children. Often they have no money left for rings or class trips, causing their children to be separated from the collective. They fail to find a well - paid job because they are mostly time - consuming, and they cannot address their financial situation by having two jobs. They have no financial reserve mostly, any unexpected expenditure or revenue shortfalls have fatal consequences for them. They do not feel effective aid from the state, and very often they have to rely on the support of foundations or charity organizations. So I wanted to ask what kind of help the MPSV is now planning for this target group, whether you are considering valorizing the parental contribution or any increase in parental contribution, and whether you are actually dealing with this issue now in amending the concept of family policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u109	Thank you, Madame, and now Minister Marian Jurečka has the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u110	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interview, because I have to say that the situation of parents in families with multiple children and, above all, the situation of single parents/separaters, if we look at it through the optics of the economy in terms of per capita income in a given household, is significantly more complex than that of seniors, for example. Last year, as a government, we responded with several systemic measures to support parents, including single parents. This means that we have taken steps that meant twice last year to increase the living and existential minimum, which is crucial and is then projected to the extent and extent of possible supported persons in this country. At the same time, last year we also paid our parents with household income up to CZK 1 million at the turn of August and September CZK 5,000 per child. The life and existential minimum has also increased as of 1 January this year and we have also increased by 30 percent of the encore for children. So it is a whole series of steps that aim to be able to support better parents, families. [[16.30 hours]] I will also add an adjustment to this as part of the housing allowance, when we significantly modified the standardizations. This means, today, the vast majority of households, who are in a situation where housing spending is greater than 30% of that household's income, and this is what the state pays for as part of the housing allowance. The adjustment of the standardizations made it clear that the vast, overwhelming majority, more than 85 percent of the households, are really paying what they prove to us that 30 percent of the household's income. With regard to the situation of the singles, the singles, I am discussing one key issue with the Minister of Justice, and that is the stated maintenance. I here for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs want us to be able to add a change to several principles - on the one hand, so that maintenance is set really objectively, so that it is considered that we take into account the profession, the region, the income level for the profession, because today many trials in determining maintenance make decisions that - I am confronted with this - eventually 300 crowns, 500 crowns are nutritious and so on, and so very low amounts, and this does not correspond to the situation of a second parent who does not prove and is not willing to document the actual income that he has, and it is necessary to look for further parameters on how to objectivity. This means that the other parent really participates adequately in the situation of the costs involved in raising and caring for the child. And let's face it, the state here hasn't done enough for this area yet. Just as there is a second problem with maintenance, it is not regularly validated. I'm meeting dozens of moms who say, "We're not doing this because today it means opening a court decision, and that's not worth the nerves and what we're going through. That the state - and I will try to do so - to set up a transparent, predictable mechanism for valorizing maintenance in this country, because it is the very standard of living that affects these parents and their children who are alone in training. When it comes to the question of parenting, let me just remind you, this is far from all parents, it concerns only parents who have children under four years of age, but it is also a fairly large set of people. I have also made it clear in the media at the end of last year and in recent days or weeks that I have the ambition to negotiate with partners in the coalition so that we can raise parenthood so that we can create a better environment for parents who have young children, with the financial resources necessary to ensure quality education, education and conditions for children's development. So even this is one of the priorities for this year in the context of the complexity that we have in connection with, for example, the issue of pensions, raising parents is an important priority for me. Like the second question, this is also an increase in the contribution to care. It is also reflected in the economic situation of our families. So these are two important priorities that I'm going to lead the negotiations and I'm going to want us to be able to raise it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u111	I thank the Minister and the Member is interested in asking an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u112	I certainly thank you, Minister, for mentioning the issue of maintenance here. I am very glad that the Ministry of Labour is working with the Ministry of Justice and that you will also look at this area, because of course it is one of the income of singles, so that is also important. Otherwise, I'm glad you're saying that parental allowance is your priority. I'd just like you to outline a timetable, because, of course, the parents I'm talking to, they've been dealing with financial problems for quite a long time, so, of course, the promise is positive, but if there's any way you can specify the time. And then I'd like to say that she doesn't really have a large part of those parents -- the impact of raising the minimum of living on them is no longer, because they might just miss this one. And these are the parents who already have children, such as the school age, where they are - these are quite challenging, financially demanding things, so that's where they're going to help charity organizations. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u113	Thank you, Madame. The Minister will answer you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u114	Thank you. In conclusion, you ended up with charity organizations and their form of help and so on. I want to say that even in the best social systems, such as the Nordic countries, from which we so often take an example, the state system will never create a network that can cover all the situations and needs. There is always an important space that is being filled by these NGOs, which, say, outside the system, can supplement the system and help addressably where needed. That's what's gonna happen with us. Here in this area, we support the food banks, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture. But to your question: I will try my best to increase the parental contribution this year. I will lead negotiations on this, as I have said before, publicly and in recent days, as well as in some media performances. This debate will not be easy, because the budgetary situation is tense, but we have to realise that this is simply an investment in the future, an investment in our children. It doesn't concern me anymore, I've got kids a little more mature and I don't think we're planning at home, we're more grown-up parents. But I went through the situation myself, and I went into politics in a situation where we already had four children at home, and I know how difficult it is, what it costs to cost and effort. And all the more so I think that despite all the complications we have, it is necessary to prove that this year we have a match and increase parental contribution, so my efforts will be maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u115	Thank you, Minister. I'll read the apologies before we proceed to another interview. He apologizes to Kohaida Michael from 14.30 for working reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana from 16am - family reasons, Patrik Nacher apologizes from 16am for family reasons, Michaela Opltová throughout the day for working reasons, Wenzl Milan from 16am for health reasons and Minister Mikuláš Bek from 16am for working reasons and until 16am for health reasons. And now we would like to discuss the interview number 14 - Mr Richard Brabec will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka on the DPF filter. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u116	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary, thank you for being here for the interpelation. My colleagues and I started with the Ministry of the Environment a few years ago and together with the Ministry of Transport I think that very interesting and useful activities that aimed at reducing emissions from transport, especially passenger transport. We have tightened the limit for dust particles, introduced so-called smoke measurement in diesel cars, we have legally anchored higher fines and lawlessness of so-called DPF filters, or solid particulate filters, because according to expert estimates on Czech roads hundreds of thousands of cars, older cars that have assembled or damaged solid particle filters, and what they then emit is a deadly cocktail of emissions that cannot be compared to what an older car looks like, but well maintained. Unfortunately, this has been happening for a long time, it has been very little controlled, and thanks to our activity together with the Ministry of Transport, a mobile measuring unit may have been purchased. I think a whole range of things started, which tightened up the controls on those vehicles and several pilot projects were carried out. And I wonder, and I would like to ask in the context of those bans, some completely pointless ones that are now coming to us from Brussels, including the future Euro Seven, if these activities continue at the Ministry of the Environment, even in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, and if they are developing in any way, because I believe that they are extremely useful and concern millions of citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u117	Thank you. I ask the Minister for an answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u118	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Brabč, thank you for your interpellation. I want to thank you at the start of the interview because even from the time we were joint colleagues in the government, I remember that actually this issue, let's say, the intervention of technical vehicles, when these DPFs are being dismantled, occurred, it was a very common failure, so it was actually the beginning of steps in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Transport and the police to make systematic changes. Many of them have happened, you have mentioned some of them here, and for this it is really necessary to thank them, because they were things that really are absolutely material, clear, good, reasonable steps in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic and to protect their health. When it comes to the follow-up that is taking place now, for example last year and beyond, definitely here to try to really improve the system, a system that improves control mechanisms so that we can really monitor whether or not these vehicles have been affected, some of them are also focusing on monitoring the level of technical control stations, which is happening in the field. I have information in my background that in 2022 the Ministry of Transport really tightened even more closely the supervision of the technical inspection stations, there were three of them to withdraw the authorisation to carry out technical checks precisely for these reasons and for these errors, because these vehicles found errors in the work of technical inspection stations inspectors. As far as the Ministry of Environment is concerned, logically, we will continue to have the pressure to continue this cooperation with professional organisations such as CITA (?), when the meeting took place on 20 September 2022, the meeting just above the issue of the recognition of vehicles with dysfunctional emission reduction systems. The meeting was attended by colleagues from the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Transport. Here, of course, it is crucial and important that these things are also linked to the conditions for a reasonable renewal of the car park in the Czech Republic, which belongs to one of the oldest, which is why there are also these interventions in these vehicles. At the same time, there is also a question of promoting the development of clean mobility, whether we look at it from the point of view of, say, technological neutrality, that means promoting both electric cars, promoting hydrogen vehicles or supporting other possible technologies. That's what I think it's important to look at it openly. I cannot completely agree here with the mention of the steps and decisions that have been taken at Commission level or Council level, because these were the things that the Czech Government has advocated... from the mandates advocated by the Czech Republic, as well as from the mandates that have already been approved by the previous government, we have not fundamentally deviated there in terms of the ban on fossil fuel combustion engines, who are oriented, we know that there is still a period for evaluation and, where appropriate, a re-evaluation of the 2035 term that is being discussed, so it is not a final decision. As for the other issues of some claims that go very quickly towards technological progress, you also know very well that, for example, in the case of ambition for Euro 7 parameters, the Czech Government and Minister Kupka, who represents the Czech Government at European Union level on this issue, we have clearly said that we really need to look into practice here, into what, on the one hand, the car manufacturers sector is capable of achieving in real terms, at what costs and impacts then for ordinary people in terms of the availability of these vehicles. So we are really trying here to defend, on the one hand, the interests of protecting the health of the people, the interests of the environment, but also some balanced interests of society and our economy. So that's about the answer to your interpellation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u119	I thank the Minister and ask whether the Member is interested in an additional question. He's interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u120	Thank you for your answer. I think or believe that the Czech Government should have made better use of this Presidency in terms of more pressure or more brutal rejection of the Euro 7 because it is now a little late, however luckily other governments have risen against it. But that's more like the edge. I want to show precisely on the example of Euro 7 and this issue of DPF filters how big the difference between some legislation, which, frankly, is essentially purely formal, because the difference between Euro 6 and Euro 7 in terms of quality or what is leaving these cars is far from so great. On the contrary, the really effective solution to the particulate filters, which are literally related to hundreds of thousands of cars, is absolutely essential, and thank you for pushing the car we started, even if it might be unpleasant for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u121	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u122	Thank you. I'm just being very brief. Certainly the tightened surveillance, surveillance and monitoring of the work of the STK will continue, as well as - and these are the activities that the traffic police are dealing with - intensified controls directly in the field. We can still talk in the future about the extent of the increase in borders for these offences, if there is still any higher restriction, this will, of course, continue, as well as the promotion of the development of clean mobility, where today's big limit is that we have, for example, a distribution network for hydrogen. Today this technology is here, there are manufacturers who offer these cars at relatively affordable prices, so that is one of the other things that will move this forward. But I agree that it will be crucial how we will be able to quickly change the car park in the Czech Republic, what the economic situation of our households will be, that is one of the key factors for this area as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u123	Thank you, Minister. We will now address the interview number 15, Mr Lubomír Brož will interpel the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa on the fate of the Villa Bertramka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u124	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to ask you, Minister, about your position on the administration and care of the national cultural heritage, about the Villa Bertramka in Prague 5. Bertramka is a former farmhouse built in the classicist style in the mid-18th century. It is located in Prague Smíchov. In January 2019, the government declared Bertramka a national cultural monument. After 1989, Bertramka was the owner of the Prague 5 district and in December 2009 it took over the keys of Bertramka Mozart's community, which had been suing the state for 18 years for its ownership. However, as is now generally known in public space, Mozart's municipality has not been able to create a dignified and valuable permanent exposition since the villa was taken over in 2009, and to start a whole-week or more permanent operation. Thanks to the long-term bad management of the building, Bertramka has been in almost emergency condition for the last few years. The building has not been heated for several years and the staircase, despite Mozart's efforts, has not been properly repaired to withstand the weather. Homeless people appear more and more frequently on the estate, the garden is neglected, and the place has become increasingly wretched year after year. The current owner obviously has no interest or means and ability to do anything with the state of the cultural monument. However, State and urban authorities have the opportunity to act, the possibility gives them the State Monument Act, where, pursuant to Section 15 (3), it is true that if the owner neglects an immovable cultural monument which is not a state property, permanently its obligations and threatens its preservation, or if he uses a cultural monument contrary to its culturally political significance, historical value or technical state, he may, in the social interest of having no agreement with the owner on its sale to the State, exceptionally a cultural monument on the proposal of the municipal authority, with an extended scope of the decision of the expropriation office, be expropriated. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you. I'm asking if you're considering entering a meeting with the owners of the Bertramka Villa. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Because it's an essential part of making sure there's a process or an expropriation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next time I ask you to keep up the time, I understand you wanted to ask a question. I beg the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u126	Thank you for the floor, Madam First Vice-President, for your indulgence, which allowed the very question which the Member wanted to ask to be raised. The Bertramka settlement in Prague is owned by Mozart's village and is, of course, known for its relationship with Wolfgang Amad Mozart, who lived there several times and finished the opera Don Giovanni. Originally it is, as the MP said, about the wine estate from the end of the 17th century, which was traditionally rebuilt in the second half of the 18th century and underwent small adjustments in the century before and before. [[16.50 hours]] In view of the importance of the estate, it was declared as a national cultural monument by the Government Decree of 28 January 2019. Some renovation and reconstruction works have already been carried out to improve the construction-technical state of the property. The Ministry of Culture continuously monitors the issue of the Bertramka estate, in the past several times it has dealt with suggestions for the state and use of this national cultural monument, often beyond its competence, when, for example, in 2019 the complaint related to black landfills in the immediate vicinity of the settlement was addressed. However, the landfill was located on a private property which was not part of the monument and where the competence of the State Heritage care does not lie, when the office of the city district Prague 5 dealt with the situation. And now, my colleague, through Madam First Vice-President, this is essential. The Ministry of Culture considers, on the basis of its own activities and other information, that the area of this national cultural monument shows some signs of inconclusive maintenance, the restoration of the outdoor staircase is problematic and the fence is damaged on the north and west sides. On the other hand, the buildings in the complex show no significant structural defects that would threaten, damage or significantly devalue the area. Work approved by the binding opinion of the Prague City Hall on the access stairs of the museum was carried out and the above-mentioned fence was corrected by the Prague City Hall, the Department of Monument Care was already involved. It continues to monitor the state of this national cultural monument by an expert organization of monument care, which deals with the owner's range of maintenance of the estate so as not to endanger the cultural and historical values of the monument. In view of the above, the expropriation of this national cultural monument is now completely excluded. As part of the monument care we want to go further to help owners of the Bertramek estate. The Ministry of Culture has already created the prerequisites for financial assistance in the restoration of the Bertramek estate in the past and is now ready to renew this national cultural monument and allocate a financial contribution from its budget from the Ministry's subsidy programmes. Bertramka was included in the architectural heritage rescue programme between 1996 and 1997 with the support of CZK 2 million. The reconstruction of the granary was included in the reconstruction programme for urban conservation and conservation zones in 2009, but almost a half-million-dollar contribution for the Prague 5 district was returned to the Ministry of Culture for this purpose. The Ministry of Culture is also currently prepared to provide funds to Mozartův's municipality to support the restoration of this important national cultural monument, but a particular form of cooperation will have to be agreed mainly with the owner of the Bertramka estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u127	Thank you, Minister. Mr Brož is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u128	Thank you. I appreciate the care of the Ministry of Culture, because workers regularly communicate with the Prague 5 district, I know they're watching. There is the problem that the owners of Mozartův's village do not communicate with anyone, in essence how they were offered the opportunity to participate in grant proceedings from the point of view of the Prague 5 City Council - they simply do not use these things. And the point is, there's some vision, and she invested some 50 million crowns in the city part of Prague 5 before 2009 before Mozartův's community judged it, so it's holding it for a while, and now it's just that maybe we're gonna be ten, fifteen years, twenty years we're gonna be calling ourselves, it's not so bad, it's not so bad yet, because it's still decaying, and in 20 years, we might be demolishing it because of static problems. So that's why I'm pointing it out here. I'm sure we'll keep an eye on it, and I'm counting on the Ministry of Culture to keep helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam First Vice-President. Now beyond this carefully prepared answer, because Mr Brož's question responds to a topic that resonates in monument care. I think the public media has been doing this recently. The people involved are following not only the topic of conservation of the Bertramek estate, but actually the conditions that rule with the owner, so to speak most general. You, my colleague, through the Vice-President, are, of course, right in that it is a valuable monument, that it is certainly appropriate to help here, but conservation - and now, in the sense of State Monument Care as a body performing conservation care under the law - so the Ministry as a subsidy provider is simply in a difficult situation. The monument, the Bertramka estate, it just has its owner. He is obliged to carry out the duties imposed on him by the law. It is not a case that the owner is untraceable or that there is no communication with the owner at all, there is simply a specific situation. I very much appreciate the fact that even the Prague 5 district - I was in the last parliamentary term, meaning the term of office in Prague 5, in contact with its representatives, they also perceive it very painfully. I believe that this situation will be corrected, and as I have already said, my ministry is ready to help in its grant programs, if necessary. How we all believe we can find a way to restore the Bertramka trajectory or the trajectory of the Bertramka development, let's say, in an upward direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u131	Thank you, Minister. We will now proceed to the discussion of interpelation number 16. Mrs Andrea Babišová will intersect Minister Vlastimil Válek on the protection of the health of workers and Mr Kettner will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u132	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Allow me, Minister Válek, to interpel you today on the health of employees. We all know that since January of this year the decree has started to apply, which has in fact abolished the obligation of periodic occupational examinations, was held in the first category of work and in non-profit professions then in the second category. We now know that work is being carried out at the Ministry of Health for the abolition of compulsory entrance examinations for the purpose of ensuring that a person applying for employment is not included in the work, which would not correspond to the classification of the expected work. You have already announced these upcoming changes in your January performance this year at a January meeting where you justified them as - I quote - reducing unnecessary paperwork. In this context, you also mentioned that you assume the abolition of health certificates, which are very important especially for work in food operations. All these measures should be on a voluntary basis, according to the authors' assumptions, and entry checks should perhaps even be conducted and sufficient only to give the applicant an honest declaration that he is fit for the job. I do not want to touch the citizens of the Czech Republic in the conscience, but I think we all know very well what happens when a person demonstrates everything only with an honest statement. I am afraid that there will not be a citizen of the Czech Republic who would actually state all his health restrictions and risks and diseases in an honest statement, and this would endanger his admission to work. I ask, Minister, if this is the way... [[Time.]] I didn't ask any questions - please, I need to answer what makes you want to cancel at least the mandatory entrance exams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u133	Thank you, Madame. Once again, I appeal to respect the time, or you can ask the question in the supplementary question. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Vlastimil Válek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the decree on occupational health services and certain types of medical care, i.e. Decree No. 79/2013, on the implementation of certain provisions of Act No. 373/2011 - and I would like to draw attention to data on specific health services - has been given since 1. 1. 2023 several changes. First of all, the determination of periodic occupational examinations has been changed. The optional access to periodic inspections for risky work is now available, i.e. for category I to II work. However, the exception is work at professional risk and work involving risk factors which exclude or restrict health fitness for work, as set out in the Annex to the Decree, when these factors occur. However, the employer may still decide to maintain inspections for such risky work, and the employee may also require such examinations. Both are possible, the law doesn't forbid it. The treatments described above are not related to entry examinations, but exclusively periodic. [[17,00 hours]] Entry examinations are not affected by the amendment and are still mandatory. Access shall continue to apply if the employer suspects that there may have been a loss or change in the medical fitness to work with the staff member, he may require an emergency medical examination to be carried out. It is important to note that this adjustment concerns exclusively periodic and not input occupational examinations. What's the target? The aim is at least to get closer to what is standard in the rest of Europe for some reasonable measure. In the Czech Republic and in some other countries, and there gradually managed to eliminate it, remained actually, and now I'm not saying that it is bad or good, but a sort of postcommunist relic of a paternal state that de facto wanted to decide what a person can do or cannot do. Of course, it has its advantages hypothetically if the elders of you remember the puppies who in ninth grade said what the man can do, but also what he can't do. This, of course, is possible in the regime that was here before 1989, in a democratic society it is a problem, because the risk is borne on one side by a full-time employee and, on the other, by a full-time employer. It must be some sort of consensual matter. Of course, an employee needs to know about his health, but he knows that if he's going to visit, if he's taking part in everything that's covered by health insurance today. But if, say, an employee who has long-term problems with back pain still wants to do some work that is not appropriate in his case, then frankly, the state should not be the one who forbids him. It's his free decision, he should be informed of his risks, and it certainly is. And on the other hand, the employer should know these risks, because the problem is rather on the employer's side. Then, of course, such an employee can claim that his health has been compromised by carrying out a certain activity, and then he can claim compensation and so on. The roads are clear. We decided to stick to the very marginal group of the European Union, because we would normally cancel the twos and reach into the threes. But basically, we're planning four things. The first thing - we plan to cancel entry medical examinations, and this concerns category I, where we are currently having discussions - is quite logical, because there is no risk for this category, which does not mean that the employer cannot want to have an entrance examination for the very reasons that they protect themselves so that some who might have problems performing a profession do not get in there. The second step we are planning is to change the category of work I, II, III, IV, which is very anomalous and doesn't really know public health today, that public health, that's where hygiene has been transformed in most of Europe. So the discussion will be very detailed there, it will be expert, we will move forward in this discussion, I hope, to some recommendation that we would like to transform into regulations. It is related to the law on greater interconnection of hygiene, the State Health Institute, the Scientific Council, as is the case with the Kochův Institute, which I would like to present to the Chamber of Deputies in the first half of this year, which may now end with a very broad debate that was stormy at the beginning, but now we may have convinced both the Hygiene and Hygiene unions, and all those that it is not about disturbing hygiene, but it is about unification, say, linking hygiene with the State Health Institute. I suppose there'll be a follow-up question, and then I'll continue my answers on food cards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u135	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u136	I'll be very quick. Of course, I understand all of this here that there is a need to make changes about other European countries, to move forward a little bit, yes, as you mentioned, we have a communist past here, and in that we have all these mandatory entrance exams and so on. I'm just worried that today, when we discuss raising retirement, it's going to be a large number, given that it's going to be on a voluntary basis, or whether or not the employer is going to require that we just increase the percentage of work-related severe injuries or perhaps fatal. And I'm really afraid that people are gonna keep trying to keep working for the longest time they're gonna try to cover up their problems, but employees aren't gonna ask them to do the entrance exams because of that, of course, it's kind of costing money. [[employers?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u137	Thank you. The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u138	Once again, I would like to repeat that an entry and periodic examination may be required by both the employee and the employer - both sides are partners in this regard, and of course this does not involve any work involving any identified risks identified by hygiene. We must not forget that the role of hygiene is strong here. And I would like us to change the methodology so that we can identify risky jobs from risky jobs, and not just categorize them, because let's say the secretary's work, if I overdo it, can be, now I'm overreacting, risky work and secretary's work can be totally risky. Probably a gym teacher is at a different risk than a Czech teacher when we were talking about school law today. That means a group of experts, along with employers, are focusing on this here. I think it is in the interests of employers, in the great interest of employers, that employees should be okay. And as far as food stamps are concerned, I'm gonna use the last minute. The problem with food certificates is their validity. The fact that someone was healthy at the time of exposure to a food card is quite useless a week after being issued. And since here, we talked about it in one of those interpellings, there's a problem with registers and some other things, so perhaps electronic records and the connection of the law that I would like to bring to an end, and I'm sorry that it didn't happen last year, will lead to the fact that this information should be available under certain conditions where it is needed. That's why food cards are a surplus from this point of view. On the contrary, the employer will need to know that the person he employs, including the temp, is not really a risk to his clients, because he is the one who is then criminally punished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u139	Thank you, Minister. Now, we're going to do a 17th interpellation. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will interpel the Minister of Education Vladimír Balaš on the promotion of political parties in schools. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u140	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Absent Minister, on the basis of your recommendation regarding my earlier interpelation to promote political parties in schools, I actually turned to the Czech School Inspection and that response shocked me a little bit. Among other things, of course, I'll give it to you. It says, for example, that it is "the fulfillment of the educational areas of man together. or a civic educational basis'. It further states that "it is not forbidden to include in education and political issues, not only at the theoretical level, but also with regard to current events in the Czech Republic and the world. Conversely, the framework education programmes presume this directly. After all, the criteria for assessing the conditions of the course and results of education and school services by the Czech School Inspection approved by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports emphasize this directly. Therefore, there can also be and are used in education examples of current political programmes, political campaigns, and often also debates with political representatives are carried out. However, this must always be done under the strict preservation of an unbiased, objective approach, mutual respect, respect and opinion tolerance." Well, I can't quite imagine how we're going to prevent his political promotion in a debate with a political representative. Who will accurately judge whether this is an objective approach, especially in today's times when we have some political parties that are fine, some are forbidden to walk slowly and walk the streets. Finally, it is said that some suggestions and complaints about the promotion of political parties and movements were found to be justified. So sometimes it's a problem, sometimes it's not? I therefore expect a clear answer as to whether the Minister considers it more important to comply with a clearly defined law or some interpretations of the Ministry of Education or the Czech School Inspection. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Balaš is excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We would now proceed to interpelation number 18. Mrs Lesenská will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka in the matter of systemization in the Ministry of MPSV on 1 April 2023. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues, I had a very short interview. I thought I was gonna get an answer for her today... [[Minister Jurečka approaches the speaker's desk.]] And I will, thank you very much, Minister. The systemization of service and jobs took place on 1 January this year and took place at all ministries that requested it and which needed any changes. As far as I know, the subsequent change in systemization should take place on 1 April again this year. I don't know if it concerns all resorts or just some, but it's ready for MPSV. If you could confirm this to me and if so, I hope it is not a secret to which organisations or parts of the Ministry are concerned. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u143	Thank you, Madame. Minister Marian Jurečka will answer you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u144	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Members, thank you for the interview. Well, I have to say, it's a standard process. As of 1 January of each year and in the past, adjustments were made to the systemization of individual ministries and individual service offices. So did we at MPSV. For 1 January of this year, I have asked all my representatives at that time to come and propose the adjustments needed to ensure that the quality of work and the efficiency of work are reflected exactly in the way in which it needs to be adapted to the functioning of each section. That's how we made adjustments more or less across the Ministry. I think there's been some minor adjustment in almost every section, but in some sections, there's been a cancellation or transfer of posts. Overall, our department has reduced the number of staff posts and the number of officials. Similarly, a small system will be prepared for 1 April. Yeah, that's right, we're planning on doing some small things. And here I'm saying that I'm assuming that it's going to be about some of the modifications that are going to be mostly about the Office of Labour. I have now asked the Chief Executive Officer Karel Trpkoš, who is now in charge of the Labor Office to present this proposal, because there are some systemic problems in terms of procedures and communications to be dealt with between the Ministry, the Directorate-General and then the Directorate-General and then individual regional workplaces and so on, so there will be some minor adjustments to this agenda. I don't have a specific final form for the whole resort today, there may still be some minor adjustments to some other subordinate organizations, but there is nothing out of my mind right now that would be approved by the board meeting or by me beyond what I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u145	Thank you, Minister. Is the Member interested in the supplementary question? He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u146	Thank you for your answer, Minister. By stating that you don't have any details at this time, I would have one request. If, to a greater extent, the change that is now being made will concern the authorities of work, whether some of the regions that need it could be strengthened, so that they can help Prague better than it does up to now, and to strengthen really the article that is in contact with the client. That's all I have to say right now, too, because I don't have the details I thought I might find out today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u147	Thank you, Madame. The Minister is interested in an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u148	As I have said, the details greater could not be said, because it is not decided, it is not closed, and even I am unable to say more at the moment with all possible openness, because I do not know more about this question. But about what you said in that conclusion, and I think it's important. I have asked the Chief Executive of the Labour Office to present to me, by the end of February, a proposal to stabilise the employment offices and to strengthen them, with the fact that I am prepared to take that step, which would be very quick and operational, that I would turn to other senior colleagues in the government, in order to allocate some number of civil servants that we can temporarily transfer under the Civil Service Act to assist the employment authorities. Then we're ready to do it. I have also provisionally registered the willingness of some of my colleagues to be able to help us in this way from other state institutions. The help would be not in the order of the weeks, but for example for four, five, six months to really stabilize it. That was something I asked for during last fall, and I never received such a foundation. But now I believe that this could really help. I'll just make a note. It cannot be said that in general the situation in Prague at the offices of work is bad and that in all workplaces benefits are registered and paid after deadlines. But there are workplaces here, which surprisingly despite all the intensity and strain that also came there, manage and pay in terms. Then there are workplaces that are extremely beyond those deadlines and, of course, we are also dealing with this so that we can adjust this in the course of March. I'll also make a comment while we're at the employment office. For 20 years, no one has done a mapping of the need for the employment office in the territory in terms of demography, the need for social support and the like to project it into systemization. That wasn't happening. That's what we need to do now, and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u149	Thank you, Minister. Now we're going to discuss interpelation number 19. Mrs Lenka Dražilová will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka on the issue of parental contribution. The Member is absent, so her interpellation is failing. Mr Michal Ratiborský, who was drawn in 20th place and will interpel the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová on the purchase of combat vehicles, is now coming up, and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u150	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Secretary, in addition to the contract for 159 light-duty vehicles, where a tender is announced, until which candidates are to report after a delay until the end of February, the Ministry of Defence is quietly preparing to purchase 24 pieces of similar type of military technology. At the end of January, according to information from well-informed sources, the College of Defence approved a contract called Fighting Vehicle, in a non-public regime. It has 24 vehicles for 601. group of special forces and the contract is directed by direct contact with the company LPP s.r.o. Armored by Jiří Sauer, who until January 2020 worked together with the first Deputy Minister of Defence František Šulc. The same type of vehicle from the same manufacturer, i.e. British HMT 400 by Supacat, whose representative in the Czech Republic is LPP, is also a favourite for large contracts at the LÚV, especially after the appointment of a new director of the Military Technical Institute. Vehicles for the 601. group raise a number of questions and reminiscences. However, the exact price in this contract naturally differs from the specific requirements of 601. and the accessories it orders. In 2011, three vehicles for deployment in Afghanistan sought special forces under which they fell. The vehicles were to come out at 99 million crowns, i.e. 33 million crowns per unit. The choice fell to type Supacat HMT 400. But apparently, the Ministry failed as a result of media pressure, when it was stressed that it was an expensive project and that the mission in Afghanistan was not a sufficient reason. The Supacat vehicles were therefore not purchased. But interest in 601. skss for heavier vehicles with resistance to mines and improvised explosive devices did not disappear. This led to the selection procedure, which was attended mainly by two types: Nimr in the submission of VOP CZ and Perun by SVOS. It was still a very low number of pieces, a total of only four vehicles. The GTC was excluded from the bid for 133.5 million for failure to award and succeeded by SVOS [[Time.]] Sorry, I'm just gonna ask you a question in that case. Madam Secretary, can you explain to us how the contract is carried out and why we do not have enough information on this project, which looks at least suspicious from my point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u151	Thank you. The Minister is not present, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure you will be answered in writing within 30 days. Colleagues, co-workers, I'd like to ask you to possibly train your length of interpelation and fit into that time so that we don't overwhelm. Thank you so much for understanding. Now we would interpelate, respectively on the turn comes the interpelation number 21, Patrik Nacher. The Member will intersect the Minister of Interior Vít Rakušan in the matter Information on the fight against misinformation. The Member is not present, i.e. his interpellation is failing. Mr Roman Kubíček, who was drawn in 22nd place, is coming. He will intersect Minister Ivan Bartoš on the IROP subsidy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, we have already talked about this, it concerns the challenges of the IROP, and I have received materials from school directors, mayors from individual municipalities, and I have already met some of them, and it concerns, in particular, the submission of an application for support under the 111th IROP call. They complain about bias when entering and entering the system and complain about unequal conditions when applying. Then I will hand over the whole text to the Minister, which will be available, and I need to ask in the global what measures he has taken in order not to play the role of timelessness, that is, who has a free system and can log in very quickly and who clicks there first, secondly, so that the whole system is functional and easy access to the system is allowed, and how the submission of these requests is equalized in order to compare the conditions where, above all, the main role should be the quality of the individual process and not the rate of entry. Of course, I also have a lot of materials, there are various screens that show in the global that the people who entered at the time of the trial were unable to connect to the system and failed them. And we would find some inequality, where the most projects I think have won the South Moravian Region, and some regions haven't gotten to it at all. So please have the Minister answer these questions to me. And then there was one more question that they have to increase allocation for these projects within their projects. Well, that's probably not gonna be that simple, because if I have the right information, then actually the allocation and the ratio to those applications was six times bigger. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u153	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš gets the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u154	Dear Member, you have interrogated me on the so-called clicking approach to the challenges of the IROP. I want to start by saying that I reject the clicking challenges and I do not consider it the right system. In all challenges where this is possible, we therefore reschedule the conditions so that so-called clicks do not occur in the future. For some challenges, which, however, are prepared long in advance and are actually known for the amount of money versus the number of candidates who are significantly above them, it is very difficult to change the conditions so that the shot is narrowed down even before the call itself comes out. I would try to describe quickly the current state of affairs and materials that you talked about, whether related to the challenge or even with those parameters, of course, I have at my disposal and I also communicate, say, complaints and complaints and we deal with them. In the IROP 22127 approved approval system only ongoing calls are used, i.e. calls which do not, by their nature, evaluate the parameters. Similarly, this is needed in the environmental operational programme, there is also a great deal of interest, and in other programmes, because the evaluation challenges were often referred to as subjectively evaluated and at the same time the evaluation period of a larger number of challenges has historically reached, for example, 18 months, which actually hindered the projects. To date, we have announced 52 calls with the allocation of CZK 65 billion. There are 1,580 projects and already 31 billion are IROP projects, including this challenge. Those clicking challenges were, in essence, if I use this term, four, two cyber security challenges and two elementary school challenges, where there was always a triple overhang of the request over the allocation of challenges. Thus, while the 52 announced challenges, which was 48, took place in a standard manner, with the four mainly because of the fact that the gesturers of individual topics, because we are only administrators, set the conditions so that it really was precisely targeted and the projects were simply below the limit of total volume. As a managing body, we are not fully competent in the field of education and in the call for schools you incriminate, which is unfortunately the only major investment programme in the Czech Republic. We basically bought such parameters that the criteria met schools without more precise targeting and limitation, which, for example, in kindergarten we got well pre-prepared from the gesturer, and this did not happen there. I would like to say that perhaps the criterion is - the so-called push-button threatens if there is too much interest in too little money. So the first solution is to really target it, put the parameters in such a way that it's not for everyone, which, of course, for the projects that were prepared in the IROP, is a problem, because then you're called who changes the rules in the course, even if it eliminates a certain step, a certain number of applicants. I would just like to say that when we wanted to take this measure, there were several meetings at the Ministry of Regional Development: rather than restricting parameters. Let's go to the risk of it being one in ten, but don't change the parameters in success to the challenge. We're where this would be at risk - we're actually reprogramming that particular challenge. We put them away. I think it's desirable at the moment. And the second question that was raised by you: money remained in the IROP programme in the previous period at the end, and therefore, in fact, all those applicants were finally satisfied in their applications for schools. At this point, the beginning of the new period is, so we don't know how it will be drawn to 2027, so it is possible that money can be transferred from this, but there is also a parameter of so-called thematic concentration. That means you can't put any money from one program into another, you have to hold that concentration. And I, as the House came to an end here, when the challenges took place, of course, another option in this type of challenge is to use the money from the state budget in some debate on the satisfaction of this need. However, I would point out once again in particular towards the partners in the regions and the municipalities and for me there was an apology about the technical readiness, the application system for restarting the call, which also happens in other departments, perhaps not in so many expected titles. Then the system was running well, and if it was showing any kind of temporal pitch, we normally settle a claim in this direction. [[Time!]] I'm sorry, there won't be any more push-ups, and it's about targeting and the total amount of resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u155	I thank the Minister, the Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u156	I thank the Minister for his reply. I think it would be good if he answered the mayor's question as well. I'm gonna hand over the materials just to make sure you look at it -- maybe you do, I'm not saying you don't. And then one question that will probably be very interesting: I had a visit to the mayors from around Prague and I think that this is also the problem of Brno, and they got into trouble with building new capacities of schools that work, and at current prices it got to the fact that the allocation, which provides them with individual subsidies, is only 30 percent. It's very tragic for the budgets of these municipalities, so I wanted to ask if you're going to work on any improvements, because the situation is really coming up and it's going to be problematic. Madam President certainly knows his stories with schools in Central Bohemia, and it was very necessary and we are back there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u157	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u158	I'll still respond. I believe that as the ministry not only about applicants, but there is also some petition that probably arose in the field of the Senate, which brings together the mayors, so each individual request or some irregularity, of course, is settled. And even if someone doesn't go through with the top successful projects, of course, the bar is moving. Our goal is to move it forward ideally at some point in time so that everyone will be satisfied. On the question you have: the challenge was divided, there was also a challenge that went to ITI, which are the big agglomerations, and the Ministry of Education, and I will not speak here for another resort, writing a call on the circuits around large cities. Again, it is a question of the finances that are there. We discussed this, I think, even on K5 in the presence of Minister Balaš, there was some increase in total allocation, but the need is really significant. In the matter of iropový's subsidies, I also proposed this in the first call for schools, we wanted to have, as a variant, some financial instrument from the National Development Bank, the possibility of long money, a preferential loan as a combination of total allocation. That, at least because the program already had those parameters, has not been taken into account, but for example on the issue of national titles, if there is less money or participation is higher than the municipalities can afford, we want to include the possibility of drawing even some, say, specific loan tied to the type of investment. I'll just say again, the Ministry of Regional Development is not the Ministry that builds schools, but the money can also be used for some capacity expansion. But it should not be the main instrument in state policy and we are working on it in the government, including the important role of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u159	Thank you, Minister. Before I give the floor to the next interviewer, I will read an apology: Mrs Dražilová apologizes from 15 to 18 o'clock for medical reasons. And we will now proceed to the interview number 23, Mrs Ivana Mádlová will interpel Mr Marian Jurečka on the Integration of Refugees from Ukraine into the social system of the Czech Republic. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u160	Madam President, colleagues, Minister, we are at a time when Russia's invasion of Ukraine has lasted for a year. It is not directly on our territory, but we can see the impact in many areas and practically every day. One of these impacts is also the need to provide support to Ukrainian refugees seeking protection in the Czech Republic, and also to receive it, are here under temporary protection. Natural solidarity was created, but also official aid paid from the state budget. You've been planning since 1. 1. next year, integrate Ukrainian refugees affected by war into the Czech social system. Of course, this can be understood because the humanitarian benefits cannot be continued. However, I would like to ask whether you or your resort have the cost predictions for the involvement of these Ukrainian refugees in the Czech social system, or whether the benefits paid from the Ukrainian or EU party will be refinancing. I believe that it will not be easy to set up in any way. Another question is the integration of Ukrainian refugees into our social system. It will certainly not be difficult even in financial terms and organizational, but also in personnel terms. And that's why I'd like to have an answer to the question of whether or not the capacity of these authorities will be ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u161	Thank you, Madame. I ask Minister Marian Jurečka to respond to this interpelation. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u162	Thank you. As far as the adaptation and integration of Ukrainian refugees are concerned, I must say that from the point of view - I will begin with, say, the plane of normal life - there has really been a very good involvement of these people in Czech society. The vast majority of children enrolled and went to schools, more than 190 000 refugees from Ukraine have started working on the Czech labour market since the beginning of the war, and to date it is about 95 000 active people on the labour market who work here. Last year, their contributions only to the health insurance system were over CZK 4 billion and their contributions to the social insurance system and in the tax area there was approximately another CZK 4 billion, which means that these people here only made direct contributions of over CZK 8 billion. In addition to the fact that we paid some 8.7 billion crowns for the humanitarian benefit last year, it can be seen that these people are really adapting very quickly. And of this, medium- and long-term, they will be very clearly beneficial for the Czech society as well as for the Czech economy. I will also underline that they also fill in pretty often long-term unsolved labour market issues where we lack people, such as health care, social care and other parts of the labour market. Regarding the question of how we will proceed from the point of view of our social system, we assume that the regime that we are running now, the humanitarian levy, the solidarity household, and now the adjustment that is incorporated into the Lex Ukraine V, which will also take into account vulnerable groups of people there, so I would like to put an end to this system at the end of this year and the people who will then remain there to be the standard clients of our social system to make the same demands, the same deadlines, the same processes. I am aware that today the burden of the Office of Labour is enormous, but at the same time we are preparing a number of changes in the area of both digitization and procedures and processes, which will first of all be reflected by next year in order to be able to have the system simplified for both Czech clients and then for these refugees, and thanks to this, we will create capacity to manage this, so that we do not burden Czech clients. Here I expect that we can improve the situation for Czech citizens in the next few weeks, especially now during the month of March, April, in order to really improve discipline and compliance with deadlines for the payment of benefits of citizens of the Czech Republic. As far as financial claims are concerned, we assume that they will decrease not only this year, but also next year, because we see it in the data. When we look at the development of, for example, the use of humanitarian and solidarity household benefits, in both cases, there have been some reductions since the holidays. Just to remind you, the biggest peak was somewhere over 240,000 requests for humanitarian benefits, and the drop is now below 100,000. So these people really also show that they are actually coming to the labour market, they are active, so we expect that the amount will actually fall significantly quickly, we will have people in that perspective - really those who can't work objectively, either they have small children, or they are persons with some type of handicap, or people of senior age. As far as cooperation with the Ukrainian party is concerned, of course, we have an ambition to get into practice and I have agreed with the Minister on a visit to Kiev that they should be able to start providing us with information about what financial support is paid by the Ukrainian Government's budget, because she pays both pensions and any other social support. The Ukrainian Government is unable to monitor who is or is not on the territory of Ukraine. We want to pair the data with each other, and then maybe we expect to deduct from our social support the income that comes from the Ukrainian side. So we would really be fair to make it transparent also from the point of view of the Czech taxpayer, let this help really go where it is urgently needed. So these are the things we're preparing, but how quickly the Ukrainian side will be able to provide us with this data, I can't answer that here. We're trying to, these meetings should take place -- the technical one about how to transmit the data -- now sometime in the next few weeks. We are trying to do this, but my colleagues, who are to ensure this, do not yet have a fixed deadline for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u163	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. The honourable Member has an interest in asking an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u164	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. So I suppose you'll want to use the international agreements that we have with the Ukrainian side in terms of pension payments, disability pensions and so on, but it's also a practical aspect for me now that I can think of a specific example of pensions, because I don't know if they have any pension in Ukraine other than ours - or how this is going to be counted when the Ukrainian senior, who stays here, how it's going to be calculated. Or then it will also be necessary to use residential facilities, homes for seniors, homes with a special regime, because of course he will be able to use these services - and it is quite all right, I am not questioning their integration and assistance - but you are looking for every crown now, fighting for education, now we will be dealing with pension valorization next week, maybe it will also go to valorization of state insured people, or you are looking for every crown in the state budget, and I have not yet got the answer to the question, so if you already have an idea of how much it will cost, because you already have only three quarters of a year to do it. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u165	Thank you, Madame. The Minister will answer you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u166	I think anyone who's really assessing the situation knows that I'm not able to give you the exact number for this year or next year. I have said an estimate that there will be a gradual significant reduction in the cost of a group of all war refugees who have come from Ukraine. Some of them are coming back to us, too. If the development of war does not change in any dramatic way, then there should be no significant increase in incoming ones, so I assume that there will be a relatively significant reduction in costs. Last year I quantified them, the costs were CZK 8.7 billion. I can't exactly tell you today if it's going to be 20, 30 or 40 percent lower this year and how it's going to be written by next year, but we're doing everything we can to make this system as transparent, as addressable as possible, to really assess the real income of this person in the Czech Republic and also from Ukraine. [[17.40 hours]] And I just want to say that I was talking about a system in terms of state social support or material distress. The pension and disability pension agenda is a bit more demanding discipline in terms of how contractual relationships on recognition and payout are set up, so we will also work on this topic. Now the rollover for me is directed primarily to the area of state social support, which means that the humanitarian benefit is no longer managed in such a separate way after that, but to become part of the instruments that we have in state social support and in material need.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u167	Thank you, Minister. And now we are going to address Mrs Mádlová's 24 interview again. He will intersect the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek on European Space for Health Data. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u168	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Minister, I would like to ask about the European regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning a completely new collection of health data, and this space is called the European Health Data Area. Yes, it is now in negotiations in the European Parliament. I am in contact with one of our MEPs where we are discussing this, and I wanted to ask if you are already taking any steps in this regard, such as professional negotiations, whether you are in contact with your MEPs and discussing access or the entire agenda of primary and secondary data. For me, at present or at present, it is mainly secondary use of data, because it is a relatively revolutionary approach to sensitive data of every person, and as it seems, so far without our consent, without the consent of the individual, access to relatively sensitive and extensive data, such as genetic data, genomic data, which is a set of all genetic information of the person, or proteomic data concerning proteins or proteins of the organism, or human, could be electronic health data from biobanks, from specialised databases, but also data with an impact on health, including social, professional status, environmental, behavioral. So I wanted to ask you if you need to have some DPIA processed under GDPR, which means an impact assessment on the protection of sensitive data, and what you are doing in this step now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u169	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, and through you, Madame. What you've outlined, I'm guessing it'll come to a ten-year shake sometime, rough guess. It must be said that this revolutionary legislative proposal was presented by the European Commission - so far the Chamber of Deputies, Parliament - on 3 May 2022. It is based on a strategy for data which aims to create common European spaces for free movement of data in the European Union for individual strategic sectors and health care has become the first where such data space is proposed. That's definitely something that's definitely right. In the Czech Republic, this debate takes place, as far as I know, fifteen years at the level of universities, scientific institutes. It was launched by having a debate at the Constitutional Court, who owns the data, whether it belongs to a health care professional, an insurance company or a patient, and who can decide about the data. And there are countries that - typically Finland - have moved the debate far away. European Health Data Space is some kind of common data storage plan where it is not yet clear exactly what form the data would be in, how it would be structured. So far, the debate has not moved at all to the level to which the data would be, and so far, there is some consensus that it is certainly not wrong for some types of use to be available together in some space, nor has the debate started about who would pay for all this and what would actually drive those data producers to provide it in that space, and how would the patient's consent be obtained to provide the data at all, because the patient is the source of the data in general in the healthcare sector, and the patient's data belongs to the patient, and the patient decides what is happening in any form. Whatever is happening in the Czech health system is covered by public health insurance. This means, if anything were to happen beyond what is being paid for, it would either have to be covered in some other way - the private sector, hard to say by whom, or it would have to become part of the health system, which is excluded, because the provision of data would certainly not serve that purpose. Thus, patients across the European Union have a fundamental problem with accessing their health data, despite GDPR, which grants citizens the right to access their data, including those of health. This means that this is a matter that needs to be dealt with, because the movement of citizens around Europe is huge and they basically have no way of getting to their data that belongs to them. The problem also lies in scientific and research use, not even from the point of view of grants, but from the point of view that, for example, rare diseases, if data is not centralized, clinical studies cannot be conducted and treatment protocols cannot be standardised, especially in small countries with fewer patients with this disease. Of course, there is a huge potential for health care, because the European Union is rich in data, and this could lead to an improvement in prevention, diagnosis, but above all in the treatment of diseases, because unlike Europe, The United States has this kind of data used, just like other big countries like China. Moreover, the covid-19 pandemic has shown that current and reliable health data are key to ensuring an effective response to health threats, and has also shown that the importance and benefits of digital health services are absolutely essential. The problem is that the data has to be standardised, it has to be validated, and it has to be parametrized and discussed in some way. And what was discussed under our Presidency was one section of the parametricisation of the data. In my opinion, the debate will be completed at some horizon of the year, year and half about parametrization of the data, what format the data should be, what standard data protocol should be and so on. Then there will be a much more complex debate about who the data is to be used for and for whom they are to serve. I am convinced that we will find a very quick consensus that they should serve for the benefit of the patients, and if the patient wants the data to be used when it moves in Europe, it will not be a problem. It will be more difficult to find use for scientific and research purposes - if it is the nonprofit of the organization, scientific research institutes, it will be easier. If it has anything to do with commerce, it'll be more complicated. I can't imagine a simple consensus to use those data in the farm industry. And then there's the third debate, and it's going to be about protecting this data. Then it will be the fourth, and I would like to add that, if you have an additional question, in the next answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u171	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u172	Mr. Secretary, it's been in effect since 2026. I don't know if you've read the directive or not. I read it with its annexes, and I got an interpretation of cybernetics and GDPR. It's not gonna be that easy at all. Yes, I'm not questioning rare diseases at all, that's all right, but that's the consent. This means that all of these data are to be accessed by a European office that will assess without your consent whether or not all of these data that I have said here and there are many more, without your consent, will be passed on or not. And I think that on this subject it would really be necessary to open up a wider discussion with experts, whether from health care, cybernetics, GDPR and I do not know - those who have something to say about it, of course there is artificial intelligence and so on. It is, of course, a very, very complex subject that is not easy to grasp. I wish it was in ten years. I will just welcome it, because it will guarantee that it will actually be discussed properly. [[Time.]] So, once again, I ask if, in this regard, you are communicating in any way with the European Parliament, in which it is now. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u173	Thank you. Please, Minister, are you interested in an answer? You do. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u174	Not only have I read the directive, but I had to defend the directive within the Presidency, so I think there is no one in this past who knows it better than I do. And there is absolutely no need to debate the directive with the European Parliament, because, above all, there must be at least the basic consent of the countries of the European Union, the health ministers who have to approve it, and the consent is not even close to consensus. It's the same distance, the date 2026, even if such, say, a dream team exists - a dream, not a team, but a dream plan exists. The idea that we will have, say, a valid directive on medical devices three years ago - we are still putting it off because one thing is an ambitious plan and the other is the technical implementation of the plan. [[17.50 hours]] I do not see a big problem in the debate on GDPR, on data protection, because I think that in this respect most European Union countries are much harder than the Czech Republic, and the data are much better protected. What can happen in the Czech Republic is unthinkable in most countries of the European Union. On the contrary, we are pushing very hard to tighten this up here. This has not been entirely a priority in previous periods, and I, on the contrary, have been very intensively debating with the Office for Personal Data Protection. What I see as a problem is a real problem, for which there is not even a hint of a solution, who will finance it, because we are not talking about small amounts, but we are talking about tens of billions of euros. The second thing that's gonna make the provider or what's gonna make those workplaces get the data is to send it somewhere. We could have a very detailed discussion about this right now. I have the advantage of starting a European group back in the years ago in charge of standardization of DICOM. The debate has moved on after 15 years. I think the debate here is going to be dramatically more difficult.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u175	Thank you, Minister. We will now proceed to oral questioning number 25. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka on the issue of pension valorisation. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u176	Dear Minister, last week, after the government's meeting, you presented your plan to reduce the June pension valorisation. By law, our pensioners are entitled to this because inflation exceeded the rate foreseen by law. Within 50 days, you are required by law to issue a government order to which pensioners will be added as much as they are legally entitled. The purpose of the legal regulation is not to reduce their purchasing power to pensioners at rising prices in the economy. Literally, food prices, drug prices, and housing costs increase every day. Our seniors have to double-turn each crown. In such a situation, will you write in the legislative documents that pensioners as an overall socio-economic group are now the best income-protected population? Do you think that they should be inter-generationally compatible with their children and grandchildren and accept the fact that you will take away part of what they are legally entitled to? They were already with us. They've been paying all their lives, raising those kids. Minister, there has been an increase in inflation, measured by the statistical office, and thus fulfilled the requirements laid down by the law. Your terms are met, all conditions are met, the claim is made, and now all you have to do is pay off. Does this process seem fair to you? I just need a yes or a no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u177	Thank you, Madame. The Minister will answer you. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u178	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mrs Balaštíková, thank you for the interview, because you have mentioned a few things that are really important to put into context. When we look at what you have quoted from the explanatory report that seniors in the Czech Republic have been the most and best protected group in terms of inflation in recent months at record inflation, this is the fact and the fact that I am happy to document here on concrete examples of concrete facts and figures. When we look at the last year and a half, that is, we will compare the period when Petr Fiala's government came in, December 2021, the average amount of pensions against the average wage was less than 41 percent. If we take the period of the last four valorizations plus the June one, based on the reduced valuation formula, the average pension in this country will reach over the limit of CZK 20,000 and it will exceed 50 per cent relative to the average wage. In about a year and a half, pensions in this country will rise by 31 percent. Those are indisputable facts. I totally respect the merit of today's seniors for what they did to this country when they were active working people. I greatly appreciate the fact that we have been raised by our generation today. I was from a large family myself - my parents had five children, there are five children. But there is one key thing that needs to be realized. With their contributions, they paid for their parents' and grandparents' pensions, and today we are creating financial resources for their pensions, our parents' and grandparents' today. This is how the whole principle of the pension system has been set up since its inception. This is the key reason why we, as a government, decided to proceed to this revision of the valorisation mechanism, which means that the average pension in the Czech Republic will increase by 760 crowns in June this year. We have also decided to make an adjustment in this exceptional time when we will give all seniors CZK 400 at a flat rate and project the remaining part in an increase of 2,3% in the part of merit. This decision is, among other things, mainly because we are in a situation where these pension expenditures are not covered by the contributions of today's productive generation. In addition, a generation that, when I put up this comparison of average income and average wage, turns out to be going through a rather difficult period. There is also some intergenerational solidarity that needs to be respected here, because if we did not take this step, this will mean an impact on the state budget this year on expenditure plus CZK 34.4 billion, money that is simply not in the budget, and which we need to borrow when we issue it. For the year 2024, for the next one, this would mean an increase in spending of CZK 5.8 billion. This will become a permanent mandatorial expenditure for all the following years. That means it'll be over 600 billion crowns in ten years. Moreover, these will be the means that will be Valorized forever after that. So I'm not happy about this move at all. If I had 1 trillion crowns in excess here from the previous government, I'd say, let's go and pay this off, let's leave the current valorisation mechanism. But when we are in the state budget in a situation where we have to borrow for these expenses, and the children of today's pensioners and their grandchildren will have to pay this with interest, we decided to make this adjustment. We do this at a time when the statistical office has published the data, the conditions of legal valorisation have been fulfilled, but by 23 March there is a space where the law and the definitions of those conditions can be adjusted and corrected in a certain way according to the situation in which we are now. This situation is really extraordinary. I think it really needs to be seen this way. I also meet many seniors who write to me and say: Yes, we realize this, we realize that this will one day be to the burden of our children and our grandchildren. That is why, even this step by the government, many seniors who write to me support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-006-128.u179	Thank you, Minister. Madam, you may ask an additional question under the Rules of Procedure. [[Member Balaštíková: I will do it in writing.]] Yeah, okay. The honourable Member is therefore not interested in an additional question. [[Mrs. Maríková is coming to the speaker's desk.]] I'm gonna disappoint Mrs. Maříková. According to the Rules of Procedure, the last question may be submitted at 17.55 hours. I am merely saying that, in the last interview, as was the case with Mrs Balaštíková, even if we exceed the time, she may ask an additional question. However, the last inhalation may be given within 17.55 hours. Maybe you'll get lucky next meeting. The Minister seems disappointed he can't answer. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 5:59 p.m. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. Thank you all. I'm just pointing out that we'll meet tomorrow, Friday, 9:00 p.m., when we'll continue the 53rd meeting. So I'm done with today's meeting and I wish you a good evening.
