ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin this 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that the circus 7 minutes after the end, or the interruption of this meeting, would be launched at 17.30 p.m. by the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am now opening the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers shall be valid as stated at the 54th meeting, the 58th meeting and the 59th meeting. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 49 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, March 2nd of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Ondřej kolář. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see the proposition. In that case, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking, who's for these verifiers? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 1, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 145, against no one. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and a Member of Ondřej kolář, as verifiers of the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will read the apologies: Mr Igor Hendrych apologizes for business reasons from 15.45 to 16 hours, and Mr David Štolpa apologizes from 17 o'clock for health reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 60th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. I, before we vote, register a few priority rights here. Mr Marek Benda is the first with priority rights. I don't see him anywhere here, so I'll put him at the end of the priority rights. Next up, President Tomio Okamura is with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here an extraordinary meeting of the opposition on the problem of the Czech Post, which the government has simply not dealt with in the long term. The problem of the Czech Post is a demonstration not only of the age-old inability of ministers but of the entire governments. For years, the Czech Post was for the ruling tobacconist politicians, where friends of friends were sent, who received a million-dollar reward for hundreds of million-dollar losses, and if money was also probably tunneled through various routes, for example, to support selected parties. And now we know that she was the current government, specifically the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan and President of STAN, and now there are rumors that the Czech Post may be heading into insolvency. This, of course, needs to be dealt with and looked into. The media reported that the Czech Post with 27 000 employees consumes over two tens of billion crowns per year for its operation, of which more than 13 billion will be spent on staff. The State must be clear about the way it continues to finance at the latest in the summer. Otherwise, it would be dependent on commercial loans, which would probably lead to a further increase in postal services. Their prices have risen twice in a short time. For this year the company already has 1.5 billion crowns from the state, it will receive the same amount next year, but it is not enough to cover the so-called universal service, i.e. the operation of 3,200 branches and the obligation to deliver letters or packages to any address in the Czech Republic. In recent years, we have experienced record-breaking, literally and really record-breaking increases in trade through the Internet and the associated record growth of transported shipments. Transport of consignments has become one of the most promising fields and is, of course, profitable. When I put it into context at a time when sales in shipments are growing record-breaking, the Czech Post has record losses under the leadership of politicians. Under the leadership of government politicians, that's a terrible paradox. The management of the Czech Post in terms of its management and strategic thinking is visibly characterised by a combination of incompetence and human stupidity. The truth is that the Czech Post should also be supported by the state, but not by giving it subsidies, but by not robbing it or privatizing profitable activities. Let me give you a notorious example, which is PPL. PPL CZ, s. r. o., is originally a Czech company dealing with express, package and courier transport, also transport of pallets of companies and individuals. It was established in 1995 as a union of seven regional carriers. In 2004, restructuring took place, creating a large company with split plants. Two years later, one of the founders bought shares of joint owners and sold the company to DHL, a German company, Deutsche Post. PPL CZ is part of DHL eCommerce Solutions division. He specializes in parcel transport to and from the Czech Republic. The company employs almost 1,000 workers and 2,000 drivers, has 25 depots, two central hubs and a network of 4,000 dispensing and feeding points. Last year, the company created a net profit of CZK 573 million on turnover. DHL eCommerce Solutions is part of Deutsche Group Post DHL Group, which is the world's leading postal and logistics company with 550 000 employees worldwide. The results of the Czech Post last year have not yet been published, but in 2021 it had a loss of CZK 681 million, so the daughter of the German Post had a profit of over half a billion with thousands of people and the Czech Post had over half a billion losses with 27,000 employees. You can't blame it on the so-called universal service, that is, letters and the like. What's a dog buried in? Primarily, instead of investing in profitable activities, Czech governments have been selling them to their friends and their friends, and the losers are leaving them to the state. Why didn't PPL buy Czech Post? Why didn't we buy the profit company to make money for us and not the German Post Office? The PPL is ranked second in the B-to-C segment in various surveys after the Czech Post, both in terms of volume of shipments and popularity among customers. Most of their shipments are delivered on the day following dispatch and have a high percentage of delivery. The receipt allows you to pay with a credit card. Of course, transport through the PPL is cheaper than the Czech Post, and if you want to get the package the next day and don't let God deliver it all the way home, it's an impossible science fiction for the Czech Post. The PPL will come to your house for your shipment and will deliver it to your door after telephone arrangements. Tell people one reason why they should trust - unfortunately it is sad - to entrust the Czech Post shipment when it is under the leadership of government politicians, it is a state enterprise, when it is overpriced, they do not have a guarantee when they get the package, they have to go to the post office and in the vast majority of cases they will not deliver it to me home, so they have to go back to the post office for it. Not to mention the fact that at least in Prague there are many-minute queues at the post office and those post offices are working tired, overloading the people behind whom the SPD is fully behind, mostly women who carry heavy packages and are ordered to force people to draw lots. And once again, I wanted to stress that the SPD is fully behind the post office staff, but we disagree with the management of the Czech Post, which is just introduced by the Ministry of the Interior and government policies of the existing governments, today it is the current government of Petr Fiala and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. [[17.10 hours]] In addition to thousands of employees, Czech Post also has branches and many buildings. Why can't government politicians use this potential? I'm the Interior Minister, I'm going to the PPL managers, I'm going to drag them to the Czech Post, I'm going to lure them to the target reward for the results in black numbers, and I'm going to give them all kinds of support, including the fact that instead of the commercial Belgian bank and the insurance company that offices in Czech branches, I would like to put, for example, the state insurance company VZP. I am thinking of the daughter of VZP, who offers commercial products, or I would establish a state commercial savings bank that will offer bank products at favourable prices for our citizens. Of course, the Czech Post could also work as a state telecommunication company, which would again offer telecommunication services to citizens at low prices and then profit would not go abroad, but into the state pocket. Profit double, because cheap services that reduce people's costs are de facto their income that would reduce social services spending. After all, these aren't ideas from my head, they're ideas from other developed countries. So where's our dog buried? It is only unwillingness, but also the mental inability of governments to do something systemic. Propaganda taught us that communists were morons, so when they had state firms, it's wrong. Well, he's just dumb about the opinion in this case. In Mexico, decades ago - I deliberately give to such a country that is not ranked among the very top in the world - where, by the way, Američan nationalized all oil wells, because they are strategic commodities, as well as refineries and petrol pumps, and the state has a monopoly on all oil production. That's why people have extremely cheap fuel in there. The state has profits from their sales, and thanks to this, it can afford a large proportion of the citizens' zero tax, as well as education and health free of charge, with poor children free of charge also having a school bus, school uniform or lunch. Thanks to the fact that small street vendors pay no taxes, there is no need, colleagues, EETs or hordes of bureaucrats and paper. Is it right-wing or is it left-wing? I think it is reasonable for ordinary people to have at least those basic services at affordable prices and at some affordable level. The state has always had to and will have to live off of something. He can either make the money he needs, or he steals it dirty by violence to people and businesses. When Karel IV. He founded a parish, a church or a university, so he didn't write any more taxes, no, the institution gave a farm, a field, a forest, and thus secured the self-financing of the institution for centuries to come. This is the road, not just to pension reform. Firms like Czech Post must not be a simple burden, but they are a great potential that we must learn to use. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. I would just add that it is enough for the ministries to lead experienced managers, not career politicians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, Minister Vít Rakušan, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would have had many reactions to what was said here. I presend that as soon as the government approves the transformation project of the Czech Post, I myself will request a meeting that we have today, but this is the space for the opposition, so I am releasing my word to my colleague, Mrs Vildumetzová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, I'll put your application at the end of the priority rights. I'm just making an announcement that we have another meeting at 5:30, and I'm going to interrupt the meeting at 5:23 p.m., or I'm going to vote on the agenda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would like to point out that this extraordinary meeting has been convened by the ANO movement, the ANO movement has submitted 41 signatures. The truth is, unfortunately, the way priority rights are claimed, they speak. At this point, I thank the Minister of the Interior for giving me the opportunity to express myself, because I think that the ANO movement has been calling for a longer period of time to see that something is not right at the Czech Post, it has also proved today that before this extraordinary meeting the Minister of the Interior spoke at a press conference, where he clearly said that the Czech Post is in such a bad position that it is at risk of insolvency. I mean, the Home Secretary, when he came into his office, said he was going to fix the český Post. He fixed it so that it had a loss of around 600 million in 2021 and a loss of 1.4 billion in 2022, which is a huge number. This House approved the introduction of data boxes for legal persons, which, of course, will bring another loss of -2 billion to the Czech Post, but this will be reflected in 2023 when the Minister of the Interior is clearly aware of what is threatening and what awaits us. When the Minister of Interior came into office, I'm sure you all remember that he said that people in the Supervisory Board would change, that they were experts, that they were administrative people who would come and deal with the Czech Post to improve its situation. I would also like to point out that when the five-calice went into government, she said how ready she was to govern, how prepared she was to have everything, how different everything would be, how different the change would be. At this point, you've been in government for 15, 16 months, and nothing's moving anywhere, and the situation is even worse than it was a year ago. One number testifies to this, and I repeat it again: at the end of 2021 the Czech Post was in a loss of 600 million and in 2022 under the rule of Minister Vít Rakušan is in a loss of 1.4 billion. I don't have to point out that this week the Czech Telecommunications Authority has published that it wants to cancel another 300 branches of the Czech Post. You're all from towns and villages, the Home Secretary represents the starosta. She knows very well how important it is for every mayor to have Czech Post in every city, the village, because she also performs the function that these people will come and meet there. It's just important. There was always a railway to every village and there was Czech Post. We're now coming up with a cancellation. At the press conference dneska, the Home Secretary said that it would not be disturbed in small municipalities, that it would be disrupted in larger cities. Well, I'm curious to know what Pardubice's going to say that it's going to be reduced to nine from 13 post offices. I'm sure when the Home Secretary says there will be no reduction in service availability, that's not true. If these people have to travel a few dozen kilometers more, there will be a reduction in availability, but also a reduction in the quality of the services of the Czech Post. At the same time, the Home Secretary also said that by the state as it is, there are four scenarios ahead. The first one is insolvency with bankruptcy, the second one is some controlled insolvency, the third scenario is the sale of the Czech Post and the fourth one is that the Czech Post must change. I would expect the Home Secretary to be ready to rule, that he was ready to come to the Home Office, that he would be in charge of the Czech Post and that he would not be able to deal with this after fifteen, sixteen months. At this point, we learn that there will be a working group. The task force will be meeting and discussing what the transformation will be - that the transformation will therefore be divided into a public service - that means that the basic services will be there, which will be the basic services, which would be under the state, and the latter would be a commercial part, which would be parcel services and logistics. I would also like to mention from this place a tender for the director of the Czech Post. The selection procedure was announced in October last year and the director was not selected yet in January. Ten candidates have applied - or eleven, as the minister here calls me, and the minister has not chosen one. Then we learned that Deputy Minister Štěpán will be in charge of the proceedings, but according to the information I have now, the Minister has most likely appointed him. I don't know - the person who doesn't sign up for the tender will then become the director of the Czech Post! [[17.20 hours]] I consider it an absolute failure of the Minister of the Interior, because I say again, you said something about the Czech Post office, but in 16 months it is in such a state that not only at the moment - and you know that I have been performing here - is the discharge of the postal carrier, those postal delivery women who have very low wages. I've got a lot of these delivery girls writing to me - I've been saying here the example of the town of Ash, where it still didn't work out, they're still discharged, there's always car mail, people don't have the mail delivered properly, none of you would like it if you didn't have the mail delivered properly. We're all addicted to mail because we're getting some information that we need to respond to - but I'm also told that people are being released at the counters. Do we want to go this way? Is this the right way that the Minister for Mayors and Independents will cancel the branches of the Czech Post? The enormous uncertainty of 25,000 employees. I do not think that those who have worked in the Czech Post for many years, whether in the position of the delivery woman, whether in the position of the driver or others, do not really deserve such behaviour and such treatment, because they do not know what will happen to them, what will be the future of the Czech Post. No one told us. Today we have only learned that in the middle of the year some transformation project will be presented - in the middle of this year only - and that, therefore, at the end of the year, the Czech Post will most likely be insolvent. You can see for yourself how very important it is that this point should be placed. I find it absolutely incredible that the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, gave an extraordinary meeting of the Czech Post 30 minutes. For this reason, if the program is not approved, I will propose it for tomorrow's meeting, or Friday's meeting, I apologize, or another meeting, because if you don't mind the fate of the Czech Post and the fate of branches and people, I think this should be of interest to the Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-060-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Madame. We have 17.22 hours. Since I'm registering two or three more priority rights, and we're supposed to continue the 61st meeting at half past six, at this point, I'm interrupting this extraordinary meeting, because we need to reconfigure the systems for the 61st meeting. I remind you that the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin in about 7 minutes.
