ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws /German press 270/7/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received its resolution as House press 270/8. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Zdeněk Nytra among us, hello, Senator. And I ask that representatives of the appellants, Mr Karel Haas, speak on behalf of the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Also, colleagues, colleagues, I will ask you, you who have a need to discuss other issues, go to the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, thank you very much for the floor. Good evening to all of you, colleagues. Draft Law under House Press No. 270 was discussed in detail in committees and subcommittees of the Senate and on 25 January this year in plenary in the Senate. Let me sum up the fact that the debate in the Senate plenary was really very constructive, and if I can generalise its conclusion, I think that the bill as a whole has come from the presentation of fellow senators and senators, say majority, significantly majority and cross-cutting political support. The Senate adopted two minor amendments to the bill. One of the amendments - he is much more... and it is for him to comment on the representative of the Senate, colleague Senator Zdeněk Nytra - concerned § 3g of the bill, that is, the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, where fellow senators, and this is about the legal point of view, considered, say, to be legally safer - it is not contrary to what we declared to be the appellants, what we justified by the opinion of Professor Brodec from the Faculty of Law in Prague - however, the fellow senators considered it legally safer to add to the provision in question governing the National Court of Arbitration for Sports Texting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, both on the right side and on the left side of the hall, I will ask for silence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u4	Thank you very much, to supplement the text explicitly anchoring that the competence and competence of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport in the case of disciplinary offenses of athletes and members of sports organizations will be established, and this is the supplement of the Senate, specifically if it results from internal regulations of sports organizations, humanly speaking, from the federal autonomy of individual roof sports organizations of the types of associations, associations and so on. And the Senate's second amendment is heading towards the area of plan, the development of sport in municipalities. I mentioned here during the previous discussion in the legislative process in the House that in the debate and discussion with associations of municipalities, that is, with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and with the association of local authorities, we reached a compromise as petitioners, when we left the obligation to create plans for the development of sport in municipalities to the oerpéčkových municipalities. In our original proposal, we took this obligation away from all municipalities. In fact, the amendment of fellow senators returns to the original proposal by Members, that is to say, to abolish this sport development plan in all municipalities without distinction, that is, even in the oerpéčková ones, and to leave it at regional level so that sport at regional level is primarily coordinated from the point of view of investments. These are the two amendments of the Senate. On the subject of sport, it seems completely unnecessary for us to somehow split between Members and honourable fellow senators, so it is unanimous coalition agreement - and I dare say that for all colleagues from the coalition working group, so we have confirmed this after this bill has been discussed by the Senate - I would like to ask all of you to vote in the Chamber of Deputies today and to support the bill as approved by the Senate, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u5	I thank you, too, and now I ask Senator Zdeněk Nytra to take the floor. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the amendment because I dare say that the National Sports Agency, or its functioning, deserves the adjustment and that it needs it, so from this point of view we certainly welcomed the amendment. However, during our studies, we have come up with two issues that Mr Haas, in fact, has already discussed in detail in front of me, so I will have it considerably easier. [[17.30 hours]] Indeed, when delegateing powers to the National Court of Arbitration, which already de facto exists at the moment, because I think the National Sports Agency was already established and set up last year, so this amendment only corrects these matters, there is a reasonable concern - not with doping, where it is perfectly okay, that there is clear ingenuity of the state - in disciplinary offences there is really a reasonable concern that it could interfere with the autonomy of associations and sports unions, but it could also cause problems in the international field. That is why we have decided to propose this addition. The original intention was even to release the second part of the sentence completely, but we are aware that there are small sports associations that do not have disciplinary bodies, and this way, if you approve this amendment of ours, the individual association, or the association, will be free to decide whether to ask the National Sports Agency or the National Court for Sport to resolve the problem. The other problem. According to existing legislation, there should in essence be 6 500 plans for the development of sport by individual municipalities in the Czech Republic. We all know that this is strictly formal, or that these plans on the municipalities do not actually exist in the vast majority. They exist where the National Sports Agency required it in the context of a subsidy application. The proposed or discussed amendment narrowed the circuit for municipalities only to municipalities with extended scope, but there is a problem that it concerns only the territory of the municipalities with extended scope, which means, again, it would not include those 6 and quarter thousand municipalities and again it would be only formal. So the Senate is proposing to launch the remaining municipalities, and to leave it really only on the verge where there are fourteen meaningful plans for the development of the community's sport, and even the National Sports Agency can focus on whether or not it is in the regional sport development plan. The Senate discussed the bill at its 6th meeting on 25 January, adopted resolution 101 and agreed to return the bill as amended by the amendments I presented to you here. I would like to ask you for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, too, Senator. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Lubomír Brož, also wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? [[I don't want to.]] You don't want to express yourself, okay. So if no one else is claiming priority rights, I am opening up a debate. I have two applications for the debate, the first Mr Brož, followed by Mr Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really only briefly, because we've discussed the law a lot here, we've said all sorts of things. I would merely comment on the amendments for myself. I'm a little surprised that some of these things weren't a little bit more combatable by the law maker, because they're pretty significant. Now, aside from the community's obligation to participate in the plan, even though we've been discussing this a lot, we've been debating - so well. However, the first amendment, when the jurisdiction of the arbitration court should be conditional on the fact that the sports organisations had to ask for help, and the decision of the court would be in accordance with their internal rules, it would be a little bit at the arbitration court, where we criticized his activities here and the defense attorneys very much advocated what he had to do, starting to remind me a little bit of the fairytale about Princess Koloběžka: she didn't come, dressed undressed, brought a gift of failure. That's why I'm surprised you didn't fight a little harder for this, because, of course, the arbitration court doesn't have the authority to exercise its powers for the benefit of athletes and those organizations. By supplementing this obligation, application and compliance with the regulations, the activity is really very and very limited in the future. The state should - and I hope, therefore, that the state is supposed to have - a great and considerable interest in examining both doping questions in sport, this can often be, in contrast to the organisations themselves - I might point out, it could be, and, of course, disciplinary issues relating to state-supported athletes and officials in sport. So it's just a second look at the amendments for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u9	I also thank you and ask that Mr Radek Vondráček speak now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor and I will not have a long speech, but if you remember, dear colleagues, I have performed twice on this issue both at second and third readings, and I have told you that this is not good and that the court will probably not be completely okay under the applicable legal order of the Czech Republic. Well, what happened? The Senate paid you back. The Senate correctly identified the problem, which is that it actually meets some legal limits, but I think it has provided a certain patch and that this is ultimately not enough, because the problem is in the very designation of the court, when there is a certain limit to the prohibition of deception, provided for by the provisions of Paragraph 13 (1). 4, Act No. 216/1994 Coll., on arbitration and enforcement of arbitration findings, as amended. That's the clause. The use of the word court simply has certain solid legal rules in the Czech Republic. That is why the concept of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport is more fundamental, where the National Court of Arbitration for Sport - I say this correctly, I hope - does not and will not have legal personality. He cannot act as an entity in legal relations because he is a sort of body of the National Sports Agency. It's not a separate entity. The Statute of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport states - and the legal regulation does not change that at all, nor does the voluntaryity that the senators have added there - that the National Court of Arbitration for Sport is the body established by the National Sports Agency. At the same time, it is stipulated that the National Court of Arbitration for Sport performs the tasks entrusted independently of the National Sports Agency and is not bound by its instructions, that is Article 1.5. And here is the dispute, because if the National Court of Arbitration for Sport is to be the body of the National Sports Agency, it is hard to imagine that it will act independently, then it is part of the power of executive. Another consequence of this concept is that, in fact, the decision - and if it is an arbitration court, then the arbitration awards - is issued by the National Sports Agency, which is an existing entity under the law established by law, not by the National Arbitration Court for sport, which has no legal personality. I may be pointing this out for nothing, but that's the point. Last but not least, it means that the selected judges are not judges of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, but completely independent ad hoc entities, i.e. ad hoc judges, engaged in decision-making in their own name and on their own account. That fact is also reflected in the fact that the parties, which means the parties to the dispute under consideration, should choose directly an arbitrator for any decision of the dispute, not the agency, which is not the agency, it is not, it is indeed the agency, because the National Arbitration Court is only a component of it. We're going back through the arch to the arbitration law that doesn't allow this. Why am I stressing this? Because we have quite a rich case-law - I would say, from the first decade of this millennium, I think, because various arbitration clauses have been dealt with in a big way, private arbitration clauses that have been given to different lenders of money, but also institutions such as large insurance companies, where they have tried to somehow divert their agenda from the proper courts. The courts have responded to this rather rich case law, which has also addressed the name, which has also dealt with the fact that they cannot keep their own list of judges, to appoint an arbitrator themselves, that there must be rules, and I can refer to the case law in general in principle. [[17.40 hours]] I won't keep you. You've got enough voices, you're gonna vote it out without us. I don't think it's okay, and it's not even okay to the point that we're running into a constitutional division of power on power executive and judicial. And I say it fairly, that if the law is passed, and I assume it will, I will address my colleagues, if I find them forty, and I will turn to the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic on this matter, so that my legal opinion, which I have consistently and still have the same view that it is not okay, has even the strength that it is not constitutionally conformal. In that case, let the Constitutional Court intervene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see anyone else. Please, Mr. Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I don't want to take advantage of the fact that maybe I'll sign up in the final word so that the debate can be complete and comprehensive. I'll try to respond to the previous speakers. I made sure there was no one else. On the question of Mr Brož, by your means, why didn't the petitioner fight more for the House version when I put it this way completely human and flat out. I was trying to explain. I will mention one human political aspect, but I consider it important. I said it, so I will repeat it: I do not think that professional correct and constructive relations between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate should somehow be broken down on the subject of sport, and where it is possible to, say, comply with the legitimate amendments of fellow senators, they are completely autonomous, so it seems petty to me, I will say quite frankly, to be divided on the subject of sport. That's the human-political reason. And then, of course, there are real reasons. And there are two material reasons. I also tried to insinuate them, but maybe I didn't make myself very clear. I'm looking for a mistake on the transmitter, not on the receiver. As far as the National Court of Arbitration for Sport is concerned, the document adding to Section 3g of the amendment by fellow senators does not alter the substantive content of our proposal. If you recall what the House approved, then what the House approved was here many times as a representative of the petitioners explained to me that who honors all types of interpretation, not only a grammatical interpretation, but in particular a systematic interpretation of any legal standard, that is to say, this provision must be interpreted in a systematic interpretation by the Sports Support Act, which should include Section 3g in the new version, in addition to and together with other legislation, in this case in particular with the Civil Code and its provisions governing the association. The Law on the promotion of sport cannot in any way be repealed and it is not in the power to repeal the provisions of the Civil Code on Federal autonomy. The two provisions or the two regulations stand next to each other and must be interpreted as standard, systematically, together. That means, yes, we did not consider it important as a petitioner to point out in a case-law what - that is not negative - is a case-law to stress what was added by the first amendment by fellow senators. This is not that the version of the parliamentary or version, as amended by the Senate amendment, is one or the other bad. Let's say the version in the wording of the Senate amendment is more accurate, more puzzling, I stress it quite neutrally, and it explicitly regulates what we have declared here many times and what we have tried to explain to all, even to opposition Members, by the most professional authority possible, that is to say, a colleague by Professor Brodec from the Faculty of Law of Charles University. So I have no reason to disagree with the amendment when the amendment of fellow senators on the National Court of Arbitration for Sport does not change the direction, the material importance that we, the petitioners, saw in § 3g. This is for the first amendment. On the second amendment, I also thought that I had made this clear. Whoever follows the legislative process of the Houses of the Press 270, so you know that in the very first proposal, that means 270/0, we are obliged to plan the development of sport in municipalities - and now I say that word in quotation marks, because let's say lay or human - they also cut for all municipalities without distinction in communication, but it was not an explicit requirement. Who took part in the half-day workshop will thus confirm that neither the Union of Cities and Municipalities nor the Association of Local Authorities categorically required to return to the law plans for the development of sport to the level of oerpéčkových municipalities. That's what we agreed from the debate. But I'm stressing here, a number of you were at that seminar, it wasn't a categorical requirement. This means that we are merely returning to the first House of Press 270/0 itself with this amendment. So the answer, the factual one, why I, as a representative of the group of petitioners, did not defend the House's version more: well, because neither of the two amendments by fellow senators goes against our parliamentary proposal. That may be the answer to the performance or to the question of honored colleague Brož. As for my colleague Radek Vondráček, again through Mr President, I have it divided when I took notes on three aspects of his speech. If I understand correctly the introduction of his speech, he concludes from the amendment of fellow senators that the House version was not correct. I respect the results of the work of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the autonomous and legitimate position of the Senate, but the fact that the Senate will accept the amendment is not a legal law, there is no authoritarian court in the legal world about whether the House version, which the Senate amendment complements in this case rather than that it changes it in substance, is not an authoritarian court about whether the House version is in some way flawed or bad. I have perceived and I think that this debate has been constructively conducted both on subcommittees and on committees and on the Senate plenary. I see it only as a possible greater measure, and it probably belongs to the second Chamber of Parliament, a greater degree of fear or a mitigation of possible risks from the senator's point of view, whether or not the proposal is constitutionally conformal. I stand by it, I am responsible for it, that constitutionally conformal and constitutionally correct is. So that's the first aspect of Mr. Vondráček's performance. The second aspect I perceived, the middle part of his performance was basically criticism of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport as an entity. In some way, a colleague here criticized the position of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport in the organizational structure of the National Sports Agency. So here I will stress what has been done many times in plenary in the previous discussions. koneckonců all, a colleague of Zdeněk Nytra, an honored colleague of the Senate, said some of these things here. The National Court of Judgement for Sport does not come up with this amendment. He as an entity, like, and now I prefer to say it in quotation marks, so as not to be caught at the word, but I think that even in law this term is quite used, as a courtroom was established in May 2021, it was established by the then head of the National Sports Agency. It was established that the National Sports Agency responded by setting up WADA audit in the Czech Republic. I had the opportunity to see this audit, professionally, to look into it, and without the Czech Republic responding to more than 40 major audit findings of WADA, there were really great problems for Czech athletes, for Czech sports roofing organizations including potential non-participation in international sports events. At that time, not one single critic, either to the position or to the establishment of the National Court of Arbitration for Sport, to the designation and to the concept of a court in its overall name, was mentioned either from among lawyers or from among sports experts. So here the criticism comes to me at this point, I'm going to say a slightly ex post after this entity exists, and it's really just moving, and it's one of WADA's complaints, it's moving to the level of its legal anchoring. [[17.50 hours]] I thought that the amendment of fellow senators would dispel at least some of the concerns of those of you, and I respect who you voted against. I will just ask again: I think that, on the contrary, my fellow Senators have contributed by this proposal to the fact that those of you who may have had doubts about the compliance of the House of Press 270 with the principles of federal autonomy enshrined in the Civil Code have now had the opportunity, thanks to this amendment, and I have here expressed coalition support for the adoption of the text in the Senate version, so perhaps the number of votes voting for will increase. But of course I'll respect the outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Radek Vondráček's point of fact. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will ask the debaters to transfer their discussions to the lobby. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u14	Firstly, I appreciate the gestures of my colleague that he has spoken in the debate, and I have a chance to respond. Not everyone does. Second of all, I've gone around it, and I've got 40 signatures, if I understand correctly. Thirdly, I would like to say that the argument of the court may not be appropriate, because the court is a place where the case is judged, just as the court has a number of barrels in Zlín, Brno and I do not know where everywhere, and I have walked there as a lawyer, because I have often given their arbitration clause, so it is only a local designation, but of course the legal personality - the legal entity, the legal entity, the legal person is the law established by the arbitration court. If I take it from you, then if the National Court of Judgement for Sport is a courtroom, then the National Sports Agency judges, but it can't be a court. It just doesn't fit the name of the court. That is indeed an excess of executive and judicial power, and that is the fundamental problem that I am saying here. We have had many objections to the law in the past, we have acted a lot, so it is probably no surprise that the ANO club will vote against both versions. But otherwise, thank you for the debate and for the fact that we could have said it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. I do not see anyone else entering into the debate, if that is the case, I am ending the debate. I want to ask the senator, the rapporteur, for the final word, do you want the final word? It's not like that. So I'll call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby again. I'll read the apologies. For health reasons, Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologizes from 17.15, and Mr Pavel Svoboda takes back his apology from 17.00 for work reasons and from 17.25 for work reasons. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 270/7, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 270/8. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll sign you all out. I'll ask you to re-enlist with your cards. I'll wait for the numbers to settle. I have read the motion for a resolution; it is all known what we will be voting on. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 39, 148 Members and Members signed up for proposal 99, against 43. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We have discussed this point, and I thank the Senator, the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, which is
