ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u1	71. Members of Josef Bernard, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Martin Baxa and Jana Pastuchová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 241/ - first reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Wednesday 31 May of this year in the general debate. I remind you that the Government's position has been delivered as House press 241/1. And now I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Mr Josef Bernard and the rapporteur for the first reading of Aleš Dufek. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. Yesterday, Wednesday 31. 5. Mrs Michaela Šebelová's speech was interrupted. Do I ask the honourable Member if she wants to continue her speech? He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I will continue my speech briefly. I want to focus on why I think it is important that the right to conclude a union of two adults is enshrined in the Civil Code. I think it's because citizens who have a sexual orientation other than that heterosexual are exactly the same people as us, they're not people of the second category, and there's no need for them to have a special law. It is not an interest group, it is no professional group, it is a very diverse, diverse community. I would like to propose, at this point, that we also stop using the term "community" in connection with this as a society, because the LGBT community, when we use it, can evoke a certain closed community of people who have some common goals, common interests, but they are - or we are - we are different, we are different. The variety is important, and it needs to be realized. It's not us and they - we're all us - and there are people living among us, they're just like everyone else, it can be our practical physician, it can be our child's homeroom teacher, it can be our work colleague. And we don't recognize them, they look exactly the same at first sight. And I can think of an analogy, I like the Red Dwarf series, and there's this hologram, Holly or Rimmer, so, and he's got an h written on his forehead, and it's obvious at first sight that it's a hologram. But when someone has a lesbian orientation or a gay orientation, it doesn't have it written on their forehead, we don't know it on their forehead, it's perfectly normal, just like us. And believe me, I know what I'm talking about. I thank my children so much at this point that I can publicly present our story. I have twins, identical, identical guys, and one of them is gay. We often discuss within the family how strange it is that when they were born - born prematurely, they received full health care - so the state took care of them exactly the same way, and I am grateful for it, we owe them our children's lives because health care is on a great level. Then they went to school. They have the same right to schools, and no one cares. He can even continue to go to school, even though he's already known to be gay. It's a ridiculous idea, isn't it, that it couldn't be possible, that suddenly it wouldn't be allowed? That seems preposterous to us. If they go to work, they will pay - I hope they will work and pay their taxes properly, but if they find a life partner, only one of them will be able to make a lasting union, and the other won't. And here comes this huge inequality. And we basically don't even know that the other son who likes women isn't sure that he's gonna have kids, we don't know that he's gonna bring us another taxpayer. So their fate in life may be very similar, but the moment they'd like to make a lasting bond with their life partner on the treasure of the Civil Code, there's a great inequality. And I'm asking you here to think about it, because it really doesn't make sense from my point of view anymore, and I think it's a big... It is of great importance to me that we will really show as a society that we are equal in all rights. [[10.00 hours]] There's one more thing I'd like to highlight, I'll be really short in my speech. Today is International Children's Day, and I would like us, as Members and legislators, to think about the rights of all children, including the rights of children who already live today - and such children are and are hundreds of them - living in rainbow families and not completely resolved their legal protection. And I beg you very much to think first of all about the rights of these children, we cannot pretend that they do not exist. They're here, they live among us, they're perfectly normal, beautiful, healthy, and sometimes even different kids just. And the last thing I would like to call on you here to make us all realize that apart from being legislators and of course laying down legislation, we are also publicly active persons, and what words we choose in our performances are of great importance. I ask you to think about this in the context of this discussion, because what we will really call us, all the people we will often name them, affects the social mood, the social atmosphere. I think the debate is going beautifully, it's dignified, and I thank you for that. And I beg you to support the negotiation of the law in further readings so that you can help us send this law to committees so that we can discuss the details and find a consensus across the political spectrum here, one that will benefit our fellow citizens and actually in the finals of the entire society of all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u3	Thank you. Mrs Nina Nováková will now make a point of fact. Your two minutes, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I really only have two short notes. That first remark, it was said yesterday: "Don't attack, don't attack, and so on." That's completely unwarranted fear. There has never been anything here that the defense attorneys of this proposal might consider to be something offensive, and it has already been said yesterday and today. The other thing is: yesterday, through Madam President, it was said from Mrs Urbanová's mouth that love is love and so on and so on and so forth, and today it was said from the mouth of my Member, the previous speaker, that they cannot actually close the same-sex couples a lasting union. I don't understand. After all, the permanence lies in the love and the fact that they can rely on each other, and so far it is a registered partnership, and all of us who do not want to so-called marriage for all, or at least most of us, want to revise the law on registered partnership - and we are talking about partnership, we are not talking about registration, as you say, in dogs, so as an introduction, we always say: please don't be afraid that someone will insult you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u5	Thank you. Mr Michal Zuna is now in the debate and Mrs Kocmanová will be prepared. And before the Member has the floor, I will read the apologies: Robert králíček has apologized since 14.30 for personal reasons and Julius Špičák throughout the day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I wanted to apply to Mrs Nováková in fact, but since it came out so well for my entry, I will start my speech. Mrs Nina Nováková said that love is given by its permanence or repeatedly that permanence is given by that love. But what good is love without justice, love that has no right that has no right as my love for others? And now I'm going to get to what I wanted to say in my performance. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the amendment to the Civil Code, because, as I said in that point in fact, the settlement of the rights of all persons is absolutely fundamental and absolutely unambiguous. I do not understand that we are currently living in a country where all persons do not have the same rights, and also the view of marriage or the union of identical sex couples is evolving in their time, just as a number of other areas developed within society, when our colleagues here in February 1920, not here in the House, because the House was based in Rudolfinum, approved women's electoral rights, so I can imagine that the debate was very similar, very polarizing, but today we consider women's electoral rights to be completely understandable, no one is surprised, no one is surprised. And I think for a few years, when people in the House, or even here in the House, are talking about the same sexual couples who are entitled to the same rights as heterosexual couples who are getting married, no one is going to wonder. In fact, this part of the company could have been resolved in 2006, when the registered partnership law was adopted, but we all know that registration and marriage are quite different. There are a number of rights that need to be settled between different sex couples and same sex couples. I will not go too deep, because from that we will certainly have a second reading, however, whether it concerns technical parameters of the conclusion of the union on all matrices, although yes, we are still dealing with this separately in the Act on Matrics, the formal formation of related relationships, common surnames or property rights, the automatic creation of the joint property of spouses, the rights associated with the joint use of the apartment - these are all categories that are still missing from the same sex couples registered. But since it is that day of children, I would also like to emphasise the most important thing that needs to be settled in this area, these are parental rights and the rights of children, whether they are joint adoptions or foster care, or when they adopt a child in the event of the death of one of the spouses, let's say, so it is also the right of a child to a loving family, to grow up in a loving family and be surrounded by love. We are discussing a law that cannot harm anyone, cannot intervene in a negative sense, but can help many people. That is why I, too, am expressing my support for this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u7	Thank you. Mrs Klára Kocmanová will now appear, Mr Aleš Dufek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to take my speech today in the same way as my previous speaker, in the form of sharing a story. I believe that after years of discussing the issue of identical sex couples, most of us already know that there are fundamental differences between a registered partnership and marriage - the absence of a widow's pension only after the fact that the conclusion of a registered partnership is merely an administrative act without witnesses, only in front of a registrar. The same sex couples are often referred to as an abstract group, as if they weren't real people with real stories. That's why I'm going to introduce you to a real story like this. And I think the story will show why we should accept marriage for everyone as soon as possible. The story I'd like to share with you and whose publication I have consented to is the story of Hana and Adéla, who have been partners for 15 years. Adéla and Hana lived together in a small house in Prague-Suchdol. They worked their whole lives in the nonprofit sector, both of them always trying to help where they could. Hana has been the director of the One World Film Human Rights Festival for many years, which many of you probably know. Hana and Adéla together raised two children, whose biological mother was Adéla. Adéla went to the doctor last fall with breathing problems. Doctors diagnosed a large tumor in her lungs with metastases all over her body. Immediately started treatment, however, Adéla suffered a series of strokes in connection with it, on the basis of which she became paralyzed. Despite all the efforts of Adéla's doctors after three months of diagnosis in February this year, she died in a hospital in Motola. [[10.10 hours]] Why am I telling this whole painful story? Because it shows how badly the legislation is set up today. Hana, as a non-economic mother who had cared for her children since she was a child, was still forced to deal with what would happen to her children, whether she might be able to be in the hospital with them, in case they were hospitalized at that time, and so on. Because at this point, our laws do not legally recognize her as parents, she has no rights or obligations to children, even though she raised them their whole lives. At this point, there's a lawsuit going on so that Hana can at least become guardian of the children, I point out, guardian, not official legal parent. In fact, if she now applied as an individual for their adoption, children would lose any legal relationship with the family of her deceased partner Adéla, their grandmother, their grandfather, and so on, because the adoption completely ceases to have a relationship with the original family, and nobody wants that in the family. The whole story of Hana and her children is heartbreaking, and I am terribly sorry that such situations must take place at all. Just the idea that you have to deal with your partner in great sadness and absolute stress after your partner's death so that your children will remain yours, and then defend it in court with uncertain results is unimaginable. We are still talking about a situation where the family of the deceased Adéla has good relationships with Hana, considers her to be part of the family and the mother of their daughter's children. Otherwise, I don't want to wonder what situations their children might get into if they didn't, for example, if the parents of the deceased Adéla didn't accept their daughter's sexual orientation. We can change all of this, all of this would be solved by the law we're discussing here today, because it would allow, among other things, the adoption of a partner's child. This would make Hana, who raised children from her childhood and considered her to be her mother, also their legal mother in Adéla's life, and neither she, nor the children, nor the rest of the family would have to undergo all that stress and fear for months. It couldn't be that the kids who had two moms suddenly lost the other one after one of them died. Colleagues and colleagues, please, in the interests of all the same sex families, who may find themselves in a similar situation from one day to the next, to support this law until further reading. It's gonna help a lot of people, and it's not gonna hurt anybody. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u9	Thank you. Mr Aleš Dufek will now speak in the general debate, Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u10	Good morning. I will try to summarize, as rapporteur, how the discussions develop or what arguments have been raised at the moment. There's always a recurring expression of equality, equality, equal rights. Of course, if someone had read the government's statement, it could just be read that this government meant equalizing the same sex, which means that we have some intention of solving these things here, such as the husband's joint property, the widow's pension that fell here, so that the same sexual couples could enjoy the same rights as traditional spouses. I really want this discussion not to be about emotions, it's not about the stories, but rather to focus on the points that, in some way, are the points on which the opponents of this proposal build. This means that there are essentially two, this is the possibility of creating family models father-father-child and mother-mother-child. This means that I would ask the plaintiffs to focus on this and try to prove in some way that there is no difference in the ripening of a person if he has a mother and father model in front of him. The second moment would be a good expression of marriage, which I basically think is enough people perceive that it is a long-standing traditional term for a relationship between a man and a woman to prove that it is a shallow term. I'm going to study the reason report in detail here, and I'm going to quote from it. Nor does the ethymological argument, which claims that the word marriage came from the old forms of words of a man and a woman. Other ethymological interpretations, however, claim that the original word painting in ancient Czech originated from a Slavic woman and Germanic mel - covenant. This would correspond to the fact that marriage has been seen in the past as a pragmatic contract for a woman rather than an emotional bond. Either way, the origin of the word is not determined by what meaning we give it today. Today, marriage is not a woman's contract. That means, of course, this thing surprised me, I've never heard such an ethymological interpretation. I would really ask the following performers to focus on these very things, which means the concept of the word marriage and actually the thing that we want to create a new family model.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u11	Thank you. Mr Hayato Okamura is now reporting with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would just like to say modestly that marriage as a bond between a man and a woman is the belief and practice of most mankind. We live today and here in 2023, but over many centuries, but even now, when we take it geographically, on most of our planet there is a living belief that it is a union of men and women. I also want to recall the great religious traditions. In our country it is said that there are few believers, but let us try to look at it on a planetary basis, whether it is Christianity, Judaism or Islam, but also other traditions, there is the majority belief that it is a union of men and women. I say majority, of course, there are minority opinions within Christian churches, but the majority opinion is this. I would also like to recall the great stories of art, such as literature, art, just in our European tradition, in our European circle. Let us remember Romeo and Julia and other stories that shape us are the foundations of our civilization. Speaking also of the rights of individual actors, I would also like to recall the right of the child, the right of children. Let us try again with humility, without any prejudice, to think about whether a child may not have the right to have a father and a mother or at least to know that he has a father and a mother, and to know them by name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u13	Thank you for keeping time. It is now entered into the general debate by Mrs Helena Válková - I do not vidět. It is now Mr Zdeněk Kettner's turn to prepare Mr Milan Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, as a representative of the SPD, the conservative party defending traditional values, and therefore the traditional family, I suppose my words will not surprise me. We currently have two legislative amendments. We have a legislative marriage for heterosexual couples here, and then we have a legally regulated so-called registered partnership. I don't understand why two legislations should suddenly change like this, interfering with them. [[10.20 hours]] When I listened to some speeches here, when I heard that actually the impossibility of marrying gay and lesbian couples, of preventing them from happiness - I'm not quite sure that some paper, which will be called in some way, will guarantee happiness. I think a lot of heterosexual couples might talk about it. I think that happiness in cohabitation, in partnership, is completely, but completely elsewhere. With regard to the so-called registered partnership against this, we have never acted at all, we have never had a problem with it, and we understand that during the period when this law came into force, practical problems have arisen, which have shown that the law is not entirely perfect, that there are problems that make these couples virtually uncomfortable, make life difficult. What prevents us from amending this law? To adjust the law so that all the discriminatory parts that really bother them to be corrected? For example, I have also heard the opinion that the name of the registered partnership is a problem, that is, registering that it creates a connection - so there is no problem here. So let's suggest another name that I'd say would be more pleasant to hear or that wouldn't cause any negative emotions. We really don't have a problem with that. But what we have big problems is adopting children. When you look at how many children are legally available for adoption, it is a very, very low percentage and even heterosexual couples have long waiting lists for these children. And what, so it's gonna change with this law, and now all of a sudden, there's gonna be a lot of kids totally, totally, for all the couples they want? That's more of a wishful thinking. This means for us: we do not want to interfere with the institution of marriage, which has proved to be, within centuries, the roots of the nation on which the roots of the state stand, and let us focus on the regulation of legislation, registered partnership. There I think there is a way where this is a pass-through, and I think that with an adjustment, with the amendment of a registered partnership, no one across the political House will have a problem. For this reason, what I said here, on behalf of the SPD, we are making a motion to dismiss this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u15	Yes, thank you. Mr Feranec has so far withdrawn his application and Mr Exner is next in the general debate, Mr Karel Haas will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I see this issue as a duel of Western values that respect the rights of minorities, versus the Eastern ones that impose on people the lifestyle of ruling authorities and take away freedom from them. On the one hand, marriage is for everyone, so it doesn't take anything from anyone, but it gives the minority the rights of the majority, while on the other hand, the ruling power usurps for most of the rights that a minority cannot have. So far, no one has explained to me how a marriage of same-sex couples is taking away something from a heterosexual marriage. That's not a bag of candy that I'm gonna eat, or somebody else is gonna eat. As far as marriage and children's rights are concerned, I would like to point out that almost half of children are born in the Czech Republic today outside of marriage, and homosexual women and men can still have children today. They can raise him along with the same sexual partner, and they don't have to ask anyone. Then there's no reason not to allow such couples to marry, and it's hard to say it's against the child's interests. And there is no secret, among other things, that Russia supports these cultural wars in order to divide society, to support organisations and individuals who, through various misinformation, create emotions and prevent rational debate. Russia is trying to turn marriage into taboos for all, thereby blocking it and dividing society. It's simple. If you look at a map of countries that have marriages for everyone, and those who have, for example, a ban on marriage for everyone in the constitution, you might think it's a map of NATO and the Warsaw Treaty from the late 1980s. I think it's simple, it's a civilization thing. Either we want to be a free Western Europe, where same-sex couples can be married in a church, or we want to be the eastern conservative periphery of Russian style. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u17	Thank you. The performance raised several factual points. First, Mr Dufek, then Mr Munzar, followed by Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u18	So I would like to say at this point that I feel offended by what my previous speaker here said that, as promised here yesterday and promised here this morning, the discussion will only be substantive. This is crossing the Rubikon, it's just blackmail, and it's a classic attack on someone who has a different opinion. That means we're gonna put a sticker on him, it's for the east, it's pro-Russian because he has a different opinion. This is strong, big!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u19	Thank you. Mr Munzar with a factual remark, then Mr Feranec. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u20	Thank you, Madam President, dear colleagues - Mr Exner, by your means, I really do not! Yesterday, the Minister of Rakušan here called for tolerance, called for us not to label each other to respect each other's views, and you here will do the first thing in your speech that the conservatives, us who have conservative values, labeled some Russian label. And you contradict yourself, you contradict yourself when you call out for the Western world as you look at it. When we were discussing another bill here, the tolerance of alcohol for watermen, you were the first and greatest critic of the release of this tolerance. And we told you, look at the Western states, look at the tolerance of alcohol behind the wheel, and you refused. So once in a while, it's not a good time. Not like that. Shame on you and don't label me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u21	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u22	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think a lot of this has been said by the previous speakers in response to Mr Exner. So let me just get this straight. Up until now, I have read on social media that whoever happens to have any doubts about this law, whether it really is the right nut, was homophobic and so on. Mr Exner has promoted this to higher quality. Anyone with a shadow of doubt is pro-Russian. Excellent! So where do we end up in this debate, please? That's the rational debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u23	Mr Haas is now joining the general debate, Mr Martin Major will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u24	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to try and get back to the rational debate. I'm not really gonna label anybody. I will sum up my arguments as to why I am completely against the proposal, and I will believe that even if I have the proponents of a proposal that I respect, whose opinion I respect, I will hope that they will still appreciate my views against it. [[disagrees]] I could just repeat the request for mutual respect for not labeling each other, both sides of the line. I do not support this proposal for two sets of reasons, first of all, of value, and in this law I am not ashamed to say that they are more important to me than legal arguments and then legal arguments. As I may already be as a whisperer in quotation marks, I shoot myself in the ankles, you know, so all legal ones can be resourced, so I really source specific case-law of our European, concrete case-law. You can't source those values, because somehow, we all have those inside of each other. [[10.30 hours]] Basically, I have four value reasons. I'm against the proposal because I'm trying to respect our own history. With one of the previous speakers, I don't know who, so don't take this the wrong way, somebody's gotten married a few hundred years ago. Please, marriage is several thousand years old. It's also legally a few thousand years old. Perhaps the lawyers you remember when we studied legal history, I think the first mention was in the Chammurabi Code, and that is in order some 1,800 years before Krist, and the marriage is, of course, much older. I think that if some institutes have evolved in humanity - and not only in the Czech Republic - so the efforts of lawyers - and now I speak against the legal community - such as modern lawyers, to rewrite the laws of phenomena, institutes that are thousands of years old go with humanity for thousands of years, they have some steady values, some settled rules, so I think this is not the right way to go, and for me it does not quite express respect for the history of mankind. Second value reason. The claims of marriage advocates for all, with all due respect, and I will really express this completely factually and calmly, that marriage in the present concept, as defined in Czech law as a union of men and women intended primarily to say reproduction of the human race, and the possible marriage of identical sex couples, if the proposal was approved, deny an objective biological reality. I'm not ashamed to say there are 200 Members here, and we're all the kind of mammal that divides into men and women. So the adoption of laws that deny the biological reality of the world is wrong to me. That's the second reason. I certainly am not saying it, and I am stressing it very strongly right now, so that I am not labeled, that the same sex couples cannot raise children well, beautifully, lovingly - undoubtedly they can, but the marriage education that is composed of a mother and a father, I start with a woman or a woman and a man, if it is not a marriage relationship and it will be the coexistence of any other, and the possible upbringing of children in a same sex couple, whether two women or two men, can never be identical, I emphasize, identical. I'm not saying whether it's worse or better, I'm saying it can't be the same, just because in the same sex couple, one of those elements will always be missing for raising children, whether maternal or paternal, male or female, would be more accurate. So this difference, I don't think it's positive or negative, the difference between raising children and actually denying - I say that word in quotes, and I believe that it has no negative connotations - the children of that element either maternal or paternal - is the third value reason. And the fourth reason is that humanity has experienced a lot of crises, not only the Czech Republic, and in times of major crises, it has always been, in my opinion, a family that has remained in social, war, health crises, other crises, so it has always been the basic building element, the basic securing anchor for human society and the human race to continue to function somehow. And I'm afraid - I don't take it as an attack, but I'm afraid, and that's why I'm using the word erosion that if we approved the proposal, we're contributing - I'm not saying that we're causing it, but we're contributing - to some partial erosion of this basic building element here and this basic anchoring anchor here, that is, a family that has been transferred to humanity many times over all the crises. Well, that's the four-value reasons. Now the legal ones. They're gonna be dry-clean, but I've really been trying to pick things out of the law that are perfectly understandable, and I'm sorry to quote here, because this law is probably the most important thing I've ever seen so far, which we've been discussing in that year and three quarters so far. I am starting from international law because the Czech Republic has accepted international legal obligations, which, of course, must be respected. We are part of the European space, the European civilization area, we are a party to the Convention on Human Rights and we belong as the Czech Republic and we respect the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. I will take the liberty of the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which is a question of marriage of identical sex couples, I will say the question to the Institute - they are not the same in all states - the Czech Institute of Registered Partnership has dealt with the two conclusions many times, then I will say the quotation and sources are absolutely clear: It is not illegal, it is not discriminatory and there is no obligation for the Member States to admit the same sex couples access to the marriage institute. Those are the words not of Karel Has, I quote in a moment, those are the words of the European Court of Human Rights. (b) the Member States of the Convention enjoy the freedom to define what is to the extent - I will get to that in their third part of the legal block - to consider how they will fill the institution of marriage and the institute, if any, in national law, for equal sex couples. These two conclusions are clear from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It's not one decision, it's a lot of decisions. I would like to quote from Ratzenbröck and Seydl's decision against Austria: "In view of the fact that marriage has deep-rooted social and cultural connotations, which can differ fundamentally from one company to another, the court found that Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 does not require the contracting States to grant equal sex couples access to the institution of marriage.' And I will say that the freedom of Member States as regards the complainant's objection to the difference between marriage law and the registered partnership, the court pointed out that individual states enjoy a certain degree of discretion in terms of positions which grant alternative means of legal recognition to the union of two persons of the same sex. This is the international legal plane that I have even before national law. And then I apologize for quoting three times from the Constitutional Court case law. I think that the Czech Constitutional Court - I can have reservations about the single decisions - is composed well, cross-cuttingly, sensitively, by many decisions has shown that it has great respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. The first thing I want to stress is that Czech constitutional law, and not by understanding Haas, not by the values of Haas, but by the clear expression of the Czech Constitutional Court, is based, first, on the biological division of people - man - on women and men according to the binary biological reality of humanity. That's the first thing. And the other thing. Just - and I'm just saying that in quotation marks, I totally respect the internal identification of every person - but only the internal identification of a person, his inner decision to be said in a gender, given, say, uncertain, unstable, subjective - that is also no notion of negative significance - as subjective as I say the criterion in the area of this internal identification, it is not sufficient for any relevant legal interference into the Czech legal system. These two conclusions - resourced - are no old decisions, which means that we do not suspect the Constitutional Court that these are some conservative decisions from the beginning of the 1990s. This decision is the decision of the plenary of the Constitutional Court 2/20. The first sentence to divide humanity according to objective natural reality into men and women, and it can't be otherwise, something, someone created us: "In the territory of the Czech Republic people are divided into women and men. This understanding of the binary existence of a human species does not originate in the will of the State." Vsivka, we here are legislators in the sense of the will of public authority, because public power only accepted this reality. And the sequel to that sentence: "Words have meaning and concepts men and women are in themselves sufficiently understandable, and in most individuals the division into these two categories, which occur immediately after birth, does not cause difficulties, because it again stems from the biologically objective reality of the world we live on. " [[10.40 hours]] And the second legal conclusion, which I stressed, with all due respect for the internal subjective identification of each individual with whom he feels to be, but that it is not essential for the intervention into the legal order of the Czech Republic, a quote from the same decision of the Constitutional Court 2/20. On the contrary, information on the gender with which the individual is internally identified is basically irrelevant from the point of view of these examples and the different treatment of people according to this characteristic would lack the objective and reasonable reasons required for the different treatment of constitutional order. During the proceedings, the Constitutional Court did not provide a logical explanation of what should be used to divide people into those who identify themselves as a man and those who identify themselves as a woman. Such categories do not originate in legal or social reality. The second decision of the Constitutional Court, which I want to mention here and try to go from more general matters, but related to the current material, is that there is no fundamental right to marriage in the Czech legal system, there is no fundamental right to adopt children. The understanding of the family in a biological sense, this finding in a moment, I will quote again, repeats as well as the 2/20 plenary finding - and I will mention the decision that I will now mention also because the Constitutional Court actually sent an appeal to us legislators in that decision, so that we do not form a traditional family as a stabilizing element of society. Again, I quote precisely the words of the Constitutional Court so that it is not modified by me in any way. Point 35 of the Plenary Judgment of the Constitutional Court 7/15, this finding is from 2016, which means, again, it is not some woody history of judicature. The Constitutional Court is based primarily on the fact that "there is no fundamental right to adopt a child, neither at constitutional level nor at the level of the international obligations of the Czech Republic." Another sentence: "There is no fundamental right to marriage or registered partnership. Special protection is guaranteed only by parenting and family, understood by family in the traditional sense from the point of view of child reproduction." The fact that the family is thus understood by the Constitutional Court, the citation from paragraph 36 of this plenary finding 7/15, is therefore sufficient to state that the concept of a family understands the Constitutional Court primarily not as an artificial social construct, that is, those relationships, loving beautiful relationships, but mainly as a biological construct, based on the blood relatives of persons living together, or as an unrelated relationship that mimics the biological relationship, that is adoption. And really to the fact that the Constitutional Court actually sent an appeal to the legislators not to contribute to the erosion of the traditional family, that sentence maybe from all the conclusions I'm trying to tell you today is the most important thing for me. On the other hand, the Constitutional Court stresses, however, that it does not see the slightest reasonable reason for which he himself should contribute actively to the erosion of the traditional concept and its function. As sociologist Ivo Možný writes, the family changes, but it is always a stabilizing element of society. And don't worry, I'm getting close to the end. The third of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which I would like to mention today in today's debate, is once again a relatively new decision. It is the decision of the plenary of the Constitutional Court 6/20. This decision - there will be only one quote - I want to show it that the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic is proceeding fully in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the conclusions that I said result from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, that is, there is no right at European international level to the marriage of persons of the same sex and Member States enjoy the freedom to define the content, what rights and obligations they will fulfil the content of marriage and any alternative institute of similar marriage intended for persons of the same sex, and the application to that case law of the European Court of Human Rights took place at the level of the Czech Constitutional Court. Citation from paragraph 12 of the Plenary Judgment of the Constitutional Court 6/20: "If the relevant caselaw of the EPLP is subject to an appropriate analysis, it cannot be concluded only in agreement with the majority that there is no general right to become a parent or to conceive of a child, that the right to become a parent cannot be induced even by Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 2 (2) of the Convention and that no general right can be drawn from the Convention to become an adopter and therefore no obligation on the State to allow access to adoption may be introduced.' I'm done, maybe for someone with legally boring quotes from the Constitutional Court. I have noted what international legislation is now, which binds the Czech Republic in the field of fundamental human rights, what is the Czech constitutional case law in the context of the matter we are discussing today, and I would probably be a bad lawyer if I had not tried to propose what to do with it in the future. So, as in the future, and here I will follow up on one of the previous speakers, on the words of the rapporteur, Mr Aleš Dufek, through Madam President. I now allow myself to be factually critical of our fellow legislators, it is not the kind of act of general after the battle, it is difficult to assess the historical facts that have taken place, including the legislative ones, when we were not their direct actors, however, I think that today's situation has been dealt with by the adoption of the Czech law on registered partnerships. Why? The law, even I, although today I am against a proposal in quotation marks called marriage for all, so if you ask me if the Czech legislation of registered partnership is set up correctly, I will tell you that it is not set correctly and should in my opinion be much better set in three basic planes. Firstly - and sometimes this shows how important words are - in my view the concept of registered partnership, which was elected by the 2006 law, is absolutely inappropriate for the loving relations of two people. The concept is simply technical, perhaps technical is the best word, it is not pleasant, and I think that for the loving relationship of two people really has not been chosen well. Whether it was consciously or unconsciously, I can't see inside the heads of the then legislators. So the concept of registered partnership or the designation of this union is, in my opinion, the first wrong level of current Czech legislation. The second plane, and for two people who have a loving relationship with each other, can be very sensitive, is actually the plane of the closure process. The marriage process and the marriage process are not identical. You know that the registered partnership has a matriculation regime, still valid and effective only at 14 district authorities. In fact, here I am terribly sorry that the legislators have approached the registered partnership or the union - I think that the concept is also wrong - to the union of two persons and to the process of its conclusion from the point of view - most of us may have sometimes acted in the role of mayors, councillors or even representatives who have given in marriage, I think that we are all enjoying it together with those people in the ceremonial halls or in other places - and the difference between the conclusion of the marriage and the conclusion of the registered partnership from the point of view of festiveness, the soft element of lovingness, is also very important to me. And actually, in third place, I'm just saying rights, and there I totally agree with the explanatory note, I'm not gonna deny that. In my opinion, it was handled very well by its promoter. In fact, the reason report contains a difference table and a huge amount - and for me an incomprehensible amount - of private rights: access to information, sharing information, joint property or co-ownership instead of community property and so on and so on - a huge number of private rights, specific rights and obligations. A registered partnership, perhaps those who do not move on legal issues, maybe run on cheap lines when it is said that it is the same, so I, although I am not in favour of the proposal, recognise that the scope of the rights and obligations of marriage and registered partnerships is far from the same and the scope of the differences is really unfounded and enormous. [[10.50 hours]] And that brings me to the very conclusion of my performance. All I can do is send a request to the plaintiffs. If the plaintiffs really mean the words of helpfulness, the words of listening, the words of respect, so I was actually here - the first was, I'm trying to listen to the whole and yesterday's part - if there's mutual respect, then we should probably look for a compromise, because we perceive that both Czech society and here in the House the subject of opinion - I believe that not humanly - divide each other by opinion, so we should seek a compromise. And I believe that from my words -- that's why I had the third block to do with it in the future -- I believe that I may have outlined where I would be, although I will vote against where I would see the path to compromise, and I think that the path to compromise is not entirely small. We outlined three ways to a possible compromise. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr. Aleš, came forward with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would very much like to thank and thank Mr Haas for his words, which I have listened carefully here, and I have made some statements. The conclusion of the speech: I can say that my colleague Nacher had a compromise proposal here, which he still keeps in his drawer, to settle these rights right here. It has been there for several years, so it is certainly possible to reopen this here and, of course, de facto be part of this across the political spectrum, so that we can straighten these rights out. That means, in short, when we're in marketing: a civil code is marriage for everyone. Here it would be marriage - rights yes, marriage no, like the title. That means we can dust it off again. Colleague Nacher isn't here, he's definitely gonna talk to this House press, and he's gonna mention it. However, I would like to thank Mr Haas very much once again, because he spoke exactly as I did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u27	Thank you. We don't really have another comment, so I'm gonna ask for another one, and this is Mr. Martin Major. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u28	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Dear Fellows, Dear Fellows, Dear Students, Marriage is in our cultural circle in which our nation has been found and developed for more than a thousand years, traditionally understood as a legal union of men and women, and this union is considered to be a fundamental institution of family in society. Our ancestors in legends have just described the transition from chaos to organized society, among other things, by man and woman marrying in such a society. The importance of these basic postulates has not changed in any way over the centuries and applies today, although some currents in society are increasingly trying to blur out, dilute and cloud their contours within the framework of general relativization. There is debate about whether it is right for marriage to continue to be limited to the union of a man and a woman, but I do not think that we should give in to these pressures. I respect the same sexual couples, which I personally respect very much, and yet all legal, official and other advantages arising from the institution of marriage can also be obtained in another legislative form. This is the way we went yesterday, and I am absolutely not defending myself from such a thing. I am prepared to support, for example, the extension of legislative benefits for registered partnerships. I just wish we didn't change the meaning of terms. Marriage was once formed as a union between a man and a woman, so please do not try to transform that term by force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another of the applicants is Mr Jan Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ability to make decisions, and in addition to that, to make decisions with the knowledge of the consequences of their decisions, is one of the characteristics of man. I decided whether to consider my speech as brief or to touch on all aspects of the said standard. I was deciding whether to treat him as purely factual, or to touch him with emotions. I was deciding whether to be energetic, strong, or atonemental. I have decided whether to respond to all the suggestions that have been made or to leave them for discussion in the committees. I just decide how I communicate. We all decide on ways of communication. I thank all those who conduct this communication in a matter of fact, because even though we disagree, we do not have to be offended and stickers really help nothing. What I didn't decide was my orientation. I'm just the way I am, and I've decided to try to be of service to this company. My family, my friends, my loved ones, my colleagues have decided to accept me for who I am. You will decide today if you will continue to adopt a standard that will allow me, not only me, and above all me, to feel a full member of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u31	Thank you and I will ask another duly signed up, and this is Mrs Nina Nováková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, which will not be long, I will freely follow up on Mr Haas' speech, with the fact that I may argue with him in some of the details, and at the same time I would like to stress what I have already said in my point of fact. It is clear that the House here resonates the strong will to find a third solution, and here I am going to go a little bit into controversy with Mr Haas. When our predecessors decided less than 20 years ago to approve the Act on Registered Partnerships, some said - of those who longed to enter into a registered partnership, i.e. representatives of the same-sex couples or their supporters - they said: This is the last step we want. We just want some officiality, some official recognition of the union. At the time, the legislators, our predecessors, used the words that we now see as vile, and that's registered because they wanted to show that the partnership was officially captured. So I would feel very sorry for them or feel what led them to use that term of registered partnership, because at the time it was the maximum that was consistent with their will and what they wanted to offer the same sex couples to feel certain. It is clear, and I think there is no controversy at all today that the table that is in the explanatory report that it does not, in principle, lie is true, and there is a will across the political spectrum, at least I believe that we can correct what, in terms of, say, the practical functioning of the life of these registered partners puts at a disadvantage and really discriminates. [[11.00 hours]] Now I come to say that some of us are opposed to the concept of marriage and with it, respectively, the concept that has been reserved to a particular social institute that has been absolutely proven, and in Western culture, I stress, in Western culture, which is based on antiquity and Christianity, its model essentially does not change, and it is, let's say, aristotelian, here, through the President, Mr Major mentioned it a little bit. Aristoteles says that there would not be a state, it would not be a society that is somehow organized and coherent if at the beginning there was not a man and a woman, and now - that is precisely the pitfall - a man and a woman have a natural capacity to start a family in the most natural way, and that is - and now, please, I would ask for attention - in the most natural way, without any intervention by the state. Honestly, every society, every culture yearns for it to maintain itself bioculturally, that is, prefers forms of behavior that minimally ensure the biocultural survival and continuation of the society. And that's exactly it. A man and a woman are the only ones who are able to make that decision and ensure the continuation of the family. This is their decision, if nature is on their side, they really manage to ensure the continuation of the family, and so they become parents - I'm not saying that they fill it up, but they have to be the optimal parents - because a good parent can definitely be a person who has a non- heterosexual orientation, but that couple can't offer a child what a heterosexual couple can offer when it's a real and genetic and biological parent, because this couple carries a family history and it's extremely important in raising children. Each of you, when the family met, sometimes he heard, "Well, you get that from your uncle, you get that from your aunt. Grandmother tells her daughter or her son: Attention, I see that our grandson or our granddaughter have a certain disposition toward the type of behavior that may be a risky behavior. And that's just, if it's not a biological continuation, it's just not on the menu. I'll get back to that right and available. I want to be a parent, I want to be married, but that doesn't mean I'm automatically used to it. And I'm really getting back to it - I'm not gonna tell stories or tell or quote from any court revenues, but I just want to say the practical thing. It's just the most practical thing for society to support one type of human behavior, and that's the type that society has been used to calling marriage for centuries, because it's basically the least cost to society. And let them - people who are sexually gender oriented - are not discriminated against at all in our society. That would simply not be in the Chambers of Deputies, they would not be in high managerial positions, actually all doors open to them. It's just this one door we hesitate to open, because we know that there's no biological disposition and that there's really no way that a child can be raised by its biological parents, and that the family history is still there. And now I'm going to say something that I've already upset some of the supporters of this novel. I'm gonna say this because I'm some age, and because, in fact, everyone who's in the House, I don't know, until some 95-year-old, up to the age of ninety-nine years, and they have, like, a university education, they've graduated from college, so they've just been forced to pass the Marxism-Leninism exams. And they are people who had to, those who have a humanitarian education and are a little more interested in philosophy, have watched the fate of Marxist thinking, which, from my point of view, clearly leads to totalitarianism. And I'm going to say again - now I know how angry he is at me, I'm just not going to address specific, but I know that I've already experienced this reaction once - now I'm going to be discriminated and blackened again, when I say that the person who wants to redefine - or society, the forces in society that want to redefine - the basic support pillars that are, again, the most practical and most guaranteed, the most confidently guarantee the biocultural survival of society, so those who want to redefine it always look at them - I have to say because I studied the philosophy faculty at the worst time, at the time of standardisation, so I'm the person who said something else at home and kept quiet - so we see that there are real elements of neomarxism. Now, before you hit me, I'll tell you why. Because already in the Communist manifesto and its interpretations is that the biggest opponent, the greatest source of resistance for any totalitarian regime, is a natural family, because it will find asylum there, and it can continue without the permission of the state, and therefore we must focus on it. I do not at all want to say that Members who, out of goodwill and so on, support, or even co-creators of this legislative proposal, are aware of themselves, that they would reflect the experience, the fact that they are - simply that we, some of us, really see this as the realization of neo-Marxist ideas that need to attack the fundamental institutes, and the fundamental institute is a natural family and a natural marriage. I don't mean to say that people who choose to live together in a stable couple, and I really appreciate the fact that they want to speak out in front of the whole society, in front of the neighborhood to say, "You and I men and two women belong together, and we are loyal to each other for better and for worse." I would - I'm the last person who would want to deny it. And I definitely think it belongs to the title, so far we haven't found any better, we call it a partnership, not a registered partnership. Maybe we can come up with a better name, I don't want to deny it, but at the same time, there is no natural biocultural continuation of society. I keep another one if the proposal goes through another debate, like second reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u33	Thank you, Madame, and please the next envoy, and that is Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you as a heterosexual woman, 34 years of happily married and proud mother of three adult children. I'm not ashamed of either of these identities, I confess to her, I apply to her, and I hope I have my rights. [[11.10 hours]] The situation is serious. I'm sorry about the way the benches went down. We are not talking about VAT, we are not discussing pension reform or consolidation package, and so our colleagues, who are fit in the financial sphere, are probably doing something else now. But I do, and I believe, that value things are something that goes far beyond this term of office. And if I am somewhat ironic, five years from now, few will recall whether our pensioners have received a CZK 700 or CZK 1,700 increase this day, but how we decide on value issues, and that is surely a marriage for all of them, that will be something that will remain here for another decade and will guide us in our negatives and positives. Fortunately, the natural order of the world is something that exists regardless of our decision. And that's something that kind of calms me down because - and you know it - this is just another step on the road to relativize our Western civilization. When the registered partnership law was adopted in 2006, I remember the debate very well, it was also stormy, difficult, and there were words that it was maximum. Children's adoption? No way. Marriage? We didn't think of that. Fifteen years passed, and marriage became a theme for everyone. But I know this isn't the last topic either. It will go on for another fifteen years and maybe some of you will stand here, I certainly won't, and it will be possible to consider a law that will allow polyamoria. And believe me, it is. Because if you look west of our borders, there are states in the world that really are the way we're dealing with marriages for all of us now, they're really dealing with marriages as seriously as they do for more people at the same time. And maybe in another 15 years, it'll go on again. I don't know. But the reason I signed up for this discussion is a little different. I'm a pediatrician, you know that, and if I really love someone in the world, they're children, not just my own, but all my little and big patients, whom I'll always meet in my office on Monday. And it really bothers me, and I'm worried about the kids, because I know that saying that if children grow up in identical sex families doesn't affect them, it's just a lie. I've really been trying hard to find some relevant data. It's hard to find data at this time that doesn't support what's flying or what's under the rainbow flag. But solid psychologists will tell you that the data can't yet be, because it takes two to three generations to evaluate or evaluate the influence of child education. So we really can't have the data at this point. But because sometimes it's not wrong to be behind, in America, there's already a generation of adults who have been raised by the same sex parents, and they're not good news. But the reality is that these adults protest, respond, and blame society for what it allowed to happen to them in their childhood. And that's a really high finger for me, because these people are adults today, financially independent and talk about their childhood and how many years and sometimes even decades it took them to actually understand the deficit with which they grew up and to find a way to replace it. True, even these are not two generations, so even this cannot be drawn from any hasty conclusions. However, we know that children learn to imitate and that they need a model of motherhood and a model of paternity for their healthy, harmonious development. I'm not saying that this pattern must always be a biological parent, but really, the pattern of manhood and femininity is irreplaceable for children. Recently, two weeks ago, we had a round table on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which was held by our MP Pavla Golasowská on the topic of paternity, and the psychologists who performed there returned to the Chamber of Deputies after five years. It was Dr. Trapková and Dr. Chvála, and they were projecting slides from that year 2018 and saying that they were almost surprised at how some of their fears and forecasts are being fulfilled. And they are not only, of course, Czech psychologists. One of the most famous psychologists who deals with human psyche and especially children, Erik Erikson, talks about eight periods, eight stages of the age of man. And beware, five of these stages are experienced in one's primary family, five out of eight. This means that the influence of parents is really irreplaceable, irreplaceable, and no one can say that it doesn't matter whether a child experiences the pattern of a man and a model of a woman, or just the pattern of two men or two women. I also get letters, of course. And after today, I think I'm gonna get some nice ones again. But that doesn't bother me. Even though I'm wearing a blue dress, I might be a black ass again, but I can handle it. What is really important, and that is why I am standing here: please, when you are protecting yourself with children, really seek their good and do not hide your selfish desires or your selfish desires for them, because those children really do not deserve it. I have grown children, and I have to say, my children see the world with a slightly different optics than I do. I have patients with homosexual orientation. I have friends from the LGBT community. And that is why I think that really is the time to adjust some of the legislative parameters of the so-called registered partnership. And we as KDU-ČSL, although it may have surprised many, have prepared a middle path. He worked on it for a long time, carefully, and, of course, with the help of lawyers, our Member, Jiří Navrátil. In this proposal, 90 percent of what those calling for marriage for everyone really want to change. [[11.20 hours]] And what's not there, and for which I never raise my hand, is for the possibility of adopting children here, because I'm afraid at this particular, chaotic time when we allow the adoption of gay couples, these couples will take precedence over heterosexual applicants. And I know why I'm saying this because I really have my experience of attacking, homophobia, darkening, and medieval attitudes. So if I sum it up, we can't change the natural order of the world, whether we accept marriage for everyone or not. Children who grow up in homosexual families will surely be marked by this upbringing. And what impact it will have on future generations, we may never know, and the middle road really exists and I repeat again that we have it ready. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u35	Thank you, Madame. Your speech raised one point of fact. Mr. Vít Vomáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only use my two minutes, and I believe that they will be enough for me. I would like to thank you for yesterday's speech by Mrs Válková, who, in my opinion, called our decision quite clearly. We'll answer to our constituents, our precinct, where we'll explain. That is why, of course, I will say in conclusion here how I will vote. But for this performance, I was provoked by my honored colleague Romana Bělohlávková, who used the word: if we look west of us. I've always liked to look west of us, but I'm sure we've all been here lately wondering if the west is the right thing to do. And now maybe I'm running into all these different Green Deals and stuff. I know the world is changing. Europe is changing in an incredible way, we are leaving - we are getting rid of traditional values. And while I was watching, there was a young generation at the gallery. Of course, if I oppose this legislation, I will certainly not win my votes in this generation. But at the same time, by explaining it to my constituents, I'm going to compare it to my vision of the world the way I was raised, one to the other... And I don't need to stand here at this counter for 20 minutes and explain, because I believe that 95 percent of Members are decided today how they will vote. So I'm just saying, for me, it's a standard that's out of the question for me to raise my hand for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have another factual point here, Mr Vladimír Zlínský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u38	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express myself. I'm here to respond to my previous speaker, doctor. I'll look into it from the point of view of evolution of the human race. It has already been mentioned here that actually the institution of marriage between a man and a woman has evolved - I do not think that it is centuries, that it is directly millennia - because, if it did not exist, the stability of reproduction of our societies would not be guaranteed, so those companies would not exist. I would like to point out that we are all aware of this, that the birth rate of our populations is falling, especially the Western ones, that it is a very negative trend, and I would like to point out that instead of discussing how this adverse trend will lead to the disappearance or replacement of our societies, we are talking about the things that I would not say completely - I would not say that I do not understand those colleagues who are proposing this here, but I consider this to be a minority against the problem that we are faced with by this, and we will be built in the near future and finally see it in the pension reform that we are actually under-reproduction, because the birth rate in our country is 1.7 in other western countries is even lower. So this is what we should primarily address, the decline of birth rate, not marriage for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u39	Thank you for complying with the time limit and given that there is no further factual comment, please another registered, Mrs Levka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. I am actually convinced that it is time to ensure equal rights for same-sex couples. Let me take a little turn into the past. At the beginning of the last century, in our parts, women fought for their rights, so that they could even vote. They succeeded in 1920. And the hand on the heart, ladies, today we can no longer imagine that we would not go to the elections, that we could not be elected, and in any other way they were reduced to their rights. And also then part of the company of men, but also women, was against this change. And I think we need to move forward on our journey for the equal rights of all citizens, at this point in time, to ensure equal rights to the same sex couples. I am convinced that this will simply happen sooner or later, in some countries they already have this standard. And so I ask, why not do it now? And at the end of the day, one comment. In fact, I do not fully understand the disapproval of part of society and part of Members, especially because the institution of marriage, as we know it today, will not have any rights reduced there. In other words, I'm not gonna hurt anybody, and we're gonna help parts of society feel like equals. And I'm convinced, including children who already live and live in the same sex couples today, it's just legalized. So I would like to ask you to look at it with this optics and support this legislative standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u41	Thank you, Madame, and now, please, do we have a factual point or a priority? Priority, yes. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, in order for me to respond a little longer than those two minutes, I am speaking with priority rights. However, it is actually a bit of a reaction not only to my honored speakers, but also to other contributions that have been made here in the past part of the debate. First of all, I want to thank you for the fact that, apart from perhaps some minor exceptions, the debate is being conducted in a very factual and decent manner. I think it's meant to be. I do not want to talk here for a very long time, because the arguments from my mouth here, especially during the last parliamentary term, have been heard a lot, and there will probably still be time and space, but two things I want to remind you of. It's been said repeatedly that there's a debate on rights, and I just want to say that I don't think so. The debate is not about rights, but the debate is about values, because marriage itself is not right. If I wanted to compare it figuratively now, do I have the right to be FC Barcelona's football player? I don't think that's right, that's some way someone who has some talent, some options, and very often also gets lucky. But so is marriage not a right and its purpose is not to treat the relationship of two people who love each other. Love is something other than justice. These things are supposed to stand next to each other, they're not supposed to get together. I really appreciate every relationship between two people, and it doesn't matter if it's a relationship between two men, whether it's a relationship between two lesbians, whether it's a marriage relationship between a man and a woman, or whether it's a relationship between a grandson and a grandmother or a daddy and a daughter. These are different forms and different forms of love that we do not have the tendency to label or put into some boundaries of the rule of law or to be convinced that until something is done, our rights are being denied. We here as legislators are not to enter into this, we are not to engage in the relations of two loving persons. It's their business, after all, when I say it very popularly, co-workers, colleagues, it's nothing. [[11.30 hours]] We are not even debating minority rights, and if there is a right - and I fully agree with that - it is the right to straighten out some of the things that registered couples today - and I am just so that they are not registered couples, let them be couples - so that these things are straightened out. It's about the rights, yes, about the right to the common property of the two who live together. There it is about the law that concerns the inheritance. There it is about the law that concerns all other circumstances of life, as our laws finally speak about them, and the Civil Code, and when my colleague Navrátil and I prepared the amendment of the law with our team, it concerns more than thirty laws. There we are already in the area of rights, there is a place to talk about it and we are the last ones to want to prevent it, and on the contrary we consider it a reasonable way - someone said it here, some of the proposals were here in the last parliamentary term, the proposal is ready and we are ready to implement the government's programming statement in this sense, but we are not having a debate on the right to marriage. It may be such an attempt at shortcuts, to achieve all these other rights by shortcuts, and not by going honestly and looking for where all these things are not straightened out and should be straightened out. This debate is being held on various ground plans, including the coalition - I am convinced that if we do so honestly, this will actually come to an equalization of those rights. But please, let's go about this honestly and not with that shortcut, because I really believe that there is no such thing as the right to a marriage, as well as the right to a child - yes, I am quite clear here, I am not convinced, or am convinced, that there is no right to a child. A child is a gift, a miracle, a union of two lives, a man and a woman, and this is how it should be. Let us clearly separate the plane of law and the plane of what belongs to the relationship of two loving persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u43	Thank you, Mr President, and now with another duly signed up Mrs Jana Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm going to be very short, but I can see that the debate is going to go back to where somebody wants to go by the time we miss it, because if you look at it, the next point starts at 12.15, and I'm really sorry. I would like to thank all my colleagues who are here across the political spectrum, except for some exceptions which I personally do not like. This is the third time I have had this debate in this Chamber of Deputies. I am here for the third term, and the third term is being discussed. I have a personal feeling that this composition of the House is a little bit moving for me as a supporter of this law in a better direction. There's been talk, some opinions are different here than they were nine years ago. I'd like to respond a little to some colleagues. I'm also a mom, I have a daughter, I love children, I love my grandchildren, and I can't agree that couples who raise a child in a union of the same sex, that these kids have something worse to do than heterosexual couples. In my last job, 20 years of rescue calls, maybe I could tell you about it. Because I love children, I wish every child a loving family. I went to children's homes to practice, and I'm really gonna love it when a child from a foster home has a loving family, even the same sex couples, rather than in a child's home where there's no role model at all for that family, none at all, so that even this child can live in a happy family, whether it's mom-mom or dad. I know colleagues, I'm sure you know every one of you here, and when I see how they take care of these kids, they go to zoos for ice cream, on vacation, I really like kids, and I really like those kids, and these kids from foster homes, I wish everyone could have such a family, and I really don't really care if it's a man and a woman or a same sex couple. Another thing I would like to say - as I said, I perceive the House, as it shifts a bit in those nine years, I may not be here in 30 years or I will certainly not be here, and maybe when I do not think as a Member, I think as a citizen, because this is what I think - other Members will be sitting in thirty years, as my colleague says we are not ready for it yet, I am thinking that they will have to think about how long it took us to approve it, that it will be all about something else. I'm not gonna hold you back, even though I can see that it's going to go somewhere completely blocked again to stop it. I've been used to this for the past three term, but I'm going to read a text that came from my colleague, an almost the same old friend, in a heterosexual couple, has two children, it doesn't concern her family, but she writes to me: "Have a nice day, Jan, very much to you, and especially to all those who are most concerned, let it be able to enforce what should have been here a long time ago. I am secretly listening to the Chamber of Deputies at work and holding everything I have." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u45	Thank you, Madame, and now, please, another duly signed in, Mrs Helena Válková. I'm just saying, 12.15, 34 minutes...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u46	I know, I am alerted, Mr Vice-President, because some of the listeners, dear Members, know my somewhat Renaissance speeches, so of course I have been alerted to the fact that I am taking time from a possible vote and moving this law to first reading, but I would have only two, three, four comments. The first is because I read in the media, which are also here, that the ANO movement is playing some weird political game and that actually the hostage is the marriage law for identical sex couples. So maybe someone is playing this game, I don't want to speak for all of them, nor can I, but there are a lot of us in the ANO movement, who have been trying to push this issue through for the third term. It has not always succeeded, I myself, as the Human Rights Commissioner, have tried it several times, and in this regard, the media are right that I have not been able to enforce it on the government to vote on it, but it was not that there was a disagreement. There were other, more important sentences, and you know that the pandemic that gave everyone a hard time, I mean really, legislatively and socially, delayed this press, and I also understood why it was not discussed. But we can always make excuses, on the other hand, now the excuse isn't super-current here, and I'm really glad we finally got to the point that we're talking about this press, and maybe we can move it forward. [[He's showing the material.]] I have statistics here that I am not going to read right now because I would take valuable time, even if I see that we are still ten and there is a fixed point, so obviously the vote on the commandments of the committees will not work out - because I believe it will turn out well, in this I am an optimist - this meeting time to use, i.e. to move the press today, and the damage it certainly is. I just wanted to mention one thing here, and although Mr Výborný spoke about it through you, and I agree, for example, with his statement that the child and his birth are a miracle, and when we enter this area, we are entering a certain, say, phenomenon that we cannot or do not want to explain only biologically, so when it comes to his approach to marriage, it seems to me that it is not entirely accurate, because if we look at the proposed amendment to the Civil Code, § 655, and therefore I agree again with Mr Dufk, through you that it is a big, fundamental change, which - although it is essentially the replacement of two words by two words - changes the whole perception of marriage as a union between men and women, so it is something that I would not compare to a miracle. [[11.40 hours]] I think that many of us have failed at least the first marriage attempt, the statistics behind the Czech Republic are not good, but it can be corrected, we have the opportunity to remarriage for those who could not be discouraged by the shipwreck of the first, and marriage is simply a legal institute, not the birth of a child. I would like to compare love to the birth of a child between a man and a woman or a woman and a woman and a man and a man and a man. That's something that sometimes you can't explain, and you don't have a rational reason for it. But marriage as a specific legal institute, which we adjust by replacing the word marriage is a permanent union of a man, and a woman's version of marriage is a permanent union of two people created in a way that this law - the Civil Code - is here in mind - is something that we have in our hands. So I'm gonna try to live up to my resolution, and I'm gonna end up giving a speech in about one tenth of what I've prepared. I'm showing the camera that I've had enough. But I think I will have plenty of opportunities in the second reading, in the committees decisively, if someone proposes - I will not suggest it, but if someone proposes - that the time period between discussion and individual readings will be extended, it is perfectly legitimate, because I agree, as has already been said, that this is a fundamental change, albeit very brief, which falls to many, to dozens of related legislation. So we'll definitely be in favour of extending the deadline between reading. Or I suppose we wouldn't be against it. And I also want to ask you, not to ask, I can't even ask you to let this press really go into the next legislative process as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u47	Thank you. Your speech raised one point of fact, Mr Dufek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u48	I have to respond to my previous speaker, whom I perceive as, of course, a brisk lawyer. I would really like our discussion to be exhausted right here, at first reading, because it will get into committees where about 20 people will deal with it, a narrow circle of people, but that is a very fundamental law. I don't think a lot of people realize these conventions, and I'm really worried that we have to do it, we have to put 200 people in the first reading like this so that they know what they're really voting about. That's the kind of thing... All I can hear for now is: I want to be full, I want to have the right, the right, the right... But please, every subjective right encounters the subjective rights of others, and we have not yet defined the subjective rights of those little children in this debate, what rights they have. That doesn't even ring a bell. I was expecting it to be much better, honestly I'm telling you this argument rather than just come in and say, I want to be full. Well, I'm not talking yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u50	Thanks for the clear statement, so let's try to play it at first reading. So I have already spoken, I see that there will be many other speakers. Now I only have two minutes. I take this as a challenge, and let us say this in the context of detailed reasoning reasons why we want or why we admit and seriously address this possibility already in the first reading. I think that's a legitimate request, and I'm grateful that you said it on the microphone transparently, my dear fellow. But let me just say, the constitutional-legal committee, of course, is closest to that, it's 20 people, but I think it wouldn't just be left with one committee, that it would take, as I've already noticed, at least, I'm not going to calculate them right now, four committees wanted to comment on it, I know, even five. I don't think it's 20 people. But let's do this a little bit more grunt, get ready to do it, set aside a whole day of negotiations, let's say at first reading, and maybe I'll be an optimist, convince those who are either hesitant or even in position now, who knows what the fatal consequences would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u51	Thank you and please Mrs Renáta Zajíčková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u52	Good almost noon to all who are watching, and I think there are a lot of them, for today's debate, and of course good noon to all colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin or bring my own consideration here, I would just like to express myself, through you, Mr President, about the pressure that is being put on us here, in the sense that we are trying to prolong something and so on - it is not at all so. I just remember the moments that you were here calling for a lot to discuss, that from that it is the first reading, and I think that what we are discussing today is such a crucial thing, such a crucial thing that will affect our future generations, that if we spend three days on it, I think that nothing will happen at all, because it is exactly as my previous speakers have said here, that sometimes we are discussing things and giving them hours that really very soon may really lose some validity or significance, but what we are doing today is really very important to our society, and so please take time and let us not put any pressure on ourselves. So even if we don't make it tonight and we do it another time, I actually think that's right. It's gonna be in our heads too, it's gonna ripen. I sit here, I perceive it carefully, I listen, I care, I take this very seriously, and that's why I think this discussion is part of it, let's talk about it and let's not underestimate it, please. And I would also like to respond to my previous speaker, again through you, Mr President, he was a colleague of Exner, who spoke here, and I did not have time to respond to a factual point, but I have to define myself very strongly and fundamentally against what he said here, and I have to say that I feel very concerned, and I would almost dare say that I would like to ask his apology for what he said here and what he said here, because it is outrageous. You asked us to approach the matter seriously. I think all of us are serious about this. And I have to say, all of us who are performing and expressing our views here, we're actually risking our personal reputation, because what goes down on social networks, perhaps after today's debate on a certain opinion, you can all imagine. So we're actually bringing our skin to the market here, we're not afraid to express our thoughts here, and you're accusing us, again, through you, Mr President, of being out there and all that. I'm actually asking you to apologize for what you said. And now, my little thought. There's been a lot going on here. Some of the ideas that have been here, I would have underlined all ten, I identify with them, and I must say that on both sides, I will say that. But I'm leaning towards one, and I'm certainly more in favour of a more conservative approach. We all know that time doesn't stop, that everything is still evolving and changing. Living, inanimate nature, man as a species, but also weather and fashion. Our society and our institutes are changing, which define everything human. Even if we don't notice changes, sometimes they come like the wind. And in every development like this, we ask ourselves what the change has brought us, whether and to whom it has been useful, and whether this change has led us to a blind path. All these moments have been experienced by our humanity. [[11.50 hours]] The only one who checks and evaluates the usefulness and benefits of these changes is time. It will create an opportunity to look back and evaluate our efforts and wills. Only after some time can it be said whether historical changes have brought the desired result. As a conservative, I'm not throwing yesterday in the trash, but I'm also not automatically over tomorrow, because we never know what it's gonna bring us. When it comes to the question of same-sex couples, we've already moved on in time here. We went through a period where the same sexual relationship was criminalized. We went through a time when this relationship stopped being criminalized, but it was in a legal vacuum. We are now in a period when the relationship between gay couples is legalized in the form of a registered partnership. I want to stress that we live in an exceptionally free country. Our society is very tolerant and open to all and to all, i.e. even homosexuals have every right in our society. At the moment, we are in a state where we have two institutes - marriage and a registered partnership. Since 2006, the same sex couples have received legal support, which at that time was the maximum possible. This institute, too, has been put to the test of time. After all these years, we see that this change had no fatal effect on society. We see that society has managed to identify with such a change and has not brought anything harmful and restrictive into our lives. The question I'm asking myself and which hangs in the air is this: didn't it just take it easy because the change was slow? I'm in favour of equalizing all property rights with the same sex couples. I don't see the reason why a partner's joint assets couldn't be created. I am in favour of the conclusion of the same sex union having the same essentials as the marriage, i.e. in order to be able to make a bond on any matrix, which we discussed yesterday to close the union behind the presence of witnesses and so on. In short, not just an administrative act, but a full confirmation that two people love each other. The next question, of course, is the name itself. I am in favour of the word registered or replacing it with a more dignified name. I see arguments that contradict the interpretation of the word marriage as a union between a man and a woman. However, I think that our society takes it this way, it takes the word marriage as a union between a man and a woman, which is why I would stay with it, so that each institute has its own name. If this is the case with society, I see no reason why we should change this. Believe me, I don't make any difference between people, and I don't care if Vlasta is with Vlasta or Vlasta with Vlasta. But we have to admit that there are differences here too, that homosexual couples and heterosexual couples are different. Not that one loves more and others less, not that one is less sensitive to their feelings, but that one couple is biologically capable of having a child and the other is not. This is just a fact. Please, let's be fair and not deny this. It is this difference that leads me to ask questions in relation to children in the case of marriage for all, regardless of whether or not I make any prior judgments. There's another thing that has to do with it. The question of parenting is not just about who and how it is registered on the birth certificate. In connection with the education of children of the same sex couples, there is also the question of the sulrogate motherhood, which we do not yet have as a society clear. I'm a proponent of step by step. Not because I'm scared of change, not because I don't wish anything on anyone, but because society gets along with everything, embraces itself, and eventually doesn't turn against those who call for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u53	Thank you, Madame. I ask another registered - sorry, we still have one de facto - Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to my colleague. Bunny and I fully agree with her, by your means, Mr President. You know, my colleague Exner should apologize for his words. However, I understand his position because this view has already been heard in the public space several times, for example by the rapporteur of Czech Television Nora Fridrichová, who has made a report on this subject now. The Czech Television Council also considered it unbalanced. Why do I care? Because I was also a participant in her report. I dare - I have done this before - quote from Echo24: "The Council also rejected Fridrichová's argument that the conflict between supporters and opponents of marriage is another battlefield of the conflict in Ukraine. " Colleagues, my colleague, we should be proponents of critical thinking, not taking on such - now I don't know how to find a decent word, I am from Ostrava, I can't think of a decent word - such kinds of opinions and lecture them at the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u55	Thank you and I will ask Mrs Helena Válková, with due cause.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u56	Just a precaution, Mr. Vice-President. We should definitely weigh our words. We in the mandate and immune committee have a lot of work to do, we don't get bored, and we don't want to discuss it. Of course, the insult made, which is felt by any Member or Member as an insult from a colleague, a colleague, a Member, is the subject of negotiations. If an offended person turns to a mandate and an immune committee, we'll discuss it, but I believe you'll explain it to each other. But I have one more thing to say. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Zajíčková's speech, through you, and I think I can agree with her here, as well as with Mr Dufk, by your means, that here in the Chamber of Deputies is the best place for us to discuss these views and also agree whether it is time or not. With the suffocating motherhood that we raised with Mrs Ožanová, because it was just said that something had to be done about it, and we all know that we are a grey zone, and no one prefers to do anything about it. This question is also linked - and I want to invite you here with a microphone, on 22 June Mala are holding - but it doesn't matter here, if it is two members for YES, we have a slightly different opinion - but we are holding a round table where we will only listen and at least as Members we will enter it, I hope, genetics, psychologists, policemen, Supreme Court judges, nonprofits, all who have something to say about it so that we can correct the issue. But this, in my opinion, cannot be compared to the issue of same-sex marriage, because we've been discussing this for years, while we've been discussing surrogate motherhood for weeks. [[President: We have time, indeed.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u57	Mr Munzar is now duly registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, colleagues and colleagues. We are experiencing a conflict here in society, including in our parliament, in the view of marriage. From my point of view, it's a clash of two diametrically different angles of view. Everyone looks at marriage from a different angle, and that's why the two opinions are hard to meet. The one who has great media support and support for marriage promoters for all is the view of marriage as a legal institute that describes the technical and legislative coexistence of two people to make life easier for them. I recognize the second view, which considers marriage to be the true meaning of the assumption, I stress, the assumption of ensuring the natural continuation of society, and for this reason marriage is worth increased protection and benefits. That's its true meaning, and that's why it's special. It is not merely a legislative, let's say, technical and legal regulation of coexistence, even if it leads to a noble feeling, such as love. That's why marriage remains my exclusive bond of men and women. It's something special and family is the traditional foundation of our state. I will defend this view, although it is not popular in some circles today. But I'm not denying anyone the right to live with someone in that opinion. Let everyone live with whom they want, especially if they feel a very strong bond with each other, and I respect the inner identity of each individual. But by changing the traditional value of marriage into something else, its true nature would have vanished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u59	Yes, sir, I understand, thank you for calming me down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u60	We all remember a social debate about a registered partnership. This was precisely a requirement for legislation to safeguard certain individual rights and remove certain obstacles to joint coexistence. That's what they said at the time, that's what the target was. Today, this union is called a disgraceful union of restrictive rights. I am open to the debate to adjust specific individual rights and legislative changes, which will facilitate the coexistence of identical sex couples on a practical daily basis, with which I think no one has a major problem. The problem is that this marriage initiative is fair, and marriage supporters are not enough for everyone. The symbol is important, it is the name of marriage, and it is a social, philosophical and political debate on principle. This is what we will decide whether to leave marriage to its original, traditional and true meaning, and the real meaning is the connection between a man and a woman from whose connection their own descendants will come, or we will deny that meaning and then the marriage will really be just a technical and legal arrangement for the coexistence of two persons. It's kind of a decision between the future, the continuation of our society, or the present, the adjustment of rights between two people. By the way, what is now called rights is de facto originally benefits that society has devoted to those who have the potential to ensure its natural continuation. We will not change our vote that our descendants naturally arise from the union of men and women. It's not a social construct, it's a decision of nature, it's not a human rights issue. It is only a false and dangerous notion that we will change and remake the natural nature of mankind. Yes, not every existing marriage can exploit and exploit its potential for the continuation of society, since each marriage is not ideal. Unfortunately, life brings many unfortunate reasons for which there is also a high divorce rate, which also leads to many reasons, and one of them is to abandon the perception of marriage as a traditional value. But will we contribute to this erosion? Will we send a signal to the Czech public that marriage is merely a technical and legal arrangement for coexistence? Proponents of the same-sex marriage in their words and arguments in this counter and in the public debate turn the value of marriage from my perspective into a technical standard to describe the coexistence of two people. However, the main reason for promoting the marriage of identical sex couples is the adoption of children. In the background of the whole discussion, not the right, but the right to a child, no matter where it is actually taken. But the important thing in this discussion must be that children cannot choose, they are not asked. The argument for adoptionists is that there are marriages that aren't ideal, that are going to break up. Yes, a broken marriage is not ideal for children. But no one gets married to break up. Or we can talk about marriage when one of the partners dies. In such a case, not only will one parent be missing, but also either the role of a man or the role of a woman and a demonstration of the relationship between them. A child learns according to parents and interaction in everyday life between a man and a woman is also the basis for preparing children for their own adult life. Unfortunately, many things can happen in life when a family is not ideal, but marriage is not closed to make it not ideal for children, on the contrary. But today we would have planned to create a marriage where one of the natural roles and one of the patterns would be missing. I do not question the possible love and concern for children in such a union, but one of the roles of a man or woman would be missing there and we would have planned to make such a situation by voting. I refuse to bagel this thing. Personal stories have been used here, and I'll share a personal story with you. My father died when I was ten years old, and in my upbringing, women from my kinship, my mother, my aunt, my grandmother. They did it, they did the best they could, but in a way, it was a restriction in life. One of the roles was just missing. It can be done, but it's not ideal. And that's why I'll never, ever, ever create a planned, unideal situation with my voice to any child, where one of the roles - man or one of the roles - of a woman will be planned. Kids can't choose. The argument that we pursue the child's interests by marriage to everyone is wrong. Rather, this proposal fills the desire of identical sex couples to raise a child who, naturally, cannot have together as biological parents. That is why we are pushed into this decision. But does it really reflect the rights of children when they have no right to choose? Imagine, colleagues, in yourself a hypothetical situation where you have an orphan, you have to decide on his adoption and you have two couples as an interested party. One pair is identical and one is heterosexual. Both can offer the same level of background, have the same social and economic level, have the same education, have the same positive relationship with children, are equally decent, equally kind, as nice. What's your decision? What's your decision? When I asked this question to the representatives of marriage for all, I learned better that it didn't matter. It doesn't matter! If we think of this orphan's interest, his concern is to have both roles, including men and women, beside each other in everyday life. But in fact, children in the vast majority are not orphans, they are children who have biological parents, so they are not legally free, and the adoption decision must be preceded by a decision that a biological parent ceases to have the right to his child, but in particular that the child ceases to have the right to his biological parent, at least one parent in the same sex couples. I will not go into the details of the Czech rule of law, I am not a lawyer, but at least morally it is always a very difficult decision. But we should also discuss this when discussing whether it is right whether such children are normal and right to take the right to their biological parents. We are confronted sometimes with a very aggressive campaign with a lot of pressure to convince us that having an opinion other than progressive is old and bad. However, if the company leaves the values on which it is built, it is doomed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u61	Colleagues, co-workers, please calm down in the room, there's not enough of us here to make a noise so loud. On both sides of the hall - both at the right side of the hall, please transfer your discussions into the hall and in the left side of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u62	Thank you, Mr President. We are witnessing labeling in public debate, on social networks. I have read many times the statement that anyone who has a different opinion and does not support marriage for everyone is homophobic. Or here from Mr. Exner that the conservative view of the matter is actually pro-Russian. The stickers aren't appropriate, it's not fair! The advocates of the same sex marriage called their campaign We are fair, but labeling really is not fair! Homophobia is just a label that activists use for opinions that are uncomfortable for them. If we really want to unite society and not divide society, we need to start with tolerance of opinion. It is not possible to require tolerance of intolerance. I have a different opinion than some of you, but I respect your opinion, although I do not agree with it. And I expect the same thing from each and every one of you. I signed a proposal to establish a marriage as a union between a man and a woman, not in response to concrete proposals for a change in the Civil Code, but because the value of the marriage itself is disappearing. On the contrary, I believe that protecting a traditional family, marriage as a union between one man and one woman, can help stabilise an increasingly volatile society. Today's society is raised in having as many rights as possible or rather having as many claims as possible. The question is whether this approach, when applied within marriage, is not one of the reasons for the breakup of marriage. Even in marriage, we must respect each other, respect his views, and no marriage will work well if one is too self - centered in him, does not respect, for example, the other's natural limitations, and, for example, wants to enforce his alleged claims at all costs. Such a marriage will not work well, and so will our society. And I'll repeat what I said in the beginning. The true meaning of marriage is to safeguard the natural continuation of society. For this reason, increased protection and benefits are considered. That is its true meaning, and that is why it is exceptional. It's not just a technical regulation for the coexistence of two people. Therefore, I will not support the proposal for a same-sex marriage, but I have no problem adjusting individual rights for the coexistence of same-sex couples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u63	Your performance brought up two factual points. With the first point of fact, Mr Haas will speak, and then Mrs Válková will follow, but I warn you that I will have to interrupt you at 12.15 because we have a fixed point. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u64	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Following the debate and the offer that was made by several previous speakers, I would like to submit in accordance with § 90 para. 7, so that it doesn't fit before the end of the debate at 12.15, the motion to refer the law back to the appellants for revision. If the words about seeking a compromise are seriously meant, then I considered whether to file a motion for rejection - it fell here from colleagues from the SPD, I submit in accordance with § 90 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the application for the re-evaluation of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u65	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sure. And now, with Mrs Válková's point of fact, she will speak. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u66	I just wanted to point out, Mr Vice-President, that the issue that concerns child education, and that is also a big deal here, and that is also related to the issue of adoption, I assume that the amendments will be dealt with even more in detail, because I also see space there, and I would not be afraid of it. It is a bold step, but some foreign legislation has a differentiated approach in such cases as my previous speaker has mentioned. This means when they are the same - and I am aware of what I am saying - the conditions, the same conditions, given the social perception of the role of the family in a given society, preference is given to the adoption of a heterosexual couple. So it's nothing that's discriminatory, and we shouldn't rule it out from the debate, even though I'm aware that a number of those who are supporters of the institute's anchoring of the same-sex marriage might now feel offended. I think we should learn more from what they know abroad. And obviously society isn't ready, in its entirety certainly not - I dare say it's about half-and-half - for the situation that my previous speaker described here, that if both couples - the same sex and heterosexual - were in the same way, allowing adoption, let's say, to the same sex couple with the justification that otherwise it would be discriminatory. Our society is not like that, and in such a case, I could imagine legislation which, in the light of social development and so on, would prefer someone else. [[Time, Madame!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-006-071.u67	Your two minutes have gone by. It's still a little stretchy, it's 12.15. I have to interrupt item 71, and I'm interrupting point 71, because we have item 68 on 12.15. This is about
