ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u1	18. Government bill on the protection of notifiers / House print 352 - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be given by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u2	Hello. Thank you for the floor. To begin with, points 18 and 19 are linked and I would welcome the proposal to merge the debate. As such, I would like to say roughly the following: these are two bills prepared by the Ministry of Justice in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan for the remainder of 2022, which will at the same time complete the Government's programming declaration and transpose the European directive, whose deadline for implementation expired on 17 December 2021. This is a draft law on the protection of notifiers and a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the protection of notifiers. [[11.50 hours]] Both proposals went through a broad expert discussion in the interdepartmental commentary procedure. Its result is that the government was presented with an almost unbiased solution, supported by the discussion of proposals with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs on 31 August 2022. Protecting the notifiers, the so-called whistleblowers, is a fundamental means of combating corruption and further infringement in society. The introduction of a comprehensive and functional legal framework for the protection of notifiers can achieve considerable savings not only in public but also in private funds, prevent environmental damage and harm to the lives and health of persons, or prevent damage to the public interest in a number of other areas. However, despite repeated efforts to enforce more effective protection for notifiers by means of law in the Czech Republic, the necessary law is still missing. The laws referred to aim to provide protection to a wide range of persons working in the private and public sectors in the event of notification of an infringement occurring within the organisation where they work. Not only employees but also business partners of employers, self-employed persons, interns and volunteers, as well as persons who helped the notifiers to notify or detect the infringement, are to be protected from retaliation. It will be possible to announce negotiations that violate EU legislation or regulations governing areas of European interest, such as the area of preventing the legalisation of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism or the environment. The key obligation imposed by draft laws on selected employers is the obligation to create credible channels for reporting and providing protection against sanctions or disadvantages as a result of notification, even in cases where the originator of the retaliation measure is different from the employer. In this context, it should be pointed out that the proposed measures, such as an enforceable ban on retaliatory measures or the transfer of the burden of proof to employers, are not only intended to protect the notifiers themselves, but also to prevent serious anti-social activity in general. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to express your support for the proposals put forward so that the Czech Republic can meet its obligations arising from its membership of the European Union and, at the same time, ensure the adoption of an effective instrument for combating corruption and other infringements, which these proposals are undoubtedly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u3	Thank you, Minister. I understand your point at the beginning that you are putting this as a proposal to merge the debate in paragraphs 18 and 19?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u4	I confess, Mr President, that I was not sure if I could suggest it. If I may, I suggest it. But I have a deal with a colleague of mine who is worthy of suggesting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u5	As an MP, you can suggest that, Minister, so I'm registering it as your proposal. Nevertheless, I will ask the rapporteur to speak on this point, and I ask that Mr Radek Vondráček take the floor. It's running. Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I spoke with President Vondráček, he's on his way to the O.R. I'd like to take a break until 11.56. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u7	Yes, thank you, and I'm declaring a break until 11.56. [[The hearing is suspended from 11.53 to 11.56 hours.]] So, it is 11.56, the break has passed, and I will ask the rapporteur of this press, Mr Radek Vondráček, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thanks to this press, I have been running a bit today. Thank you for your kindness. On the other hand, I said I wouldn't extend my performance. I think that what will happen with this press is that the government coalition will cooperate constructively with the opposition, because this topic and this law have been passed by the previous government in the last parliamentary term. At that time, Minister Marie Benešová came here regularly and always waited for this point to come her turn. She wasn't as lucky as I am today that it got so fast and we made it to second reading. Basically the same material appears to us again, and I think I also know which way to go next. These are precisely the changes that have been made in the press in comparison with the original proposal from the 8th parliamentary term, and this is the question of maintaining the anonymity of the notifiers and the question of the circle of protection, when offences have been surprisingly eliminated in this proposal, while assessing whether this is an offence or an offence, it is often a rather professional and complex assessment, on which, for example, law enforcement authorities have specialists who spend their entire lives doing so and have the right education for it. Of course, what we're looking at is the individual cases, we know that the anonymity is actually the most basic thing, the preservation of anonymity is the most important thing we can do in this area. It is precisely because of anonymous announcements that some cases are being investigated in the end, and there will be a police investigation. After all, as an example, we can mention the Dozimeter case, where there has actually been some anonymous announcement, and if it would not be built for sure that the notifiers have such protection, then the whole law becomes a toothless instrument, and it is a question of whether it will not just be the adoption of a law that is in the government's programming declaration - I remind you, which is taken as a priority within the government's programming declaration - but to make it not just a law for the law, but to really be applicable and effective in practice. I can say for the YES movement that we have already prepared amendments that will restore the press to its original form, as it was proposed two years ago when I put it roughly. And I hope that the press in our constitutional law committee will be subject to good debate and that (a) we will be able to convince the petitioner that the original version was better, or (b) we will get an explanation of why the printing was actually modified in the way it was modified. That is why I think that, in the rest, I would refer to the debate at second reading in the constitutional law committee, and I support and support the proposal that has been made here by the Minister, and that is the merger of the debate with these two press, because they agree directly to each other, and that is why we have the relevant provisions in the Rules of Procedure. So far, for starters, from the position of rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-007-018.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for the intelligence report. We will now vote to merge the debate and, respectively, on this procedural proposal after your speech. I have begun and will repeat that, in the introductory words, the Minister has proposed a merger of the debate on paragraphs 18 and 19. We will vote on this procedural proposal now. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal that we merge the debate on these two points? Let him press the yes button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 59, 156 Members were enrolled, 135 voted in favour, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. So we merged the debate on paragraphs 18 and 19. Then I interrupt item 18. Opening point
