ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended (the House Print 346), second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Minister Jurečka for the Minister of Trade and Industry Jozef Síkela. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I am here to introduce this material in the second reading, House press No Síkela, which is an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, and I am actually very pleased that this material is directly related to the agenda of my department, and that is the issue of people who belong to socially vulnerable groups. This proposal is presented in a second reading of the law, where we are amending this law, and as already stated during the first reading, the aim of this proposed bill is to define more precisely the circle of people with just low incomes in relation to the issue of so-called special prices within the universal service. This is simply a discount on the price of the tariff. A very important aspect is also an improvement in the control and minimization of the abuse of this institute by the fact that the right to special prices will not newly be proved merely by an honest statement, but will be bound to receive a living allowance. On 19 January 2023, the draft law was discussed by the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies its approval, as amended by the amendments adopted. This bill was also discussed by the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection. On behalf of the Minister, I thank the members of the Committee and the subcommittee for their constructive approach during the discussion of this press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as the House Press 346/1 and I will ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Patrik Nacher, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee, and that any amendments may be justified. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As has been said, the Electronic Communications Act deals with a contribution of CZK 200 today and changes the basic principle to which the contribution will be paid and what it needs to be paid. That means, today it applies to everyone who has a multiple of 2.13 life minima, newly it would be those who have a living allowance. So the basic thing is that it was previously written as a recommendation or a credit card, I don't know how to describe it any other way, it's actually going to be automated today, so the administration is limited from it. On the one hand, the number of people entitled to it is reduced, on the other hand, the administrative burden is reduced. We discussed this on the Economic Committee on 19 January with I would like to say which amendments went through there, which did not pass, so I will sign up for them here. And then there are some amendments, where we are signed by three, with my colleagues, and now the question is whether or not colleagues will sign up to it. So - and there I mean Olga Richterová and Michal Zuna - if Michal Zuna could keep an eye out so we know where we stand. The Economic Committee recommended three amendments, which you will find under number 1760, which is an amendment that I have read there, but it is from the Ministry of Industry's workshop and basically some technical clarification, as well as the amendment that you will find under number 1761, which I also read in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and the Czech Republic, and it concerns the fight against malicious calls to the emergency line, where some things are tightened on the basis of the experience we have so far, it has also passed, and press 1772, which - once again my amendment after agreement with the Ministry of Economics - basically extends to consumers what is to be in the operator's bill, or it is for the consumer's measure, what types of services are supposed to be there, when there will be an expiration and so on. What did not pass, and then I will apply extra to it, is Amendment 1758, also mine, which increases the amount from CZK 200 to CZK 300. I justified it by the fact that we have some 15 years of 200 kroner contribution here, it hasn't changed all the time, and I think it would be worth taking into account here in 15 years of inflation, which I don't think will even cover from the 200, 300 kroner, especially since we've narrowed down the group of people who are entitled to the contribution. And now the most complicated thing will come, and that is an amendment dealing with the situation that is to be dealt with by the Czech Television, which means extending the items that should be dealt with by the Czech Television. We called it - actually what you have in your invoice with a mobile operator to deal with the Czech Television, because today it is that part of it is solved by the Czech Television, part of it is solved by the courts. That's 1854. I will then apply to this and I will tell you the items that would be newly included, items that would not have been newly included, including some disputes by the consumer. [[13.10 hours]] This is the last changeling, which is under number 1876, if we apply to it together, I am already there with Olga Richterová and Michal Zuna, who is expanding it, and we are likely to sign up for that in the debate or not. It is really about simplifying it for consumers, so that they know what disputes arise from their relationship with the operator, they can deal with the ČTÚ. That's what I think is pretty crucial. In this spirit, negotiations were held on the Economic Committee, which then authorised me to present this report on the results of the negotiations at the Chamber of Deputies meeting. So much for the rapporteur's report. Thank you for getting to that. However, I would like to remind you here that at the beginning of this proposal was proposed in the 90s, so thank God I organized signatures so it wouldn't be in the 90s, because in the end it turns out that there are a number of amendments. Now I see my colleague Havránek - I forgot another amendment which will be, which does not directly concern the material, concerns something related, but there is more or less a consensus on that. In other words, we have some six, seven amendments that improve it, refine it, correct errors, supplement things there, so I think the 90 was a mistake at the beginning. It would be quite good for you to tell the Minister of Industry, so that he may at least acknowledge it here in private. I thank you and then apply to those amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next time I will ask you to address your colleagues through the President. Anyway, thank you for your news report. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Lochman is the first to report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As a member of the Economic Committee and Vice-Chairman of the ICT Sub-Committee, I also dealt with this law, this amendment, and I consider that it should devote more space and take into account digital broadcasting here. That is why I have also prepared an amendment, which I would like to justify, and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Finally, this amendment to Act No. 196/2009 Coll. is to enable the transformation of cover radio licenses into transformational and subsequently consolidation, allowing multiple licences of one radio operator under which the operator transmits one, and thus an identical programme defined by the name of the programme, and the basic parameter of the transmission into one licence which will have the status of the transformation licence. So what will be the result? The result should be one licence with its own parameters of the transformation license. The aim of this amendment is therefore to enable the operation of a sufficient number of programmes by one operator and to enable, in addition to the operation of new programmes, the involvement of the existing analogue network. In other words, if I were to say this very simply, we now have part of the analogue broadcast and we want all listeners to have their favorite programs in digital broadcasting and to be able to use them. That's basically what it's about. That's how I'd comment. The whole amendment is uploaded, you can see a partial agreement with my colleague here. I was also based on the original text from the Ministry of Culture, RTV and also from the Association of Private Broadcasting Providers. So much for this amendment, to which I will therefore sign up in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u7	Yes, thank you. Next in line is Mr Novák. Before arriving at the speaker's counter, I will make two apologies: Mr Brázdil Milan has been apologizing since 12.30 for work reasons, Mr Síla has also apologized since 13.30 for work reasons. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I have three amendments to this bill, which I will now introduce to you. Two proposals relate to the tariff contribution, they are actually two variants, and the third concerns the digital radio. As regards the tariff contribution, as I have already said, I am presenting two options for amendments that respond to the Government's proposal for a solution to the European Code. This Code requires regulators, other competent authorities and others to promote the interests of citizens by ensuring the connectivity and wide availability and use of networks with very high capacity, and also by addressing the needs of certain social groups, in particular end-users with disabilities, older end-users or end-users with special social needs, for example with regard to price availability and equivalent access for end-users with disabilities. Now, why did I introduce it to you in such detail, what's the social tariff? This is because you can imagine who really needs this connection today, who needs financial assistance with connection to the information network, whether it's the Internet, or whether it's the use of a data box. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In fact, 85 of that code can be ensured by Member States to ensure that consumers with low incomes or with special social needs are supported or may require operators to offer such consumers rates or packages. And we actually have a set-up now, like a preferential rate, from which a certain amount of money is forgiven, which is approved by law. In the Czech Republic, this purpose is fulfilled by the Institute of Special Prices, when the Czech Telecommunications Office is the one who is responsible for the social tariff, which is managed by the Czech Telecommunications Office - it does not exactly go into my head - and the Czech Telecommunications Office imposes on selected entrepreneurs in electronic communications the obligation of so-called special prices to persons with special social needs. As far as the current text is concerned, it is a person whose deductible income over the previous calendar quarter is less than 2,15 times the minimum of living for individuals or for a person living in the same household with other persons, and the sum of his deductible income is less than 2,15 times the minimum of living in that household. From my point of view, the design is quite complex and then its setting will cost a lot of government effort as such. The person who has been awarded the special price is obliged to inform the entrepreneur, that is, to go to the operator personally to whom the obligation was imposed, and to inform him of any experience affecting the conditions for granting the special price, no later than 30 days from the moment she learned about it. So he goes to the Labor Office, there gets some confirmation, with the confirmation he has to come to the operator within 30 days, and the operator actually provides a social tariff on the basis of the regulation itself, whose compliance is controlled by the Czech Telecommunications Office. The government sets out by regulation the documents that people prove themselves, which means that the person gets confirmation from the Labour Office, which means that it's an extra job for the Labor Office worker, which I can't imagine in this situation when they can't handle the work they have anymore. The proposed amendment to the Act regulates the circle of persons who are entitled to special prices, but it does not really address the fragmentation of the current situation and the process itself. The market review, the control of the right to a special price is actually completely illogical right now on the shoulders of the Czech Telecommunications Authority and the entrepreneurs concerned. If there is a social network that can target help for people with special needs through the blueprints of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and at the same time the Office of Labour, then why not use it? [[13.20 hours]] The right to an additional payment for the use of electronic communications services will be amended by Section 37a. They will be entitled to the same groups of persons. The amount of the supplement is determined directly by the law. In my first proposal, it remains in the amount of CZK 200, as proposed in the presentation. The claim shall be enforced by a person with special social needs to his provider. The implementing legislation sets out the documents and requirements of the lists, because entrepreneurs - we can call them mobile operators who provide the discount - must keep lists that have the proper requirements according to government regulations. These lists are submitted to the Czech Telecommunications Authority. He is responsible for their control and for the right of payment to the people listed in this list - simply completely, completely wrong. Therefore, the first amendment, which has the number 1828 and which I will then apply to, proposes an adjustment and transfer of the institute of special prizes under the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, while maintaining the above-given discount and the circle of entitled persons. Simply, if you can imagine, a data cube will be created, on the basis of the data cube there will be information on whether or not the particular person is entitled to the social tariff. He's not getting any paper. This person comes to the operator, the operator based on a simple query into this system, to which the answer is yes - no, gets information whether the applicant is entitled to the benefit or not. Subsequently, another list will be generated from this database and we will have a clear and simple overview without the intervention of any other people and some registration of other lists, hence a simple check. In the second amendment, which I tabled under number 1850, I am already proposing a change of parameters, because I really believe that these parameters need to be changed. However, first of all, I present the two options precisely because I believe that it is necessary to change and make the system more effective. So the second amendment contains the same technique, the same process with the change that entitlement to the tariff discount will be granted to persons - and here is the change - who receive the housing allowance. Therefore, anyone who is entitled to a housing allowance today should also be entitled to a tariff allowance, which I realise, of course, is a much larger number of citizens. And then I'm increasing the amount from 200 to 300 crowns. I understand the objection that the second proposal touches a much larger population and will certainly cost much more money. It is, however, necessary to take into account the fact that if a citizen does not have sufficient means of living and the state is contributing to housing, we cannot assume that this person on a dose will have enough resources for electronic communication. At a time when we want citizens to communicate with the state electronically as much as possible, because all of us here know very well that electronic communication is saving state money, so we should allow those citizens and, of course, allow the state to save. Since the Czech Telecommunications Authority has currently imposed an obligation to provide special prices to four operators by 31 December 2025, I propose that the amendment postpone the effectiveness of these changes, from 1 January 2026, precisely so that the state administration can prepare enough for this change. I think that almost three years to create a data cube, on the basis of which the state could communicate effectively, is sufficient space. The losses arising from the provision of surcharges for the use of electronic communications services today are borne by the State through the Ministry and for the calculation of loss the Czech Telecommunications Authority provides synergies again under the Telecommunications Communications Act, and this office would have simple clear information on the basis of the cube and could work effectively. So I would be very happy if at least the process, the change in the process, you will support it, and you will be in favour of my amendment, ideally for the other one, which also regulates the circle of people, because, as I say, if a person receives a housing benefit, I think he should definitely also be entitled to an e-communication benefit. The last, third amendment concerns digital communication, the so-called DAB+. In 2016 to 2021, when the Ministry of Culture worked as an advisory coordinating body for the evaluation of procedures and preparation of further decisions in the field of digitalisation of radio broadcasting, at the end of its activities the Ministry of Culture was presented to the government an evaluation of digital broadcasting. You can find the evaluation under resolution 1156. This evaluation stated that it was Český rozhlas, and within the framework of the DAB+ broadcasting was ensured by the adoption of a law which also approved the amendment to the Czech Radio Act. It is with effect from 1 January 2022 that it has ordered the Czech Telecommunications Authority to reserve radio frequencies for the Czech Radio for the operation of a dedicated public multiplex of digital radio broadcasting. Here's the rock of injury that is today, because we have restrictions on the number of licenses, and here I propose that we release that restriction. On this topic was also held at the Czech Telecommunications Office meeting, which was also attended by representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Culture, as well as the Council for Radio and Television Broadcasting. On the one hand, a fundamental comment has been made by the private broadcasters and the Ministry of Culture has tried, but unfortunately, it has finally abandoned the intention to present the change, which is why I am now presenting the change. It's a technical change, and I'm asking for her support again, I'll deliver the number in a moment. And for Mr. Speaker, the number of the House press.... An amendment that's like the House press number... right away it's gonna be... [[From the rapporteur's table: No, an amendment.]] 1811. Of course, he would have heard when I applied to the proposals. As the last item in this speech, I have one more proposal, and that is the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I would have requested to vote in the event that none of the amendments to the tariff which I am proposing have been approved. When I studied the proposal submitted by the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, I really realized how rich this country is, and it is incredibly rich when it can afford such inefficient waste. [[13.30 hours]] When we look at the amendment dealing with special prices, which is basically nothing more than a levy for the necessary groups of users of telecommunications services - I say again, the levy - and we say that this dose is actually to be regulated and addressed by the Czech Telecommunications Authority, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. For me, it's just procedurally wrong, even in the context of responsibilities. Why is this contribution not paid directly by the Labour Office or other organisations under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? So given the process that is being proposed here and the process that can be passed, I propose a resolution, and the resolution reads: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies [[I.]] asks the Government to submit an amendment to Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications and amending certain related laws, the Electronic Communications Act, as amended, with the aim of: 1. First, adjust the powers of decision-making of participating disputes pursuant to Section 129 of the Electronic Communications Act so that the Czech Telecommunications Authority will also decide in future the disputes concerning other items included in the invoice for electronic communications services, such as payment of modem or phone, third party services as donor SMS or payments for public transport or parking, 2. adjust competences in the provision of so-called special prices under the Electronic Communications Act so that these special prices are incorporated into the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs; II. Calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber of Deputies the above amendment to the Electronic Communications Act during this parliamentary term." So much for my amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u9	Thank you, and this is what we can do for Mr Michal Zuna's contribution. Mr. Jiří Havránek will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Allow me to comment on two amendments. These are amendments which are alternative, it is 1854 and 1876. As the rapporteur mentioned here at the outset, whom I listened carefully to, these are amendments which resolve or define private disputes between a person performing telecommunications services and a participant in a contract, i.e. a consumer. Today's situation is that part of any disputes is solved by the Czech Telecommunications Office, here it is talkable and data services. and the other part is dealt with by the general courts. These are the services that follow up on the provision of the service. And here is the most important thing that still needs to be discussed in detail, and that is, to what extent and to whom it will actually relate to the solution itself, because in one amendment it is a solution for service providers, in the other proposal, in Amendment 1876, it addresses both those groups, which means both the provider and the consumer. However, what is also important from my point of view is also the scope so that the benefits which these amendments may bring for both providers and consumers, i.e. saving time, administration, but especially finance, because, of course, the two litigations are more financially demanding in their outcome, even in some of the consequences resulting therefrom, so that the scope of the accompanying services, the fulfilment of services that are in connection with the provision of services, are as extensive and as extensive as possible. This means that amendments, as they are now prepared, address, for example, services such as installation of a device, installation of a connection, exchange of a SIM card, sale or rental of hardware, whether it is a set top box, telephone, modem or something else. However, what they do not cover at the moment are services in third-party quotation marks, whether they are premium text messages, demesses, payment transactions via m-payment, various purchases of melodies or some logos and so on. For this reason, it is quite appropriate to discuss this in detail, whether on the ground of the Sub-Committee on Consumer Protection or on some other round tables. I believe that with my colleagues Patrik Nacher and Olga Richterová here we will still work together on this, and we will find a way to make the outcome as pleasant as possible for consumers as possible, which means whether we would find some option to prepare with appropriate ministries, the Czech Technical Institute, possibly. an amendment that would address this completely, or whether we will go the way of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Jiří Havránek, and then Mr Nacher will be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, nice Friday afternoon. I would like to sign up, or first to justify two amendments. First, you will find under number 1860, this is the amendment that I propose with colleagues Michael Rataj, David Šimek, Jiří Slavík and Jakub Michálek. This amendment introduces a register of planned infrastructure constructions, in which the builders will enter basic data on planned infrastructure constructions financed entirely or partly by public funds. This registration will work on the basis of a digital technical map and it should be stressed from a procedural point of view that it does not contain any draft penalty for non-compliance with this obligation. Basically, as I say, it is directly linked to digital technical maps, so they are expected to run into some kind of efficiency and operation in the middle of next year. Of course, it will be necessary for this IT solution and for some additional time for the application, so with the effectiveness of me mentioned registration of the upcoming buildings is calculated in 2026. That is, therefore, the first amendment that I am proposing with other colleagues. The second amendment, which you will find in this House press in the system under number 1856, concerns the acceleration of the construction of base stations for mobile signal, which are financed under the National Recovery Plan. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for your attention and a nice weekend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u13	Thank you and now there is room for the rapporteur. Mr Patrik Nacher, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. This time I am acting as rapporteur, as a Member who will sign up for two amendments. On the microphone I therefore say that the amendments 1760, 1761, 1772 by passing through the Economic Committee are already part of the Economic Committee's proposal, so I have to sign up to two amendments - the one you will find under number 1758, as I said, an increase from CZK 200 to CZK 300. I have already basically communicated the reasons in my opening intelligence speech. The amount has not changed since the beginning of this contribution for the entire history. If you were wondering how much increase it would be, so if all the people with disabilities took advantage of it, it would be 25 million more a year, so I don't think it's the amount that would play an important role. If this were the case for low-income people, if a third of the beneficiaries were to use it, which is the upper limit of the assumption, the difference would be CZK 60 million. [[13.40 hours]] The second amendment, as we have already heard here, is under number 1854 and concerns participation disputes, which means that, in a simple way, everything that the person finds in the invoice should be dealt with by the Czech Television. He's already a colleague. Zuna actually read it here, that table, that what would be included there, such as TV archive, installation of devices, connections, activation fee, provision of discounts, surcharge for devices, exchange of SIM cards and the like, but what would not be there and what is a general consensus, what is not there at the moment, are premium donor texts. In other words, our debate is that we would like to include in this amendment - and now it is not there - all the things that the consumer intuitively perceives by paying it over his mobile phone, so the operator has some elementary co-responsibility for it. If I pay for text parking and it doesn't feel like it, then I get a parking ticket, there's a mistake somewhere in that signal. Of course, logically, we do not want to include third party services that have absolutely nothing to do with operators, such as purchases of interested parties. So, of course, it's just a payment channel or an intermediary, and we don't want to do that. So, unfortunately, at this point, it must be said that the amendments are not complete, not full. This means that Amendment 1854 addresses the local disputes and the scope of the ČTÚ so that there are as many cases as possible, there are no premium text messages, colleagues - and I signed them under it, under the amendment 1876 - where it is extended to include consumers, as my honourable colleague Zuna explained here. That means, and that's also read in the system, and then I'm going to apply for it with those numbers. So much for me with amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u15	Thank you. I will announce that Vice-President Jan Skopeček will vote with replacement card number 31. Will I look around to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Let me ask you, are you interested in the final words? It's not. [[Member Nacher off the microphone: I may just be a little bit.]] The little one said the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u16	Yes, thank you. Well, I can't forgive myself, I'm sorry, but I was counting, and at this point... My colleague Lochman has one amendment, do I remember that? [[He's staring into a diaper.]] One, that means, we have twelve amendments here, we need to say, twelve amendments, of which three have already been passed by the Economic Committee, so here we will have nine amendments that we will be talking about. So I just want to say that sometimes the speed is at the expense of quality, okay? I've been pointing that out before, before we started this press, you'll remember, look at the log. I think this 346 print is very important from different angles. As you can see, the amendments do not concern only the Czech Television and the position of the consumer and the contribution of CZK 200. The twelve amendments speak for all that needs to be done, those things that are not absolutely necessary, do not pass through paragraph 90. So much for the rapporteur's comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u17	Thank you, and I am now opening the debate in detail. Let me remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. And now, please, Mr Ondřej Lochman is the first to be signed in, Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As the honourable colleague Nacher has already said, I have only one amendment. You have spoken of quantity - it is good to have one, but at the most two, as I say, in any event I am applying to the amendment registered under number 1849, which I have already justified in the general debate, and this is the end of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u19	Thank you. Now, Mr Marek Novák, Mr Michal Zuna will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I hereby refer to the three amendments that I justified in the general debate, and these proposals are registered under the numbers 1811, 1828 and 1850. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Michal Zuna is now in order, Mr Jiří Havránek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u22	Thank you again for the floor. I hereby submit to Amendment 1876. It is Olga Richterová's amendment, Patrik Nacher's and mine. I have already justified this amendment in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u23	Thank you very much. Now, then, Mr Jiří Havránek and Mr Patrik Nacher as the last Member after. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u24	I, too, will apply briefly to the House documents 1860 and 1856. I have already justified these two amendments. And to Mr Nacher through Madam President, I will take your message to Minister Síkel. Are you that happy?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u25	Thank you. And now, Mr Patrik Nacher is the last to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u26	Thank you. I am reporting - I have already justified this - to the amendments you will find under 1758 and 1854.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u27	Thank you. Mr. Marek Novák is still reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u28	Yes, thank you for the floor, and thank you also for our legislation, which is right for us to do everything we have to do, and I am also applying to the accompanying resolution that I have read in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-005-004.u29	Thank you, too. This concludes the detailed debate. I ask for order - there is no interest in final words. And in the absence of any voting proposals, I am ending the second reading of this proposal and thanking both the rapporteur and the Minister. Opening point number
