ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-009-100.u1	100. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Consent Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, adopted in Geneva on 17 June 2022 /German press 398 - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we agree with this government proposal at first reading. Under the authority of the Government, this press is to be presented by the Minister of the Environment, but there has been a change of the petitioner. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-009-100.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present the Government's proposal to ratify the amendment to Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Consent Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade. The Czech Republic has been a Contracting Party to this Convention since 24 February 2004. The tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Rotterdam Convention, held in Geneva in June 2022, adopted a decision on the inclusion of two of the following hazardous chemicals in Annex III to the Convention. These industrial chemicals are: decabromodiphenyl ether and perfluorooctane acid, its salts and related compounds. The inclusion of these substances in Annex III will be subject to a prior consent procedure whereby all Contracting Parties decide whether or under what conditions they agree to import the substance into their country. The inclusion of these two hazardous chemicals in Annex III to the Convention is in line with the position of the European Union given by the Council decision supported by the Czech Republic. This increases the total number of chemicals listed in Annex III to 54. The inclusion of substances will not have a practical impact on the Czech Republic and the changes involved are rather administrative in nature. The amendments adopted to Annex III will help to improve environmental and human health protection, so it is important that the Czech Republic accepts the amendments to Annex III. The Convention is a treaty of the presidential category. In order for amendments to its Annex III to become part of the legal order of the Czech Republic, this requires the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and subsequent ratification by the President of the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-009-100.u3	Thank you, Minister. As Mr Michal Ratiborský, who is to be rapporteur for first reading, apologizes from the meeting today, I must first have the rapporteur's amendment voted. There is a proposal for Mr Ratiborsky to speak as rapporteur, Mr Jiří Strýček. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with the rapporteur's change? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 120, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 93, against no one. We have changed the rapporteur for this press. I will ask Mr Jiří Strýček to speak as rapporteur for this press, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-009-100.u4	Once again, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read the report on the amendment of Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention, which is currently being discussed at first reading. Basically, just to make clear what the Rotterdam Convention entails. It is a convention on the prior consent procedure for certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in international trade, which was negotiated on 10 September 1998 and entered into force globally for the Czech Republic on 24 February 2004. It currently has 165 Contracting Parties, including the EU and all Member States of the European Union. The Convention, through the exchange of information, promotes cooperation in the international transport of hazardous chemicals with a view to protecting human health and the environment. At the same time, it contributes to the use of hazardous chemicals in an environmentally sound manner. At the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention in June 2022, decisions were taken to include decabromodiphenyl ether and perfluorooctane acid, its salts and compounds related to PFOA, in the Annex to Convention III, as a result of which the so-called prior consent procedure applies to these chemicals, namely the information constant under that Convention. Therefore, on the basis of this procedure, all Contracting Parties will provide for a so-called import decision, permanent or provisional, to the newly classified substance, whether or not they agree to import the substance into their country. The list of hazardous substances of Annex III includes industrial chemicals and pesticides whose use is prohibited or significantly restricted in a number of countries. With each substance newly included in the list, the so-called Decision Guidelines, the Human Health Information Document and the Risks associated with its use are adopted. The documents help the Contracting Parties to assess their ability to cope with the risks posed by the use of the substance and, on the basis of that assessment, to take measures to import it and to make informed decisions. As has already been said here, the Government has proposed to the House to discuss the international treaty so that the House can agree with it at first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The reasoning states that the inclusion of the above chemicals in Annex III to the Convention will have no impact on the state budget, public administration or the corporate sphere beyond what the legislation of the European Union and the Czech Republic provides. On this basis, of course, I believe, in view of the technical nature of the submitted press, that we will support the approval of this amendment to the Annex at first reading under Section 90. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-009-100.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. I said, who's applying? I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask, do the Minister or the rapporteur want final words? It's not like that. Since no objection has been raised, we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. [[11.50 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 398 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 121, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 101, against one. I'm stating that we have approved this procedure. So I am initiating a detailed debate and asking who is reporting for a detailed debate? I do not see an application for a detailed debate, in which case I am ending a detailed debate. Do I also ask the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur? You're not interested. We will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the amendments to Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Consent Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, adopted in Geneva on 17 June 2022'. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 122, 139 Members and Members, for 103, against none. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. That's the end of his hearing. I'm opening another point.
