ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second meeting on the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all with this. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with your ID cards, or I would like to know which one of you is asking for a replacement card. So I just checked you out, and we can log in. I hereby state that the following Members have requested to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Mr Ondřej Babka all day due to foreign travel, Mr Oldřich Černý until 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Tomáš Dubský all day for work Žáček, Mr Fridrich all Sládeček for health reasons, Mr Heller all day for family Vondrák, Mr Zborovský also all day for work reasons, Mr Karel Krejza all day for family reasons, Mr Kučera from 11 to 14 for work reasons, Mrs Jarmila Levko all day for health Špičák, Mr Petr Liška all day for work reasons, Mrs Mádlová from 12.30 to 15 for work reasons, Mr Metnar all day for health reasons, Mrs Němečková all day for family reasons, Mrs Ochodnická from 9.30 to 14 for work reasons, Mr Richter from 9.40 for reasons of work, Mr Sladek, for the whole day of session, Mr. Furthermore, members of the Government: Minister Balaš for health reasons throughout the day, Minister Bek for the whole working day, Minister Jurečka for the whole day for family reasons, Minister Síkela for personal reasons and Minister Šalomoun for 12 hours for work reasons. We will begin today's negotiations with the points firmly placed, from the third reading block, in the following order: number 89, House press 312, on association in political parties and in political movements; item 87, House press 249, on public procurement; item 86, House press 238, investment companies and investment funds; item 85, House press 48, is a civil and judicial order. And then we'll continue with the points from the law block... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, please, if we can keep it down. If there's anything we need to do, please keep it out of this O.R. Once again, I beg you politely that we... Thank you. Next, we will continue the points from the Code block - first reading according to the voting order. I will no longer read the whole point, only to say that it is item number 13, House printing 371; point 14, House printing 372; point 5, House printing 350; point 9, House printing 366; point 8, House printing 362; point 6, House printing 360, and point 7, House printing 361. And, if necessary, we'll continue with the other points under the approved programme. Now I'm giving room for proposals for the 52nd meeting. I'm just saying, if we're gonna ask for a word, it's until 9:30. I have several applications here, and with priority rights, President Excellent came forward first. And once again, I beg you, colleagues... colleagues, colleagues, once again, I ask you to keep your voice down, so that we all hear that the President has room and peace to say what he needs. One more time, please... You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Dear Colleagues. Since there were no items discussed yesterday from the second reading block, namely the government bill for the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer, the House press 288, and the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, House press 346, these prints would fall out of the negotiations of this week, so I would like to ask, under the agreement of the coalition MPs, to include this block of second reading, these two prints that I mentioned, i.e. printing 288 and printing 346, in this order firmly as a block before the block of first reading. And that would be not only for today, but for the rest of the week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please note 288 and 346. And I'm just recapitulating, in front of the block of first reading today, isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? [[Voice off microphone: No, all week.]] All week, all week. Yes, thank you, I have a record. Another of the applicants is Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. Mr Kamal Farhan, Mr Radek Vondráček, and then Mr Vondráček came forward. Thank you. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u4	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, esteemed colleagues. I come before you with a request to place a new point, which I consider very important, and its name is Information of the Government on the sale of state property. I was initiated by the publication of the intention to sell the castle Štiřín, which falls under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u5	I will ask once again, honourable Members, to keep your voice down, if necessary, in front of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u6	I believe that this is the first of the sales that the government is likely to make. There's a lucrative property like this parked under every ministry. And I believe that the Chamber of Deputies is the place where it is to be informed transparently about these matters. If I return to the castle Štiřín, it is a very valuable property in the territory of the Central Bohemia Region, which the government has used very intensively for various international meetings and in which the government has invested a considerable amount of money in the past. According to information circulating on social networks, it appears that the person who privatizes this property is already chosen. I am therefore convinced that it is essential for the government here to inform the Chamber of Deputies and citizens of this Republic of how it intends to sell the necessary state property from its point of view. At this point, I ask you to include this point as the first point in today's negotiations, or as the next point after the fixed points in today's negotiations, or as the first point in Friday's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u7	Madam, just to clarify, the last one was the first point on Friday and before - please again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u8	Mr. Vice-President, it's written on your application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u9	Here we go, great. I got it right here. Thank you, I'll write it down. I will ask another one of the applicants, and this is Mr Kamal Farhan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we heard here yesterday from the Minister of Health....
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u11	I'd like some peace in the room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u12	What we heard yesterday from the Minister of Health is a mess of confusion. What he's doing at the Department of Health is a big mess. I'm not afraid to say it's not the Ministry of Health, it's the Ministry of Chaos. What the Minister said here yesterday led me to believe that we need to include - and therefore I will suggest - a new point in today's negotiations, which I called the uncertainty in the provision of medicines to the Czech Republic by the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. To briefly justify why I suggest this, I would like to quote from his speech: "And by dealing directly with manufacturers since mid-December, we have managed to import a number of medicines that are free on the market. A typical example is Nurofen, when we imported in total beyond what was made for the Czech Republic, 400 packages of Nurofen, 400,000, 400,000 packages." The following follows: "We brought an extra half a million packages of Nurofen. " And then I want to ask here how it is possible that in his speech he once said that he imported 400,000, once 500,000. This indicates that they're throwing hundreds of thousands here, hundreds of thousands of packing there, and we're not getting any exact and specific information. He further stated: "We have delivered several hundred thousand packages of different types of antibiotics, especially penicillin series. " And I'm asking what it means, a few hundred thousand. Does that mean 200,000, 500,000, 800,000? It's just a mess that the Minister should explain. He should also explain when he arranged these drugs and when he ordered them. In short, allow me to return to his speech in the sense that he said that he has been dealing with producers since mid-December. I suppose his press department at the Ministry of Health works, there is not only one person, and he should warn the minister that in November, for example, there was a lack of medicine not only in our Republic, but also elsewhere. If anyone noticed this in November, the Minister of Health did not have to start looking for scarce drugs in mid-December. I don't understand. I believe the Minister must be keeping a record of this. As we learned yesterday, the Minister records phone calls with his colleagues. Let me quote: "I like to let you go, I have it on tape, it needs to be protected, because then there are all kinds of untruths that make you look like someone who does things that are wrong. " When the Minister records his interviews, his phone calls with his colleagues, I believe that he will not find it difficult for him to find a record of the negotiations that he has dealt with the manufacturers when he ordered these drugs and to tell the House how many he has imported them because there are contradictions in hundreds of thousands of packages in his performance. But he hasn't told us anyone when he brought them in, where the drugs are. I just don't understand. If that's clear to you, all you have to do is say, "I had a meeting then and then, I have a record of it, and it was imported then and then in such a number. There's nothing complicated about that. Based on these contradictions in the import of medicines into the Czech Republic, I would like to place this point as the last point of today's negotiations and I called it the Discernment in the provision of medicines to the Czech Republic by the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, another duly registered member and this is Mr Radek Vondráček. Please prepare Mr Patrik Nacher. The next will be Mr. Robert králíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, guess why I'm standing here like I do every day. My colleagues and I regularly perform, intersect ministers, intersect the Prime Minister, try to constantly draw attention to the issue of the threat to freedom of speech in the Czech Republic in connection with the non-discriminatory approach of the Government of the Czech Republic in the fight against misinformation. My point, which I propose today, because yesterday was not approved by another, is therefore called Threatening freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. Of course, none of us are happy about this, and we wonder what is behind it, that there is such a strong objection not to put such a point on the agenda and avoid these issues under any possible circumstances. [[Include?]] I thought maybe it wasn't just disgust anymore, it was intent. New things are constantly happening in this matter. I think if you look back at my performance, you'll find that I haven't repeated myself once. Now I should like to draw attention to the fact that it has become apparent that a contract was to be concluded at the Office of the Government with a journalist from the propaganda section of Forum 24 up to half a million crowns. So I said, we're still asking about an action plan that says it's going to be paid to the related media up to CZK 100 million, and so I'm thinking, and isn't this happening right now? And only after this has been brought to the attention of another news server, from another side, from another side of the spectrum of opinion, so this journalist has abandoned his intention and this contract has not been concluded. But what if it was? I think that these presidential elections have exposed the media front and how the so-called independent media operates in our country, and I think that Forum 24 is the ultimate highlight of this disinformation scene for me squared. And yet someone had the idea at the Office of the Government to conclude a lucrative contract with a journalist, and thus, of course, to strengthen his independence. That's the only way I can explain it. This is one event that has occurred, which we want to talk about at a special point that I propose today, and I propose that it be placed first. If he is not included today, I suggest that he be placed as the first item on Friday so that you can prepare for him and answer our questions. [[9.20 hours]] I have another interesting article here: Censorship is unclear and the courts are silent. Without much media attention, the Supreme Administrative Court has already rejected the second submission from the website owners that were shut down at the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine. These courts may have acted formally correctly, but they concluded that the CZ.NIC association was responsible for everything, which turned off its will, that there was perhaps only some non-binding recommendation of the Government of the Czech Republic. But I remember the Prime Minister's interview when he said how clever the government was and issued or sent a challenge. I've never seen her, I don't really know what the government of the Czech Republic decided at the time, and on the basis of which a number of information sites were shut down, but not only those faulty articles, but actually the whole website, which, of course, has a much larger scope than just a few controversial articles. This is all a way that is in direct conflict with, for example, the caselaw of the European Court and the approach to how free information is to be treated. When I add to this the action plan and the millions to be dedicated to nonprofits, the millions to be dedicated to journalists, when I add that they are to be formed on all the ministries of the relevant trade unions, and the one at the Ministry of the Interior is already very active and very fruitful, when I add the individual interviews to it and when I add that even journalists who are interested in it under the law of free access to information, the Office of the Government does not provide any information that it is secret, I think that we as legislators have the right to the information, and the argument against us that it is something secret, yet cannot succeed. We have the right to talk about this and realize that we are talking about the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, we are not talking about a secondary issue here. I therefore once again call on you to include this point within my five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u15	Thank you for keeping time. So it's my first point today, or my first point on Friday. I will ask another and this is Mr Patrik Nacher, then Mr králíček and Mr Brož. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will have two points. I'm not saying I'm gonna have it for two or five minutes, but should I say it behind me, or should I apply again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u17	You can say them behind you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u18	The first is actually a proposal to change the program so that the two second readings, i.e. printing 288 and 346, the amendment to the Workers' Protection Act, and then the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, I would suggest that we reschedule them so that they begin today, so that it is before the three third readings. This is because, for example, the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, which is at second reading, where I am the rapporteur who was originally proposed by the government in the 90s, so that we agree here on a shortening of deadlines. Now there is, if I count correctly, some seven amendments, and it would really be good for us to discuss this because the government itself wanted to shorten the deadlines. Today is February 8th, which means that today we are basically in those deadlines without shortening the deadlines at this rate. Looking at the program today, the third reading, I'm afraid it won't come to that again. That means I'm suggesting we put both of those second readings first and second. That means a slightly different proposal than what Marek was saying earlier, Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u19	Thank you, I'll cut you off, then of course I'll give you extra time. I understand that this is actually a counterproposal for President Excellent's proposal, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u20	Well, we can take it that way, yes, I would suggest it. I didn't know that Marek the Výborný with this proposal would come up with the idea of putting it before the first reading. I'm gonna put it in front of the third reading today because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u21	I understand. This means that I will begin, put it as a counter-proposal, and then vote on Mr Excellent's proposal. So now you have another space, I'll give you the extra half minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u22	Thank you, so that was the first suggestion. As far as I know, all interested parties who wanted to read the amendments at second reading have already done so. You've all reported it to me and everything. And now I have the second proposal, which I will briefly justify. It's over and over again, now I'm gonna use the Home Secretary here. It is the Information of the Government on its fight against disinformation and the threat of the incoming censorship. I changed it a little bit so it wouldn't be called the same thing I called it yesterday so you wouldn't protest it, but the content is still the same. It's about the fact that, as opposition, we legitimately want to know what's going on at the Ministry of the Interior in that KRIT group, what's going on in relation to misinformation and the fight against them, what are the plans? No one's discussing this with us. As shown in the public space, there is information that you yourself can call disinformation that selected media or selected non-profit organizations are to be supported. I quoted here yesterday - I am not going to do it again - that some government ministers share or retweet fake profiles, so they themselves participate in spreading disinformation, so I wonder how consistently the government looks at these things and these activities. If it isn't so that only the misinformation that goes as unpleasant information against the government will be haunted, but those that are in its favor will not be dealt with. For the Home Secretary, because he wasn't here yesterday, it was sharing from Minister Ivan Bartoš, who shared false profiles to confirm his point of view. So I don't think there's anything secret about it. If there is really to be a fight against real misinformation - and I think everyone here will support it - then we need to talk about these things. It is necessary to know how you will do so, if you are really going to change the law, because I have read from the government clerk that it is necessary to change the law, because today's sections do not think about it. Those are all the important things that belong here in the Chamber of Deputies, because then we're gonna pour the baby out with the tub. You know we've been talking about misinformation around here. You know, I didn't like the fact that there was some list of misinformers in quotes on the Health Department website, and I was a coalition MP, so you can't say that I came here out of nowhere right now. So it was covid, the war in Ukraine, now it could be an energy crisis. There are always reasons to fight misinformation in quotes. So I'm going to ask you to put this point as an information point of the government. It's not gonna fit anymore, and I'm gonna go as a favor myself, putting it on Friday at a fixed time at 1:00 p.m. That means it's possible to prepare for it, and basically it won't block anything anymore. That means the point I called him, Mr. Vice-President, for a fixed hour on Friday, 1:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u23	Thank you. I'm just specifying that the point is called Government Information on the fight against misinformation and the threat of censorship. Thank you. President Schillerová is registered with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I was watching on Czech Television last night on Events, comments about where Minister Stanjura was. I'm glad I could at least see him on TV, if not in the Chamber of Deputies. Among other things - probably already speaking into everything - he answered the query of the moderator as to how it will be with parental contribution for mothers in the future, that perhaps he suggests that he decrease. He says, "No, no, no, that's bad information, not to lower it, but to shorten the period when mothers can draw it. You will remember that the last Chamber of Deputies, when our government was in power, raised it to CZK 300,000, but it would be good for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to explain to the Minister of Finance that this contribution is flexible today. Already today, Mom or Dad may decide to go to work sooner or later, and this does not affect the overall drawdown of the final amount. That means they can take it one time, they can take it for a period they set up, they can take it evenly. The point is, the money stays with them. [[9.30 hours]] So please, Mr. absent Secretary of Finance Stanjur, please don't confuse the public and tell the truth. You want to just take the money away from those mothers or fathers, that's all you care about. And your arguments that were made yesterday - scandalous for me - when you say that they will return to the labour market early and pay income tax and pay social insurance and health, so it will actually benefit not only on the expense side where they will be saved, but also on the revenue side. So those moms and possibly dads are not people who are raising a future generation to help the economy and the economy of this country, and they're going to raise another generation, but they're just taxpayers to you, so you can clearly see that. And maybe when you talk so much, yesterday too, even though we haven't learned much about pension reform, perhaps your colleagues from the government and your working teams, which you have never once invited us to as a opposition, in contrast to the talk that goes on in the media, see President Pekarová Adamová, are talking about it on the committees. I ask my colleagues: You're talking about pension reform on committees? They never, ever spoke on the Social Committee. So maybe they should tell you that the birth rate for us, if I have good numbers, is 1.8 child per mother, if I remember correctly, we'd need, like, 2.1. I remember she was about 1.7 under our government and she moved on. I believe that the parental contribution and other benefits that were being implemented helped. So please tell me what you're gonna do. We know that you only have the year 2023 for all the antisocial proposals you give us in the media one by one, 2023. So start talking to us kindly, start explaining things, whether we don't read one day or hear one day the Minister of Finance speaking this antisocial, very typical language for him, the next day we hear a representative of KDU-ČSL saying it's all different. It's the same with an extension of the retirement age, when once we hear 68 years, then we hear it's 40 minus for the years, then we hear it's for some other year - that's your communication? Is that the communication you promised? Unified, we'll agree on a five-wheeler. Stop making excuses. I think you guys should have had it ready by now, promising it before the election, how you're just gonna have it all set up, how you're just gonna make those cuts. I heard another number from the Minister of Finance yesterday, another number - 80 billion cuts, 100 billion was - here I see Vice-President Skopeček, he was talking about 100 billion, I think, if I'm not mistaken, then the Prime Minister spoke about 70 billion on the expense side in his New Year's speech, yesterday said Minister 50. But when the host asks him, that has to be settled in the coalition. You got nothing. You've got nothing, you're scaring people, you're just releasing balloons, you're creating insecurities, and no one really knows what he's on. So please man up, Minister of Finance, step forward. Please place a item škrt the Chamber of Deputies on the expenditure side of the proposal of the Government of Petr Fiala and finally start talking to us. Because I guarantee you that the ANO movement has 72 Members, and if you push such antisocial things, such antisocial things against people, and we're talking about people here, we're going to chain ourselves to the counter here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u25	Thank you, and I'd just like to know when to enlist, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, I'm sorry, so I got excited. I propose this as the first point of today's negotiations to be firmly placed, thank you, and with the title Scratch from the pen of Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u27	Thank you and the other one who is registered is Mr Robert králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u28	Good morning, everyone. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, or both Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I step forward and take advantage of this - and now I think without irony - that the Minister of the Interior is here, who I suspect is excused for tomorrow, so I have chosen this form before the intervention, because I believe that this point which I want to include is very important. I called that point "Czech Post" briefly. You may have noticed in the media that after seven months when the director - or former director - Knap - was called off, several invitations were issued for his successor, but unfortunately, unfortunately, not once did the position have been filled. That is why we learned last week that the deputy of the Czech Post has so far been entrusted with its management. However, yesterday, I learned from public sources that delivery companies were also released in some cities, and Czech Post has been struggling with long-term, long-term financial problems. And I believe that this company is relatively strategic for the Czech Republic, and therefore I would like to debate this point completely without any irony or otherwise. It's absolutely essential. I have tried to interpel the Minister, and now I do not mean it badly, unfortunately it did not get to the interview, and that is why I think it would be good for us to talk about this strategic enterprise here, about what concept or strategy the government has with it, so that, for example, what we are reading today, for example, about Štiřín Castle and Česká pošta was not in the package for sale to a pre-selected customer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u29	Thank you, and please, when are we going to be included?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u30	I would like to ask it either as the first point today or as the second point after lex Ukraine on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u31	I'm fine, thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Brož, then Mr Brázda will be prepared and then Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u32	Have a good day. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I did not see the Minister on that television yesterday, but the point I would like to propose as a new point of action is called Valorisation of the parental contribution in the shadow of dramatic inflation and I would like to propose it as the third point of today's negotiations. Maybe it's a good thing I didn't see it yesterday, because what I just heard from Mrs. Schillerová might sound a little different. But what's very important is to realize that we should be talking about this, and I designed this point months ago. I understand you didn't approve him, you basically don't approve of almost anything, but I took it that Minister Jurečka and the entire government would realize that this is an important thing. And what we're probably waiting for here is a signal that it's going to be taken, that moms want kids to go to work so they can pay taxes and raise incomes, and that point is that we're going to discuss this. What's more important to us? The parent who wants to raise the child and stay home with him for a while, or the fact that he's going into the trial, will he pay taxes so that the government can raise the revenue of the state budget and then do something with them? Let's talk about the priorities. [[9.40 hours]] You all know how dramatically rising prices have been, inflation has been growing all last year, and this year too, prices are constantly rising. I don't know if you guys go to the store, even though we go to the shops, obviously with our income, we don't have to see it that much. But people show me what it costs, what it cost a year ago, what it costs today, how much yogurt it costs. The amount of parental allowance is currently CZK 300,000. Our government, the government of Andrej Babiš, raised it from 200,000 to 300,000 crowns. It may seem like it was a significant leap, but of course, a lot has happened since then in the economy, a lot of things with inflation, with food expensive. Have you noticed in the media that retail sales for food sales have actually been the lowest since 2001? Why are the sales low? Why do you think people stopped buying food, why did they cut food consumption? Well, because they don't have the money. And let's say openly, except, of course, the elderly families with small children are one of the most vulnerable economic entities in this society. And let's say that the allowance at the moment, if the parent is home for three years, is about 8,000 a month. What can be done about 8,000 a month? Even if the family makes, say, 20, 25, 25,000 before leaving for parental leave, it's CZK 50,000, and suddenly their income will shrink to CZK 32,000. I'm giving this point to start talking about it. Let the government tell us their intentions. I noticed in the media that over time, long time ago, Minister Jurečka suggested an increase in parental contribution, but then somehow it fell apart, the government apparently didn't agree and that somehow it fell asleep. And now, on the contrary, we learn the other information that, on the contrary, this should be shortened, that it should be touched. Please approve of this point and let's talk about it. Let's talk about what is really a priority for the government and for our society and what we want to do. Retirement Valorization takes place every year, it's perfectly okay, this is how it's been set up in the past. My personal opinion is that we should also valorize the contribution, the parental contribution. So thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to approve this point, because I think that is a very important point. And the messages that parents and young children receive so far are very negative and very, very little positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u33	Thank you and specifying, it's like a third point today, please, okay? [[Yes.]] Well, thank you, and the next is Mr. Milan Brázdil. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u34	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your word. Before I present my proposal for a new point, let me thank you all. I served three paramedics on the weekend, and those people, the paramedics, really appreciate the light at the end of the tunnel that we voted for earlier retirement -- in short, they feel safe if the problem was, maybe when they reached that age and couldn't work, so they appreciate it, and I'm telling you, we've presented it, you've redesigned it and it works, thank you. And in this context, let me also present to you a proposal to include a new point, and that point is the Czech Health Rescue Service in relation to what has happened, what is happening now in Turkey, on the border with Syria, a natural disaster. Our republic - and you know it, I've said it many times - has Medical rescue ready, but it's organized in regional, 14 different ways, it's commanding de facto regions and, in case of something big, mass, the organization would just hang on. And I ask you to allow me only to vote for a point called Transformation or inclusion, the point is called Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic, to include it - this point - as a program of this 52nd meeting without a fixed classification. I would leave that up to you, coalition MPs, when Professor Válek tells you, yes, we'll put it in there somewhere, because he agrees. He's okay with it, we talked about it. This is not yet stated in the Government's legislative programme, better said, the ministries for this year. There's a law to at least allow the coordination of an air ambulance, the ten helicopters. So there's one, maybe the first point we'll approve here, and it's being presented by the Department of Health. So I beg you, I beg you, just to place that point, nowhere firmly, Mr President, nowhere firmly. And then you decide within the club, and the minister says to you, "Yeah, we'll discuss it." Because, for example, next year - and there is not much time left for us to do this - we can, after all, approve, nationalize or establish a state, one form of the Medical Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. It's not a simple problem. You know, in case of any problems, so that the county can work with another county, it's more or less based on some kind of volunteering. But if it's written in some form, in the law, that we already have one state-funded ambulance, I'd be happy to do that. It's nothing, it's an organizational matter, but it's de facto to those people who would need this in a mass crash, mass disaster, assistance across the country, so we can actually prepare it, and the ambulance will be as united as the firemen and the cops. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you once again for the paramedics, for the mountain and health services, and I would ask you to place this item indefinitely, just on the agenda of the meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I write here that it is without a firm classification, with the fact that if it were discussed afterwards, it would either be specified or as the last point of the 52nd meeting. Thank you. I ask another of the applicants, this is Mr Martin Kolovratník, and I ask that Mr Hubert Lang and Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová be prepared after him. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Have a good morning. Well, with my proposal, colleagues, I am actually experiencing such a little déjà vu because I will try to propose and ask you to include a new point, the very same one that I proposed here at one of our previous meetings on Tuesday 24 January, unfortunately unsuccessfully. And unfortunately, as time has shifted, actually, if I count correctly, by three weeks, the situation -- or two weeks exactly -- the situation is practically the same, maybe a little worse. I'll explain right away. The name of the point speaks for it all, I call it the Uncertain Budget of the Ministry of Transport and the threat of construction. And I can only repeat the arguments I made here on January 24th. We are clearly saying and explaining from last autumn that the discussion of both the state budget and the follow-up budget of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure sounds and may sound good, it is the announced 150, more than 150 billion crowns. And you know that in public statements, both I and now the President, Vice-President Karel Havlíček, have acknowledged that this government is following up on the high pace of construction of transport infrastructure, which we have set for you, but that the public, publicly declared figures have one huge catch and that the catch is called CZK 30.7 billion, i.e. roughly plus minus 20 percent of the total budget of the SFDI. Again, we patiently draw attention here to the huge problem that the Ministry of Transport, the resort, may have in front of us, and that is still an unsecured CZK 30.7 billion, which - when we talked about it at the first, second, third reading of the state budget and the SFDI budget - was also commented on in the official justification of the Ministry of Transport, so the exact parameters of the loan, loans from the European Investment Bank, or issued bonds from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, that the parameters will be specified as to what the conditions for which the State will borrow will look like. But you can see that we drew attention to this in October, November, December and late January, now we have half of February, and unfortunately still no conditions, no parameters of the loan, under which conditions the State, the Ministry of Finance, in turn the Ministry of Transport, should borrow more than 30 billion, we still don't know. According to the information available to us, the CEOs of the largest investor organisations, ŘSD, Railway Administration, were tasked, were instructed to negotiate and act in such a way that they had the full amount. For your idea, to be specific in this reasoning, the Railway Administration is 70.4 billion of uncertainty of 9.5 billion. With ŘSD, the situation is even worse, the total allocation for this year is 65.5 billion, but of that loan, the potential loan, the parameters of which we do not know to this day, is 21.1 of the 65.5 billion. So, folks, a third, more than a third of the total budget of the ŘSD for this year is still undiscovered at the moment. [[9.50 hours]] Two more numbers that I document and argue the need to discuss this point here and ask the finance and transport ministers for an explanation, let's say it's called "She Gives - Dal." As I said, Zbyněk Stanjura said that the structure and parameters of funding will be submitted to the government for approval, but he also criticised Mojmír Hampl, that it is actually a hidden debt, and the hidden debt is also shown in officially approved written documents, in Chapter 327 of the State Budget, the Ministry of Transport, we read on the line Grants for SFDI over CZK 92 billion, but against this SFDI on the revenue side counts with more than CZK 123 billion, namely the difference of over CZK 30 billion. I repeat, it's mid-February, we still don't know the parameters of this loan, and we're going to keep calling on the finance and transport ministers to explain this, to show how they want to proceed this year. So, Mr President, first of all, I am asking for the inclusion of a new item entitled The uncertain budget of the Ministry of Transport and the threat of construction, and please, if the ministers are ready, we can do it in half an hour, place this point first, firmly tomorrow at 11.00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u37	Thank you, I have a note. And I will ask another envoy - Mr Hubert Lang, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mrs Balaštíková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to join the meeting with a point I called Reorganization of the Police of the Czech Republic in the context of the migration crisis. I don't care what point it's going to be on, if it's going to be a free point, today or Friday, if it's going to be. Why would I want to talk about this point? I'm not sending any signals in the Morseův alphabet today, because apparently the signal wasn't received at the Office of the Government, and I'm going to speak normal language today so that other colleagues, especially from the right side of the spectrum, can understand me. Why did I call this point Reorganization of the Police of the Czech Republic in the context of the migration crisis? We had an interesting situation here, where since the autumn of last year a large Syrian migration group began to flow across the Czech-Slovak border and nothing happened at the beginning. We drew attention to this in the Minister's Security Committee, then certain measures were taken, and since that September last year the Czech Republic-Slovakia border control has been renewed. Given the lack of police officers, we have learned from the annual report that, for the first time in years, the number of police officers in the Czech Republic has fallen below 40,000, which is such a border where the current police president says that if the police officers are less than 40,000, plus 10,000 civil servants, we are not actually able to carry out enough security tasks within our country, and we still have the migration crisis. That means police officers have served on the Czech-Slovak border since that September, customs officers have served there and soldiers have served there. Those police officers, please, were not specialized officers, what I'm trying to do here, I've been loading it several times and I still don't get the hearing to just evaluate it and, possibly, we've already started to discuss it, and that's why I'm putting it here as a point of this meeting, so that we can reintegrate the foreign police service as a specialized unit with nationwide competence, just dedicated police officers who are going to deal with this migration crisis. Because if the Czech-Slovak border was attended by traffic police officers, criminal police services and investigations and other police forces, they were there, but in their nature the tasks were only secondary. It cost us a huge amount of money, estimated costs are approximately more than CZK 300 million for overtime work. Those cops just picked up - I'll tell you this by example: A policeman picks up traffic services from Karlovy Vary, sends himself on a business trip to the Czech-Slovak border, he goes to unknown terrain, he doesn't know where he is, in essence, he gets assigned a section of the border, he serves there one or two shifts and then, because there was no place for those people to stay, he goes back home. That means, there's gas costs, there's overtime costs, and so on. And then we can't be surprised that cops who have been in service for a long time, and if one year is better for them last in terms of salary or the last three years on average, can count these overtime hours and leave for us in civilian life. The fact that we picked up 1,800 new police officers, as the Minister says, that's nice, but the policeman, before he's able to perform the service in such a way that it's really worthwhile, so it's like three to five years after the police school, we've mentioned it here too. This means that I propose a new point in this meeting, which I called the Reorganization of the Police of the Czech Republic, the creation of a service of foreign and border police or foreign police as a nationwide unit in the context of the migration crisis, and I would therefore like it to be included on the agenda of today's meeting. Please, the migration isn't over. The Minister of the Interior missed a huge opportunity, we had a six-month presidency, we had some sort of evaluation, where we fought in the breasts, how we did it all. The migration crisis will continue in spring. The sea will calm down, start swimming again from Africa ships to Europe and so on, and we cannot deal with the migration crisis by sending there ad hoc, who has hands and legs. We have 500,000 people from Ukraine who will have to register visas for temporary protection, there will be a huge strain on their registration. Again, I can't imagine we could handle this. And in my experience, really, believe me, if we reinstate this department, it won't cost so much money and we'll have one thing sort of solved. We can put these people there, on the north and south Moravia, strengthen those forces there, we'll have uniform training, uniform training for these policemen, and we'll have a solution. We will not endanger the internal security of the state, even though the police President and the Home Secretary tell us that there was no internal threat to the security of the state - but logically, if the police officers served at the Czech-Slovak border for a quarter year, they were missing somewhere. If a transport officer from Karlovy Vary walked on the Czech-Slovak green state border, he could not carry out his activities at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u39	Mr. Ambassador, we have time, yes, thank you, thank you for keeping the time, and I will ask Mrs. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová. I will also read the apologies: Mr Brabec all day for health reasons, Mr Lacina from 9.45 for work reasons and Mr Rais from 13 to 14 for work reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, I thank my colleague Robert Králíček, who is trying to include the Czech Post point. At this point, I have learned here that the Minister of the Interior will not be at the interpelation tomorrow, so if that point fails, I will want it to be on Friday, and I assume that he will be here on the lex point of Ukraine V, because I would very much like to ask about the issues that affect regional assistance centres. My place of reference is in the field of health care. I was absent yesterday for medical reasons, so I watched the whole meeting, as they say, out of bed, and I have to say, Dr. Válek's health minister's performance really put me in a situation where I decided to go back to that drug shortage situation today. I must say that I listened to him very carefully yesterday, and the Minister said briefly here: The lack of medicine is not only in Europe, but he is not in America and Australia either. People buy drugs, that's why they're not. I'll put forward a change to the legislation. Do you know when I'll present it? Until the middle of this year. I will address the situation at European level. I would like to ask: Who has had the EU Presidency for six months now? Wasn't it the Czech Republic? Did you see any meeting that Minister Válek would have called on this issue when, in August and last year, we said in the middle of the year that there was a shortage of specific medicines? So I practically didn't learn anything from his speech, and it doesn't really give me any hope of when the drugs will be. If I give a contribution to Facebook or social media, I have a messed up Messenger where people write to me: not only are there no antibiotics, but there are no medications, such as eye drops, there are no drugs for children, all the time, always the same. And the minister keeps saying that everything is perfectly fine. [[10.00 hours]] I would also like to comment on the round table called by Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák and Dr. Mašek. Personally, although not a health worker, I went to see this round table, and I was really shocked that the Minister of Health, who constantly invites us here, wants to communicate with us, that he wants to deal with these things, did not come to this round table. He was making excuses here yesterday: I got an invitation, I didn't get an invitation, I confirmed, I didn't confirm. That he had a meeting with the Association of Regions - yes, the meeting was probably at the Ministry of Health, it was at 13:00, but the round table was at 12:00, which means the Minister of Health could have arrived at it. On this round table was also the President of the Czech Stomatological Chamber Roman Šmucler, who then went to the meeting at the Ministry of Health, so that the President of the Czech Stomatological Chamber could come to the round table and the Minister of Health did not have to and did not come to the round table. Even the head of the State Institute for Drug Control didn't show up, where it was presented to us that perhaps she was forbidden. Is this, please, even possible? Is it possible for the Minister of Health not even to send his deputy there? Doesn't the vice-president have enough political and professional skills? I'm really starting to doubt that this person is supposed to be the Minister of Health. I must say that when Mr Farhan, my colleague, spoke here today about chaos, I'm talking about absolute incompetence. And if the Minister of Health does not give us concrete steps and solutions to ensure that enough medicines are provided for citizens of the Czech Republic, he has nothing to do in his capacity. And, as you can see, he was telling beautiful stories here yesterday, but we didn't find out anything specific. So I would like to present a point called Specific Steps and Solutions to Providing Drugs for Citizens of the Czech Republic. I ask that this point be placed as the first item on Friday, and I assume that the Minister of Health will arrive and that he will tell us the specific steps. If not, get her out of office and hand it over to someone who will provide it for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u41	So concrete steps and solutions to providing drugs for citizens of the Czech Republic - first point on Friday. I will ask another duly signed up, and this is Mrs Balaštíková, then Mrs Hanzlíková and then Mr Robert Stržínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u42	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. [[Attention from the diaper that there is no minister.]] The Minister is here. [[Solomon in the bench of Vice-Presidents PS]] He's not visible, colleague. He's so inconspicuous, we missed him. So once again, colleagues, I would like to ask for a new point, and these are food prices. Now I would like to specialize in sugar, because even today our citizens will no longer sweeten the coffee that our god Karel Gott sang to us. And, of course, it's about chains and the Ministry of Agriculture isn't doing it. The Minister told us how he would control the price of fuel, how he would control overpriced prices in chains, but he probably does not. And for your information, the sugar production price is on average CZK 2022 19,19 per year, but when I looked at what chains are selling in January 2023 sugar, those who sell for 41.90 are the best. You see for yourself that this increase is huge, and it doesn't drop. Basically, they're all selling at some 39.90 Bata's Zlín Awards, and at least Tesco's got it in action is 34.90. So I'm sure I'd like to talk about the Department of Agriculture taking place. And so, as the Treasury is sucking money out of our citizens' wallets and accounts - what the citizens have saved in the better times - and then handing it out in the form of various prebends through social welfare, I would like us to check out who's the one who's the biggest cheerleader here and who's the favourite of our citizens. So I would ask you to put this point in order to address the prices of food and controls from the Ministry of Agriculture, especially with regard to the huge margins lobbied by the largest lobbyist, who, as I have found, is an advisor to several ministers - Mr Tomáš Prouza, President of the Trade and Tourism Union. It's too bad he only cares about the big chains and forgets about the small business that actually destroys these giants through here. By advising our ministers on how to make money, then our citizens can only smile at black coffee without sugar. Mr President, I would like to ask you to include this point on food prices for today's new day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u43	Thank you, Madame. I've got it as a newly listed or as a newly ranked point marked. I would like to ask Mrs Hanzlíková, then Mr Stržínek, then Mrs Peštová, and the last one is Mr Lubomír Wenzl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask for the inclusion of a new point, called The Threatening of Social Services with Over-regional Scope. I know you've heard this here several times, because we've actually been trying to pick up this problem from December in some way here and bring up the debate, because we think it's very important and very problematic for all the social services involved. Basically, we've been dealing with this since December, that is, since the first time it turns out that there will be a problem with the payment of subsidies for these social services. Now, why do we think this is so important? It creates a really huge uncertainty about the social services involved, because they are social services that really employ people - hearts that do their jobs professionally, but humanly, with enormous empathy, and they have to pay these people in some way. This, of course, raises the great uncertainty of their clients, because these clients are sometimes 100% dependent on these services, and therefore very much monitor how the social services organization, which they use, is doing especially in financial terms. I might be able to understand if this problem emerged from any external action that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could not influence, but this problem was triggered by a completely devastating system that has been operating at the Ministry since 1 January 2023. And it was a systemization that we've been talking about here, but she's really canceled nine departments, so it's caused the very negative phenomenon, and it's really a significant delay in payment of social services subsidies. It is also important to see what social services organisations they are. They are organisations that provide services to the most vulnerable target groups, such as seniors, disabled people or people with disabilities. They are people with autism who are addicted at all to receive regular services and support. The worst thing for me is that social services are turning to me, it is very sad that they have gotten into this situation at all, and it is even worse that the Ministry of Labour has information about the estimated deadline for payment of the subsidies, which is about the end of March, April, but they need help now, because they have been facing financial problems since January. For me, this point needs to be opened up and we really need to discuss how social services will help at this time. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask for this new point to be included either today after the fixed points or on Friday as the third point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u45	Well, thank you, I've got a note. So it's either a fixed or a third point on Friday. And now I would like to ask Mr Stržínek and then the last two registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a new item entitled Explanation of the planned change in real estate tax. It is no secret that the government is going to increase property tax. Part of the money collected would go to the revenue of the state budget, not only to the municipalities, as is the case so far. According to the media, this is the plan of the Minister of Finance, Zbyněk Stanjura. Even in the summer of 2021, the current finance minister called raising real estate tax literally dangerous, today everything is different. For Diary N Minister Stanjura said, quote: "The will to increase the tax on real estate would be." There is speculation about a double increase in this tax in political machine guns. The real estate tax increase is rejected by the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. He fundamentally rejects the proposal that part of the tax return should be part of the revenue of the state budget, and I, as mayor of the city of 20 thousand, reject it. In the long term, we are trying to keep this tax at a reasonable level, and we currently have a coefficient of 2,0. We decide on the amount of this tax, or the coefficient, and I am clearly in favour of maintaining this system. At this point, the law gives us relatively wide scope in a number of coefficients from the possibility of increasing or reducing the coefficient by size of the municipality to determining a local coefficient of between 1.1 and 5. Only through these coefficients can the basic rate be increased up to six times the basic rate. But it is still a free decision of self-government, not a dictation of government. So what's the Minister of Finance's plan? Will the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes be amended? I demand an explanation. I would therefore like to request the inclusion of a point entitled Explanation of the planned change in real estate tax as the first point after the already fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u47	Thank you. The second-to-last party is Mrs Peštová. I would also like Mr Wenzl to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have prepared the inclusion of a point that I have called the behavior of the ruling five-calice to the opposition, and I would like it to be the first point. I'd like him to be the first point in today's meeting. I don't know if your fellow Members seem normal to you the behavior of a five-calice to the current opposition. According to the Constitution, the government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. Today we are in a situation that we are in opposition, but it may happen that you will be in the opposition, and the way you tighten the screws at the same time to us, then someone can tighten the screws to you again. And I'm curious how comfortable it will be for you to try to gain your constitutional rights, and you're not capable of anything at all. I personally interviewed the Prime Minister, and I wanted to know what he would advise me to do if I were a student and he was a professor of political science, and I would ask him the same question I'm asking here right now, which is why I want to place that point. And he answered me a lot of beautiful empty words, but he didn't tell me anything in the finals. Load points! That's what we do. Place points firmly! That's what we do. Try to make an emergency meeting! That's what we do. And you guys won't even approve of the program in the finals. After all, we are trying to load these points here, and we want to discuss them here. It's embarrassing what we're doing here! But everyone we're showing off. You even go further and want to tighten the screws, so the amendment to the Rules of Procedure. You're just not gonna piss us off, we're gonna keep you on time. We'll limit you to whether or not you'll be reading anything! It's not a democracy, it's a democracy. Does this seem normal to you? It's not normal! We want to talk democratically to you about what is happening in this Republic, so we are trying to make use of everything that is available to us and what we can do as opposition, and we are essentially not going to achieve anything at all. You're not even talking to us. The very biggest goal was when I looked at the Party on Sunday, where President Markéta Pekarová Adamová sat, and she said to us how you gave us the space, how beautifully you were discussing with us, how we can record our amendments, the MPs, and how beautifully you are coming to meet us, that we are getting away with a lot of them! Can you tell me the last time we got away with this? What amendment? What law? I personally filed a number of them, even discussed them in all the committees, and in the finals it gets into the big plenary, here, and it's all busy. Once it is the opposition, the man with the leather bag must not pass! You just don't, you don't care about the substance, the substance, if it's beneficial, it's not beneficial. It's just yes, so it's not. So I want that point first. I want you to think about your behavior because I'm saying it's us today, but next time it's you! And I wonder what you're gonna do when we limit you to your rights like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u49	Thank you, and Mr Lubomír Wenzl is the last enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u50	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I propose to include as the second item of today's meeting the following item: Information from the Minister of Health on the situation relating to drugs worth CZK 66 million, delivered to Czech pharmacies and not issued to patients. In order to justify my proposal, I shall state the following. According to the recently published information of the State Institute for Drug Control, over 130 000 packagings of medicines have been removed from the register. The published information was based on the findings of the drug institute inspectors during regular checks aimed, inter alia, at the illegal withdrawal of medicinal products from the system. The method of dispensing medicinal products is seemingly simple. Pharmacy operators have ordered medicinal products, but have not introduced them into stock records, receipts or dispensing of medicinal products after delivery to the pharmacy, and in this way these products are disappearing from the system. According to the director of the State Institute for Drug Control, it was found that medical prescription-related products are being lost from the supply chain, which is even more serious. These were preparations that need, for example, diabetes patients, oncological diseases, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, asthma, epilepsy or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. To date - cases finally decided - these are medicinal products worth more than CZK 66 million and according to the statement by the director of the SÚKL, this is not the final amount, as she said. There are signs that these revelations are only the beginning and can be double or even higher. According to the Institute, there is reasonable suspicion that this is an illegal organised activity in order to export preparations abroad. They are medicines that have been proven to be illegally exported from the Republic in the past. The only small positive in this matter is that, according to the findings so far - I repeat, according to the findings so far - it is not medicinal products that our citizens are struggling with, such as fever medications for children or some antibiotics that are missing from us, but it is not excluded that this issue of the disappearance of drugs from the system also concerns them, but that is another chapter. [[10.20 hours]] In discussing this point, I would not only like to discuss and hear, in particular, the proposal for a solution by the Minister: Whether the controls on this issue will continue? What was or is the other fate of these medicinal products that have disappeared from the quotation marks system? What is the value of the medicinal products that have been removed from the system in this way and their other fate? What steps will be taken with regard to those involved in this negotiation? And what measures by the Ministry of Health will be taken to prevent this from happening in the future? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. All applications for the program have been exhausted. In the meantime, I have begun to engage, because at this point, we are going to vote on the draft amendments to the agenda of the meeting. Is there an application for a check-out? I can't see, we can take the vote. [[From the plinth of the request for a gong.]] I've already started, but I'm gonna do it again just in case. First, we will deal with President Excellent's proposal. He had two here. The first was... Yeah, I see an application for check-out, so in the meantime, I'll check you out, and we can log in. I'll just recap. Mr President Výborný, because Mr Nacher's counterproposal was also on your proposal... The proposal by Mr Excellent 2/288, the protection of employees, was - I will recapitulate - before the block of first reading for the whole week, and this was the counter-proposal that we will start with, Mr Nacher, who proposed to start today and put it first. We shall therefore begin with Mr Nacher's counter-proposal. Initiating vote. I repeat, if you start today as the first point. Who's in? Who's against it? We have vote number 43, registered 165, for was 75, against 83. Denied. And so we can now proceed to the motion of President Excellent. We're at employee protection, outside the first reading block, for the entire week of the meeting. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 44, 170 entered, for was 165, versus 1. Accepted. In the same way, we will be voting in favour of Mr Excellent's second proposal. This is electronic communication. Again as before, this means a proposal before the block of first reading, for the whole week of the meeting. Mr Nacher's counter-proposal was to start today, to put it first. So we are voting on Mr Nacher's counterproposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, logged in 171, for 82, versus 80. Result: rejected. We can therefore proceed to the vote of Mr Excellent's motion - electronic communication before the first reading block, for the whole week. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 46, registered 172, for 165, versus 2. Result: accepted. We can now proceed to further proposals for amendments and we will always vote in this way because these are new points if they are adopted as a new point. We are voting on the petitioner's proposal, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová - Government information on the sale of state property, if we agree first to include it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered 173, for was 81, versus 87. Denied. I am merely announcing that Mr Výborný will vote with replacement card number 39. Next, we will vote on Mr Kamal Farhan's proposal - confusion in the provision of medicines to the Czech Republic by the Minister of Health, and we will vote again on whether we will place a new point. Who's in? Initiating vote. Who's against it? Voting number 48, logged in 174, for 81, versus 83. Denied. Another proposal was Mr Vondráček's proposal - a threat to freedom of speech in the Czech Republic. We're voting if he's going to be ranked as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, logged in 174, for 80, versus 88. Denied. Mr. Patrik Nacher's proposal... Sorry, we've already voted. So another proposal by Mr Nacher - information from the government on combating misinformation and the threat of censorship. We're voting on whether to place it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, logged in 174, for 81, versus 85. Denied. We will also vote on President Schillerová's proposal - škrt proposed by the Ministry of Finance on reducing parental contributions and we will vote on whether to include this as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, logged in 174, for 81, versus 90. Denied. We are also voting on Mr Robert Králíček's proposal, the title of the item was proposed by the Czech Post and we are voting on whether to include it as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, logged in 174, for 78, versus 85. Denied. Another proposal is from Mr Lubomír Brož to valorize parental contributions in the light of dramatic inflation. We're voting to place it as a new point. Who's in? Initiating vote. Who's against it? Voting number 53, there was 173, for it was 79, against 87. And result: rejected. [[10.30 hours]] We also have Mr Brázdil's proposal - Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. We vote to place a point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 54, logged in 174, for was 78, versus 88. Also denied. The next proposal is from Mr Martin Kolovratník - Uncertain budget of the Ministry of Transport and risk of construction. We're voting on whether or not we're going to put it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55, 174, for it was 79, against 92. Denied. Mr Hubert Lang has proposed a point of Reorganization of the Police of the Czech Republic, a migration crisis. We're voting for inclusion as a new item. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 56, registered 173, for 80, against 88. Denied. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová proposes a point of concrete steps and solutions to the provision of medicines for citizens of the Czech Republic. We're voting to place it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 57, registered was 174, for 81, against 86. Denied. The next proposal is from Mrs Margita Balaštíková, she called the item Food Prices and we are voting on whether it will be included as a new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 58, logged in 174, for 79, versus 88. Denied. We are also voting on Mrs Jana Hanzlíková's proposal, she called the issue The threat of social services with an over-regional scope. We're voting on whether to place it as a new point. Initiating vote. And who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 59, registered 174, for 77, versus 84. Denied. Mr Robert Stržínek proposes an explanation of the planned change in real estate tax. We're voting to see if he's going to be ranked as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 60, logged in 174, for 78, versus 88. Denied. And as the penultimate one, we have a point from Mrs Berenika Peštová - the behaviour of the five-calice against the opposition. We're going to vote on whether or not to include as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 61, logged in 174, for was 79, versus 87. Denied. And as a last item, Mr Lubomír Wenzl's proposal, he called the point the Information of the Ministry of Health on the situation relating to drugs worth CZK 66 million delivered to Czech pharmacies but not issued to patients. We're voting on whether or not we're going to put it as a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 62, 174, in favour, 78, against 86. Denied. This, ladies and gentlemen, has dealt with all the proposals for amendments to the agenda for the meeting, and at this point we can move on to a firmly-placed point number 89, and I will take turns with my colleague, Madam Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-000-000.u52	Beautiful morning. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the item
