ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u1	136. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 12 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have ten more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further." We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová responded to Mr Martin Kolovratník's interpellation on the hasty conclusions of missile intervention in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 364. The discussion of this reply has been suspended repeatedly, for the last time on 1 June 2023, in the presence of the Minister of Defence. Minister Černochová is not present, so there is no condition for the interpelation to be restarted, so it now insists that she is interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Defence. I'm ending this interpelation. Let's move on to interpelling another one. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Ms Jana Pastuchová's interview on the lack of security clearance of the Deputys of a member of the Government at the Ministry of Health to a degree confidential. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 388. The discussion of this reply has been suspended repeatedly, for the last time on 1 June 2023, until the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is here, Mrs Jana Pastuchová is not, so the interpellation is failing, and I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. [[9.10 hours]] Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mr Karel Havlíček's interview on hiring a journalist at Forum24 by the Office of the Government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 408. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. We will therefore continue the interrupted debate, because the President is present. Do I ask if anyone is reporting for the debate? Yes, Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, allow me to present my written interview with the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, on hiring a journalist at Forum24 by the Office of the Government. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, I would just point out that in your programming statement you have written that you will place emphasis on the independence of the media, which I think is correct, and my intervention concerns that the Office of the Government was interested in hiring journalists from the Forum24 pro-government publishing house. A contract was signed with a commentator and a member of the editors of this publishing house for up to CZK 500,000 a year. It was only after the pressure of other media that it withdrew from this treaty. There's one more thing I'd like to say. To a large extent, I can't blame this label, everyone has the right to write what he wants, what he wants, what he wants, how he can behave, how he can behave. In a way, although I may not like it, but I don't see anything undemocratic, nothing extraordinary. If they make that choice, it's their choice. The second thing is that I am actually convinced that there should be some critical analysis of you and other members of the government in terms of cooperation, namely paid cooperation from erary means. You said here, and I kind of liked that, too, I guess it was two or three back-to-back interpelations, that you're taking you, and that you like those who have a different opinion. So that someone lobbying from some publishing house for having their people partially paid off, I can partly understand that from the perspective of the editor, I can hardly understand it from the point of view of your or the Office of the Government. I have three simple questions, and please, would you be able to answer them? First of all, why was this commentator from Forum24 supposed to be a paid advisor? Because, of course, we also have unpaid advisors. The second question is on you, Prime Minister, if you could please tell me if you have ever seen the articles of this particular commentator or journalist, and have you read them? Because I assume that when it comes to paid people, your advisor, you're checking them out, so how do you feel about these articles? And the third question I have, would you please answer us if any of the Forum24 publishers, in the sense of some reciprocity, have ever urged you specifically or your closest co-workers to do so for the totally obvious help that this publishing house provides you on an ongoing basis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u3	Thank you. The Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes we really are dealing with things that may not even be worth our time, but that is how it is. And I will, of course, answer the questions asked by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Karel Havlíček. First of all, it must be said that Jiří Sezemský should not have been my advisor and that such a contract was never even concluded. He was to cooperate with the Office of the Government and was to advise - advice in a field other than his journalistic activities. The amount of his reward should have depended on the time worked out, which means that monthly it would be the amount in units of thousands of crowns, which I guess - I'm saying this on purpose, because it's probably everyone's idea that this isn't a thing or an amount that could be influenced by any media. Why was the Office of the Government, the relevant department, the analytical department of the Office of the Government interested in working with Mr Sezemský, among other reasons, and this was the same as the description of his activities, that Jiří Sezemský has knowledge in the social field, worked at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and he also dealt with this issue at the time of his work at the Office of the Government, so he is a person who has experience in this area, has experience with the state administration, and that is why he had the Office of the Government - I repeat, he should not have been my advisor - that is why the Office of the Government was interested in his services. That's the question of why. To ask if I've seen his articles, no, even though I know that name, of course. I'd like to conduct these interpelations in such a material and calm tone, but sometimes it's really difficult. I am here to confess that the Office of the Government wanted to hire a person with experience in the past in an area that would be usable in analytical services for a few hours a week with - so that everyone would still understand the context of what we are talking about - Jiří Sezemský finally decided to terminate the contract, or he didn't start his business just to avoid unnecessary speculation and attacks. I think I've quite explained all the contexts, but I can't forgive myself for one comment. I'm asked by an ANO representative who calls one of the independent diaries pro-government. You, of course, have the right, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, as I may have had the right to refer to some of the media as pro-government in the past. But there was one significant difference, and the difference was, for example, what the ownership structure was, who the owner is, how these things work. So I would be careful with the labeling of the individual media, but I wouldn't be careful about it, and I think that's the thing we need to be careful about when politicians own some media. And I think, speaking of the past, I would also remind you that during the reign of Andrej Babiš, only advertising - only advertising - to Mafra exceeded CZK 140 million. So that everyone knows all the contexts now that the ANO movement is so concerned about the independence of the media. But to sum up and show the essence of the whole of the interpelation, or the fact that the interpelation is built on water. Jiří Sezemský was not to be my advisor, he was to perform analytical services for the Office of the Government on the basis of his previous professional experience, the work was to be external, just as he is an external collaborator according to my information, which I found out to be an external collaborator of the said journal. Jiří Sezemský ended this contract right at the beginning, just on the basis of the attacks that occurred by the ANO movement. And by that, I think the whole thing is solved. She's not worth taking care of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u5	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček is interested in speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I'm not going to extend it because I agree that there are more important points, I would just put two or three things on the right line. It was not based on the pressure of the YES movement, it was based on the pressure of the media that did not like this. It was not a trivial amount - CZK 500 per hour up to CZK 500 000 per year. I don't consider it entirely irrelevant. I understand it wasn't meant to be your advisor directly, thank you for the explanation, so he was a consultant at the Office of the Government, but I'm undoubtedly based on the fact that you're also drawing on their information. I specifically said here that I do not blame to a large extent those who were interested in it - such as the editor or the editor - for having an interest in working somewhere and having something paid for it is one thing. And I didn't judge whether I like it or not, whether anyone writes as pro-government or anti-government, that's really purely for the decision of the editor and we're in a free world, everyone can write what they want, defend the interests they want, that's their decision entirely. I didn't question who you're putting in any ads like the government did last time. I'm based on the fact that you're undoubtedly doing this by reading something, and if there's an advert for, like, this label, what can I say? If it proves that it's read and that it's your interest group, or that it's a group that's going to spread the information you need to get somewhere, I don't see anything wrong with that. And it doesn't matter if it's MAFRA, if it's - I don't know - Hospodářské noviny, Economia, if it's any other label, even this label. My point was purely that the editors of this publishing house want to be and conclude contracts, even though they eventually canceled, not completely irrelevant sums, with the Office of the Government, which logically leads to the fact that it may not be entirely fair. And finally, I didn't point that out, I say again, the independent media pointed that out. But I would ask one last question, perhaps you didn't note it there - only, Prime Minister, if anyone in the past has put any pressure or activity on you or your loved ones in the sense of reciprocity towards this label. All you have to say is, there's never been anything like this in our country, and I respect it, I take it, or you say, "Yes, it was, but maybe we resisted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u7	Thank you. Is the Prime Minister interested in speaking in the debate? Yes, he does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u8	So if I understand this correctly - and I do not dispute it, that is the opinion of Vice-President Havlíček - if someone is an external collaborator of some media and there expresses some opinions, then he does not have the opportunity to provide analytical services to the state. I understand that, I respect that. I don't think so, but you need to name it clearly - and simply describe it - what you're implying. When it comes to pressure from any side, I don't really understand what you're asking. Like an independent diary would put pressure on the government? Well, that's what every diary does when it writes about what the government does, what the government does wrong, what it should do better. That is the essence of democracy, and that is the way it is. And otherwise, I don't understand what you're asking. Yes, the media are putting some kind of pressure on us, and that's right, because they represent citizens' interests, represent independent opinions in space, criticise the government, criticize every government, criticize the opposition, and thus create a form of pressure that is legitimate, that is right and that is right. I don't know what you're wondering and how it should be otherwise. Or do you mean some other form of pressure? And if you have any reason to ask that question, then tell us the reason.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u9	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u10	Prime Minister, of course, the media, in its own way, is creating some kind of pressure in a natural way, and the fact that every government then is on a certain level, that's not what I really meant. I specifically meant whether or not one of their representatives from this publishing house was close to you or to people who were close to you, was or was mediated to discuss that certain reciprocity should be provided, for example, on the basis of advertising or, for example, on the basis of the employment of a particular person or the conclusion of a contract with a particular person from this editorial office as reciprocity for the fact that this publishing house or this journal in the past or at present is written in such a way that it suits the government. That's all. And all you have to do is say, "No, no one like that asked us to do anything like that - I fully respect it, or maybe you'll say something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u11	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in speaking in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u12	In the case of my government and myself, I can say no, but unfortunately I cannot say no in the case of the Government of the Czech Republic. If we had the Mladá fronta TODAY, its editor Jaroslav Plesl is the biggest defender of Andrej Babiš, even when he was in the government of Andrej Babiš, and I read from the documents I have that the advertising of the state under the rule of Andrej Babiš represented 140 million crowns, you are probably right that there was such pressure at the time. Or when both interested gentlemen told us that the editor-in-chief of the Lidové noviny István Léko and Andrej Babiš, that they went to play tennis together, and then we read in the Lidové noviny a great defense of every step of Andrej Babiš, there was undoubtedly such a connection. So I assume you speak from your own experience and from the experience of the YES movement. I'm sorry there was such a practice here, we're done with the practice, there's no pressure on us by journalists, we don't listen to anyone in this regard, and we don't come forward. And that's finally the politics it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u13	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u14	Can I close this with my proposal now? Or... [[The President: put forward a proposal.]] May I? Thank you. I'm not gonna prolong this anymore. You said it politically, Prime Minister. I understand that, the political message. No doubt you know what I was aiming for, and since I have not received a very clear, quite obvious answer, in this case, I propose a resolution that "the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply to Mr Havlíček's interpellation to the Prime Minister on hiring a journalist at Forum24 by the Office of the Government". Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u15	Yes, thank you. Now, let's settle... Anyone else reporting for the debate? No? So I am done with the debate. Vice-President Havlíček has read the motion for a resolution, we have all heard it, and it is therefore that he does not agree with the Prime Minister's reply, in short. [[A voice from the diaper.]] We log out, there's a check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. [[Member Michálek reporting from the area in front of the speaker's counter.]] Mr. Chairman Michálek has... [[Members are calling from the benches.]] Please, there's a motion for a vote, so when you change your mind, you need to vote. [[To MP Michálek.]] You're applying for what? With priority rights. Please. [[Dissenting screams from the diaper: There should be a vote! Let's go! Member Michalek gestures to the President.]] Please, nicely, I'll go on, get ready, we'll vote. We are voting on the proposal of Vice-President Havlíček. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 383, 85 Members and Members, in favour of 39, against 46. The motion was denied. And I'm done discussing this interpellation. [[9.30 hours]] With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, I respect that my colleagues think that the vote should not give priority rights, and we will do so tomorrow. And I don't know... [[President Schiller responds from the bench.]] If you want to talk, Madam President, sign up with a priority right, I'm sure you can talk. I just wanted to ask you about the previous question of why we should have disagreed with the answer, because if it was clearly not said here, the reason for the disagreement is that you would have wanted it to be yes? Or do you have any indication that it wasn't true? I just didn't get it, and that's all I wanted to ask. But so I understand, the matter is closed, the Chamber of Deputies voted, only on the priority right I wanted this to sound like a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u17	Thank you. We will now proceed to the discussion of the next interpelation and that is the interpelation of the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek. Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek responded to Mr Ivan Adamec's intervention on the activities of some law enforcement authorities. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 418. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 in the presence of the Minister of Justice. The Minister is duly excused, i.e. it takes a reason to interrupt this interpelation, and I am ending the discussion of this interpelation. Another intervention is the interpelation again to Minister Blažek. Minister Pavel Blažek responded to Mr Ivan Adamec's interpelation on the attempt to intervene with my constitution guaranteed the right to interpelate on members of the government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 419. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 in the presence of the Minister of Justice. The Minister is duly excused, therefore it takes a reason to interrupt this interpelation, and I am terminating this interpelation... the discussion of this interpelation for today. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mrs Alena Schillerová's interview on the tax brake. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press 425. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is present, so we will continue the adjourned debate. I'm asking if anybody's checking in? Madam President Schillerová. prosit, you have... [[President Schiller reporting.]] Yes, it is now underway and the debate that you have just signed up for is also open. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u18	Yes, thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I've been intersecting you - I'm just going to put a little bit into context, my interpelation was given on 10 March and, of course, on time, and I think it was even interrupted, and now I'm not sure we have much to discuss today on 15 June, and I'm sure I'd like to ask a lot of other things, but I'm gonna stick to the intersect because in the light of actually new circumstances, there's also something to discuss. So in the sense of Art. 53 The Constitutions of the Czech Republic, as amended by constitutional changes and under Section 112 of the Act and so on, I intersect in the matter of tax brakes, which was one of the backbone pre-election promises of the ODS in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, when the ODS promised to introduce, if it joined the government and had this power, most of it in the House, which happened, so you introduce the tax brake rule into the legal system. In the Government's programming statement, you have then stated that the rule - I quote - "the tax brake rule sets a ceiling on the tax burden, which sets the upper limit of the compound tax quota, after which tax increases will be automatically excluded'. Since the updated programme statement of March 2023 no longer contains the tax brake rule, I would like to underline that one of the other pre-election promises that you have made quietly out of the programme statement that you have updated, I ask you to confirm my assumption that this means that the government coalition - and I asked that then - is planning to increase the tax burden in the Czech Republic today. At the time it was a question, today I know it is, it is planning. And in this case, I'm asking you for information on what high level will the current compound tax quota, which amounts to 34,5 percent, be raised in the following years in your opinion? Is there a line that your government will consider unstoppable? I think that this is information that is important not only for citizens, but also for employers, investors, it is a fundamental co-determination of the attractiveness of the country, and I believe that you owe the answer to this question by removing the promises of tax brakes to the public. Thank you for your answer and so on and so forth. And now we're here, and now we're here to find out how these things are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u20	Madam Vice-President, Madam President of the ANO Group of Parliament, I think that this is certainly a subject, unlike the previous one that needs to be discussed, and I will be happy to explain some of the contexts that concern the release of the tax brake clause from the programme declaration. We didn't do it quietly, we did it in a way that no government had done before, which means that we publicly presented a revision of the programming statement, or we specified our tasks, modified the timetable, and for those things where we found out for various reasons that they simply could not be implemented, we actually informed the public about it and released them from the programming statement. The reason why the programming declaration still does not contain the adoption of the tax brake, but it is not that we would like to raise taxes, is not that we are afraid that we will not keep the tax quota as high as would have been expected by some sort of tax brakes, but the reason is purely legislative. The reason for this is legislative and it is as follows: a standard law is not enough to adopt such a provision, a constitutional law is needed, and our coalition does not have enough votes to adopt a constitutional law. During that year in the Chamber of Deputies, we were convinced that we had no chance of winning an ally for such a change of law. As we can see in practically everything, the agreement with the opposition on some joint procedure, including the ANO membership club, is difficult, if not impossible. The idea that we could adopt a constitutional law in such a matter is undoubtedly naive. This was one reason why we have realistically assessed that the adoption of measures requiring a constitutional majority, and thus cooperation beyond the government coalition on taxation and tax regulation, is not possible in this sense. I repeat again, as a constitutional law. [[9.40 hours]] The second reason - and it is also legislative, and it also has nothing to do with the fact that we may not be able or want to keep the tax quota to a certain limit - is that the European Commission published a report on economic affairs in the European Union after a long period of time last November, the basic basis of which was confirmed by the Council of the European Union in the composition of finance ministers and the economy in March. The subject of this reform is a substantial change in the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. With the possible introduction of national regulation, even if we agree with the opposition to the constitutional law - which, as I say, is not very likely, but if you are willing to do so, we will start talking about it - so it is appropriate to wait until the final wording of this reform, so that we do not have to correct it again. So once again, there are no reasons why we would be afraid that we would fail to comply with this, that we would expect some significant changes to the compound tax quota, that we would resign from wanting to have low taxes and not want to raise them. The reason is legislative, we would need a constitutional majority. We do not see the likelihood that we would agree on this, but even if we agreed on it, and if you are ready to participate with us now, for example, the second thing is that it is advantageous, reasonable and actually necessary to wait for the national adjustment for the final version of the reform so that we do not have to make further adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u21	Thank you. The President is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Thank you for your answer. My natural courtesy is to thank me, although, excuse me, Prime Minister, I consider your answer a little to be excuses. I don't remember ever being invited by anyone, even if not by you, by the Treasury Secretary, to any debate on this subject, so it's hard to anticipate what you're thinking of, from some - do you read body language? I mean, I don't know what you meant. No debate...of course there couldn't be given any blank cheque, I can't tell you that we would agree, but there was never any attempt or incentive for this discussion to be given to the opposition. But how do you put it in the context of the other things? We have a tax package here, we hear a strong statement from the Treasury Secretary that nothing will change about it. The tax package results from tax increases across companies and related contributions by around 83 billion - I draw this from the Ministry of Finance's material. So how's this going in context? And then the context with the Stability and Growth Pact. I have noted that some debates are starting, and the debates are probably not going to be easy at European Union level. These would then be reflected - I understand - in national legislation. Here you have in mind, if I'm not mistaken, the law on the rules of budgetary responsibility - or what does that have to do with it? First of all, you promised you wouldn't raise your taxes, then you made a commitment to some of the tax brakes, which you released. Yes, you're right that our government didn't change the government's programming statement, I won't comment on other governments, our government didn't change the government's programming statement, and even through covid, over two years of brutal crisis, GDP fall, income fall, we've fulfilled about 87 percent of the government's programming statement. But let's leave that aside now. I am more interested: put it in the context of this tax increase that you will come to the Chamber of Deputies very early in July at the latest, if I am not mistaken, on 28 June in the government, I have such information from the public space, and how this is related to the Stability Pact and possibly to national legislation. How do you project it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u23	Thank you. The debate is attended by Prime Minister Fiala, then Minister Stanjura. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u24	Madam President, I'm sure there are other experts from the opposition who are commenting on whether someone is nodding their head as they face and so on, which I consider to be at least tacky, if not rude, but that is some personal decision. What am I judging from? From the reality, from the works - "you will know them after the fruit. " We've been trying to negotiate, like, pension reform and other things, maybe there's no deal, so I don't expect her to be here. If the agreement is possible here, we will be pleasantly surprised and, of course, we are prepared to debate this after the adoption of the European standard. I'm going to put it in context with you, and I think it's a good idea for us to remember some of the numbers and some of the facts here and also remind ourselves of the evolution of the compound tax quota, and why we're not afraid that we can't keep and keep the tax brake if we set it. It's not an excuse, it's just that we need a constitutional majority to do it. Realistically, I see that we do not have a constitutional majority, there are 108 of us who would vote in favour, and realistic is also to wait for a new European standard - an adjustment to the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, which are facts that could not have been known in the election or just after the election situation. Now, why aren't we worried we couldn't hold on to the tax brake? Let us remember how compound tax quotas have developed in recent years. In the draft State Budget for 2020, the combined tax quota should have been 35.9 %, which was calculated according to another methodology, the OECD methodology is even 36.6%, which is the highest since 1993, when it was 37 percent. This value was not achieved in the end, I say this fairly, because of an increase in the state budget deficit, which amounted to CZK 367,4 billion. The combined tax quota of 34,5 % including windfall tax, this is the approved version of the State budget for 2023, is far from the values proposed by the previous government. What about the tax burden on citizens and companies in the consolidation package and what about the burden on citizens and companies now? This year, the day of tax freedom is June 13, 2023. This means that citizens will earn 163 days to cover the expenditure to be incurred by the State. In 2022, it was 167 days, or this figure falls under our government. The largest since 2020, when this figure is published, was the highest in 2020 and 2021. Thus, since 2000 this figure was the highest in 2020 and 2021 and it was then 175 days. Thus, there was the highest increase in the rule of Andrej Babiš, when citizens were making money on the state's activities. Highest in history to follow. So once again, we're not worried that we wouldn't be able to keep up with any tax quota. I have made it clear here on the figures that the tax quota still folded, including the windfall tax, is lower than it was in your government, and we believe that if there were no legislative obstacles I was talking about, we might as well have had a tax brake in the legislation, because we could and would be able to maintain it. I showed it to you on specific numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u25	Thank you. Minister Stanjura is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u26	Thank you for the floor. I welcome this debate, and if we are able to find a solution, it will be good, because we want it to be a constitutional law. This means, if there was a consensus, it would have to be a consensus wider than the current government coalition, whether in the past or in this parliamentary term, so it makes sense, because many of the steps you take, such as stabilizing public budgets, do not correspond to the length of the electoral cycle. It's always paid, it's true this year. The Prime Minister actually described how the compound tax quota developed, so let me just add that the lowest was in 2009, 32.4. I've had the data here since 2007, I don't have the data before. The highest was then, and was the same between 2018 and 2021, namely 35,8. Last year is 34.7. These are data from the Czech Statistical Office, so it can be verified. There was probably no answer to the question of what it would be like after the adoption of the consolidation package. It is estimated by the Ministry of Finance that, following the adoption of the consolidation package, the combined tax quota will be 34,5 %, i.e. 0.2 % lower than it was in 2022. We have often been criticized, in particular, by the unions, for the things that we have pushed through - and this with the support of the opposition - for the years 2023 and 2024, either accelerated depreciation or an increase in the minimum threshold for the mandatory VAT registration rate. For this, we have been criticized by the unions, and this, of course, has led to a reduction in the tax quota. This means that at the moment -the time will judge us, but according to the prediction, and you know these people, Madame - it should be 34,5, 34,7-34,5 - it is two tenths of a point. I think I can say it doesn't grow by estimate. We can argue if it drops by two tenths. I don't consider the two tenths to be significant, but they don't. If we're looking for a long-term solution, we need to figure out what we're counting on. I'm sure I'm against the law for a fixed amount. We can say that 35,8 as in 2021 or 34,7 as in 2022 or 34,5. There are several possible approaches, such as the OECD average, and have some tolerance zones there. I think it turned out that it would also be quite good in the budgetary responsibility law to have what is in the Stability Pact, that is, some kind of escape clause. We need to figure out who might activate it. Maybe we think it's a constitutional majority, not a current government. Then it could be that, for example, in the covido years, we could use the escape clause and not have to change the law. We had to do it, I'm not questioning it, I don't want to go back to the debate. I am just saying that these are things for which we have long stood for the constitutional majority as ODS until at least 2010 and I honestly say that since 2010, we have not been able to find a constitutional majority in any composition of the Chamber of Deputies. If we were successful, I would be pleasantly surprised, but it would probably be good news for public budgets in the next parliamentary term. So we're ready for this debate, we've got enough numbers. I think that the debate on the tolerance zone, what value, or if not to have it - rather in the bill on budgetary obligations rather than the tax brake - is appropriate for an escape clause. The European Union used it in 2021, 2022 and this year as well. I suppose it won't be next year. But without having to change the rules, the laws, the directives, the regulations, it's a pretty good institute. It's just a debate about who decided we could use the escape clause. We're ready for this debate. If the opposition is ready for it - and I do not rule it out at all, and I do not want to criticize anybody - then at least at expert level we can start to deal with this because we are not so far away from getting to political decision making, we are not that far away. That question is difficult for me. The Prime Minister spoke about the Commission's proposal to adjust fiscal rules. Just today was published in about five European journals by Le Figaro, through Gazeta Wyborcz, and another three joint articles or a joint opinion of nine finance ministers. I think the Czech Republic is in good company. To remember someone, I will read you colleagues and colleagues from other Member States alphabetically, so it is simple: Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Croatia, Lithuania, Latvia, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria and Slovenia. We've issued a common position. If I simplify it: we need rules, but we need rules that won't say that in 20 years something will change. We need those rules to be clear, effective and enforceable, which is the problem of existing rules, especially with the enforcement. We need to focus on this right away, not put it off all the time, because the numbers show that when a crisis comes, the starting position is worse. When we took the average debt, in this case, the eurozone members before the crisis 2008, then the crisis was 2008, 2009 - Lehman Brothers, then there were years of booming in Europe, and before the start of the covid, the situation was worse than before the start of the crisis 2008 and after those years of booming in Europe. The same was true with the consequences of the war in Ukraine and the energy crisis. But I don't expect a quick deal. If you look territorially at how the signatories are deployed, the agreement will not be easy, because the debates go towards the spending rule, not just to the ratio to GDP. This is what the Czech Republic and our experts welcome and will not be easy to do, but that is the European thing. We don't really need this to talk about our own consolidation of public finances, so if there's a chance that the project, the idea of tax brakes, or the regulation of the law on budgetary responsibility, will have a chance at a constitutional majority, I'm in favour of acting intensively. Let us face it honestly - if anyone says that the current state is satisfactory, it is a fully legitimate political position, and we do not have to burden experts to prepare the evidence for tens and tens of hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u27	Thank you, Minister. President Schillerová is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u28	Thanks for the word. I appreciate the fact that we're having a really factual and fair debate here. I will not abuse the interpelation and the topic of the interpelation to the thousands of questions I have for the minister who is here now, I will certainly do so at a different time. I would have thousands of questions, and you know that I'm constantly in public space, on budget, and so on, but now we're sticking to the topic of interpellation, and that's the tax brake. I think the debate - we never resist any debate. I understand that in order to be created here by the experts of the Treasury, who are clearly busy right now, some opinions, and then we rejected it, it's pointless. At this point, we're at the door when the tax package fight is torn down, that's for sure. The package raises taxes plus taxes - I think I'm drawing on your material, Minister - by 73 billion. This means that we actually find ourselves politically involved in something that the government, especially the ODS, has promised and failed to keep. This week, the Vice-President of the House for the ODS, Mr Skopeček, who therefore found the courage and said: Yes, we broke our promise. But I'm sure that's what we'll say when we discuss the package. I'll take one more of those... That's why it's difficult to have this debate right now, because there are a lot of variables here. I will not forgive myself for what I say here repeatedly, what was part of our policy - tax collection, then it does not have to increase. It's kind of our status that we've been promoting for a long time. I was very concerned when I read it, I think this week or last time that the European applicant said - I'm sorry, I just lost my name - and she pointed out that VAT fraud is starting to have strings in the Czech Republic. That wouldn't be a good signal, and I believe the new CEO will be taking care of it. So there's too many variables. [[10.00 hours]] He and that day of tax freedom, Prime Minister, will shift next year. I'm quoting Mr. Marek here, I'm sure we all know him well, it's... it's not only that he's from Deloitte, but he's actually an advisor to the President. He said: "In the next year one can expect a shift of the day of tax freedom to a later date. The consolidation package presented by the government is expected to increase taxes next year and the day of tax freedom is likely to shift again to later." So it's all gonna be different again. That's why I'm saying there's a lot of variables to be able to close a serious conclusion at this point. It is fair to say here, and I think you have also said so, Minister, if I have listened well, that we have pushed through some of the measures that have led to a reduction in the tax quota together in the past period - and you have admitted that, I also admit - whether it was a real estate tax, and I am behind this step, the abolition - especially of the supergross wage, you have named extraordinary depreciation here. Yes, it goes on. All of this had our support, we put it in the context of the covid crisis and rightly - or not rightly, I think not rightly - but we are taking criticism from different sides together, that is true and it needs to be recalled, but it has led to a reduction in the tax quota and I stand by the fact that these measures have simply helped, the depreciation of entrepreneurs, the abolition of the supergross wage has helped employees and it is not true that only the high-income ones, because it has helped everyone. And, of course, logically, when someone has a lower salary, they have a lower tax. If someone has a higher salary - and I don't want to live in the world, I hope we can agree on that where everyone would take the same salary. And the acquisition tax, we're not going to tell ourselves that, that was just a tax, where the property that somebody once paid out of their money was twice burdened with, I don't have to explain it here, that's what we said to each other x-times. So it's really a difficult debate at the moment burdened with variables, we'll see the package, it hasn't passed through the government yet, we'll see how it passes, how it goes through this Chamber of Deputies. This, of course, will also have an impact on this. I am not surprised that there is a debate on the Stability Pact, because Europe is divided. And when we look at the level of debt, we have states here that really are enormous, and of course they're going to push, they're especially southern states, you know it well as I do, which have always pushed and will push to disengage the pact. You know, he's been loosening up in the covide for a while. And then there are these hawks, the Nordic countries, who, on the other hand, will push to make the rules more stringent. But the debt ratio already applies to economically strong countries like Germany. It is relatively high there, although, of course, Germany is an economically strong country, that it will probably manage without any problems, but the debt ratio is high there, still applies. Even after she got up under your rule, we're still, if I'm not mistaken, the eighth least-indebted country. At this point, I will not propose a resolution. I appreciate the fact that this debate has been done in a matter of fact, it has been done in numbers, because we will certainly meet in the tax package, we will meet there politically, there are many things that bother me. In the end, my next interpelation will involve one of those points, and I wrote it at a time when I didn't know how it would turn out politically at the level of your government. So at this point, I do not propose a resolution, I take it that it was a substantive debate that is now burdened with large variables, especially from the point of view of raising taxes. That's a well-known fact today, we have a tax package in eKLEP, it's discussed, we've had a commentary procedure, and we're definitely going to meet politically there. I would not even know why I would propose a resolution here because we were talking about the figures that are relevant at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u29	Thank you, and we'll take turns at the counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u30	I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? That is not the case, so I am ending the debate and I am asking President Schillerová whether she is proposing a resolution? [[Mrs Schiller from the bench: I've already said it.]] Yeah, I'm sorry, I was out of the O.R. Okay, we can terminate this interpelation and proceed to interpellation with another one. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mrs Alena Schillerová's interpellation with regard to tax increases to businessmen and procyclical economic policies in the light of international comparison of GDP developments. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 426. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is present, so we will continue the adjourned debate. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate? Madam Speaker isn't speaking? He's reporting. Excellent. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u31	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Well, I'm in such a strange situation that I wrote this interview on March 27, 2023, we have today on June 15th, we already know how things are. I wrote it at the time when there were rumors about tax increases, tradesmen's contributions, and the interpellation was interrupted, so I will read it, although, of course, I repeat again that we are really in a different time. The question was: "Dear Prime Minister, the development of GDP in the Czech Republic in the fourth quarter of 2022 was the seventh worst among OECD countries. We are among the few countries that have fallen into recession. January figures on retail sales confirm the alarming trend. Year-on-year real decline - ninth month in a row, this time by 7.7 %. According to statistics, households are already saving on absolutely everything, including usually stable food purchases. E-shops are down for sales 13 months in a row." Of course, I'm putting the January numbers with regard to when I wrote the interpellation. "As completely alarming, I consider the information confirmed by the Ministry of Finance that the government is preparing to increase the drainage burden on traders, both indirectly by increasing VAT rates and directly by increasing the contributions by two thirds to half. I believe that the ODS, which has always been enchanted by a positive approach to business, will not go to increasing taxes for businessmen, the less so at a time when the Czech economy has reached the brink of recession. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to truly clarify the real intentions of increasing the drain load" and so on. We know where we are today. Still, I had to read the interview, which was from March 27th. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u32	Thank you. The Prime Minister is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u33	Madam Vice-President, yes, I am reporting for the debate, and I want to explain some of the things that concern the support of our government to businessmen, self-employed, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and, of course, I also say and admit that there is a certain slight adjustment in terms of businessmen and their insurance payments, a recovery package, and far from affecting all businessmen, but it concerns those who are in the minimum premium. There is a good reason - it is not a burden of tradesmen, it is the protection of self-employed people in the sense that they are to achieve - or we want to create an opportunity for them, to force them to pay such sums as to secure at least some pension when they retire. It is protection for both businessmen and it is important from the point of view of social solidarity, because these people, if they retire, it is not that they didn't put enough on the social system or into the pension system, and then, logically, they don't receive a pension from which to live, but the problem is that they become clients of the social system, and that is obviously not good for both them and society, and it doesn't contribute to what we call social solidarity. So we're really doing this adjustment. The planned increase for those who are in minimum premium is indeed, but it will also mean that their pension will increase from 10 to 14,000 crowns. [[10.10 hours]] However, I want to remind you - and this must be put in the overall context - that our government has taken a number of measures since it took place to help self-employed people, create better conditions for them, and especially those measures in many ways respond to what businessmen and small entrepreneurs have complained about, what they wanted to improve, and where they have urged us to make certain adjustments to the overall system settings we have in the Czech Republic, and the rules in which they then have to and can do business. So we're really going to make this adjustment, which only applies to those who actually don't even have the profit that corresponds to the minimum wage, because it's in the interests of businessmen, so it's in the interests of some elementary justice, it's in the interests of maintaining the pension and social system. There are a lot of reasons why this needs to be done, but at the same time it must not be forgotten that we have done and we are taking a number of measures that create better conditions for self-employed people. I'm going to remind some of these things here, the list would be long, we might not even be able to make it to 11 o'clock, but at least a few things briefly, some of them are more technical, but those are the very ones that the tradesmen who are struggling with in that everyday practice have just called. Just by chance. Annual limit for compulsory VAT registration increase from 1 million to 2 million. From January 2023, after 18 years, the annual turnover limit for compulsory VAT registration has been increased. This is a tax savings, it is clearly a reduction in the tax burden, but it is also, and it is important, to reduce the administrative burden on small entrepreneurs, who are deprived of the obligation to register as VAT payers and to fulfil a number of obligations associated with it. Furthermore, for self-employed persons, three zones of flat-rate taxation arrangements. Of course, with regard to VAT payers, the limits of income from a separate activity for entry into the flat-rate tax regime are logically increasing, the amount will not be the same for all, but three bands derived from the amount of income and the applicable flat-rate expenditure are introduced. Further measures - reduction of the penalty for late submission of the inspection report in half, extension of the deadline for submitting it. We know what was caused here because of the problems with the inspection report, how many criticisms were here. We responded, I think, very reasonably, we didn't cancel all this, but we parametrically modified the inspection reports in the area of fines and calls for submission, in line with what the bad experience from practice and what the businessmen called for. We've reduced the excise duty on fuel plus we've abolished the obligation to mix up the biocomponent. It was a temporary measure, a reduction in excise duty in the case of diesel, but saving was obvious and it helped tradesmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in a significant way. Another thing I can point out here, again, is a step in favour of our government - extraordinary depreciation for the years 2022, 2023, extended the possibility of extraordinary depreciation on the assets included in the first and second depreciation groups, taken between 2022 and 2023. To help entrepreneurs again. Total amount around CZK 15 billion, significant aid. From other measures - end of electronic record of sales. I'm not getting a divorce here, we've been talking about it over and over again. The road tax has largely been abolished; for heavy vehicles, the rates have been reduced to those of the minimum pursuant to the Eurovineta Directive. Again, this helps provenly businessmen and small businessmen. These are the measures that, say, concern taxes, financial matters and this form of regulation or rules. Then I could name other things that we have done, which, once again, respond to what the tradesmen demanded and small entrepreneurs - simplification for the construction of renewable energy sources. This therefore applies to renewable sources up to 50 kWh. Amendments to laws, this is also an important, more transparent environment, changes to laws only twice a year, introduction of uniform data 1. 1. and 1. 7. for legislation relating to entrepreneurs, so that they can prepare well for it. Of course, this does not concern those laws which establish some form of aid to entrepreneurs, where it has logic to enter into force as quickly as possible, but for those where there are new obligations or rules, clearly twice a year. Single form database in one place. All forms in interactive form - again request made by the CFI implemented. Limiting statistical surveys is also important. And there's an increase in that threshold, annual turnover, so that we can understand when there's an obligation to report some things. Easier business start-up - here we have also made adjustments, we can then go back to them for example in more detail, but we have to say that we have modified the rules so that the start-up of the business is easier, and it is important that we motivate other people to want to become entrepreneurs. Simplifying the registration in the Commercial Register, facilitating the establishment and registration of limited liability companies. There is a better use or use of resources for electronic communication and identification, but it also includes a more effective process on the side of tradesmen's offices in relation to a businessman or businessman, once again a significant simplification. Simplifying grant programs. The project Czech Republic pays by card, without contact payment. The Enterprise 2021+ programme, which is the support of small rural outlets in municipalities up to thousands of inhabitants, is again clear support for businessmen and entrepreneurs. Then I could go on. Other ministries - here we have devoted a lot to things that are related, for example, to industry and trade and finance, but we take care to look for better conditions for businessmen, entrepreneurs and through other resorts. Of the things that people certainly feel positive about, I would mention the abolition of employers' obligation to provide periodic medical examinations for risky professions, so I could continue. I will conclude with this reminder of what our government has done specifically for self-employed people, also by recalling two anti-bureaucratic packages, both already approved by the government, and now we are discussing them into specific legislative measures. For the first package, some of these steps are already being implemented, and now we are working on the second anti-bureocratic package, and these are things that seem to be small, from the revision of electrical appliances to the abolition of medical food certificates. Some might smile about it, why you deal with such small things, but it does not smile about businessmen and self-employed people simply because there were a number of responsibilities, unnecessary burdens, no sense, no work to get rid of this senseless bureaucracy. We took the job, and that's how we helped them. [[10.20 hours]] So, to sum up: our government, during the year and a half, even in the difficult conditions that have been here, responded to what it has heard from businessmen and small entrepreneurs, made a number of measures to simplify their lives, reduced their overall tax burden, significantly reduced bureaucracy, removed all the unnecessary things that the businessmen have been struggling with, and that all of this means that we are simply creating significantly better conditions for businessmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs than they have had so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u34	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Madam President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u35	Thank you for the floor, Prime Minister. You're so convincing that - I'm not really smiling - I'm also reviewing the boiler, or what you said, of course, everything will help, but I'm not surprised. You wrote to me in that answer -- but of course it also has some time shift -- there was such a sentence that you were somehow thinking, now I left it on the table that you were wondering my interest in businessmen when we didn't do anything for them. And then you put in here two measures that actually worked out our government. The first one is my heart, and that's a flat-rate tax where... [[The Prime Minister's response.]] Yes, you supported it back then, too, but it was simply a proposal from the Ministry of Finance workshop that I was running at the time. It's really my heart thing, which you've really messed up with these three zones. I wouldn't look much like those three bands, because I was looking at the fact that you didn't get a lot of those flat-talk players in there. I think, I don't know, now I feel like three tens, but I'm not quite sure right now. So it was our flat-rate tax project, and there we motivated those who have - at that time it only concerned those who have income up to a million, the band remained there among the three zones - and there we motivated those who actually in the flat-rate that pays it was compounded: a hundred crown tax, a minimum social increase of 15 percent, precisely to have this positive motivation for higher pensions, and a minimum health. So it was a positive motivation that I understood and made sense to me. So I'm not going to start talking about these three bands right now, that's what we did here in the legislative process - I didn't agree to it, I made an amendment, I didn't pass - and it's not, Prime Minister, it's not a minimum of people. If I'm not mistaken, the flat-rate tax combined with that number that was already there and that just slightly increased is some 100,000 people who are only in that flat-rate tax. That means, these are people, there, I suppose, logically it will increase as well, because when you raise the social, it logically translates into the flat-rate tax, and they pay at least CZK 24,000 per year for social insurance. And I remember always having discussions in that last term, most often led by Minister Stanjura and I quite agreed with him then that you said, "Leave it to those people, leave it to them. They decided to go on a free-business trip. I'm having fun - I don't know - with beauticians, with hairdressers, with others, talking regularly with these businessmen about the opinions. They're not entitled to anything like employees, they've got to earn everything, they're doing their business, and they're counting on it when they decide to go down the lowest social path, that they're just gonna have a little pension someday, and they're gonna have to save money on it. So it seems to me that this view of this terrible care from the right-wing ODS really surprises me. At least he's surprised. Then you mentioned, Prime Minister, an increase in the VAT limit to $2 million. Yes, and the Minister admitted it when national legislation was discussed here, our government, the Ministry of Finance under... [[Member Munzar responds.]] Yes, you suggested it, Mr Munzar, through the Vice-President, you suggested it. I know you're volunteering to say it, I'll save you the time. We couldn't do it at the time, I'm saying it here for the 150th time. There is some European regulation, European regulation did not allow it. In our government, we have worked off the fact that the European regulation has shifted to the $2 million, but only since 2025. As Secretary of the Treasury, I asked for an exception. The exception was being processed sometimes when Minister Stanjura was already there, and on that basis he could come up with national legislation, which he did. We call it even, we also actively supported it here, and so, of course, the flat-rate tax could have shifted. So that was easy. Even though you suggested it here, we couldn't violate European law. So this is de facto, I'd say, with a common hand and several, rather the larger part of the work we've done definitely on it. Those are definite facts. And then we reduced VAT to a whole range of businesses. We did this because we introduced EET, and at first it was about catering services, accommodations, and we wanted to relieve them by being in the first wave, and then we did it because it was covid, and a whole range of trades where we could do it according to European regulation, and of course we were limited by it, so we tried to relieve them in the pogrom that hit them with covid to help them with the dépéháček. You're picking up now, so I think it's against interest. And I read it all the time, Mr. Kastner, his various conversations, what that means. We held a round table here - this is a member of the Presidium of the Association of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs - that it will basically be a liquidation for them. Now I've been to a beautiful event in Brno in Slavnik, you're also Brňák. There they organized the celebrations of the sea, so they also said that for them the 11 percent would basically be a huge blow, because this sector is affected in a short time by a series of circumstances and events several times. So I think it certainly doesn't compensate for the abolition of the road tax, which we call it, we voted in favour, but it concerns about 800,000 taxpayers. You were talking about a reduction in excise duty, a crown of fifty, with a crown of eighty dépéháček. It was supposed to be by the end of the year, but I think, on the contrary, that you are going to push forward in a very short period of time, that it will come back sooner, so on the contrary, it will reflect on prices, which has somehow not been positive again. It helped the carriers, that's what needs to be said here. Extraordinary depreciation - you continue our policy, you prolong. We welcome it, we raised our hand here for it. EET, I wouldn't brag about that. Most tradesmen do not support this. Perhaps some known group of you - I am not known - but associations, chambers, unions, businessmen you talk to, economists, say why? Why did the EET cancel? Why? Take a walk around Prague to the restaurants. How many more who have cash only? How much is going on? We talked about it today in the shadow government. We can hear it from all sides, how many different services are increasing, where it is manifesting itself. Why do you think? Why does it suddenly appear? And, of course, you're going to pay for it in a tax downturn. So it's nothing worth commendation here, and vice versa, most honest people didn't want it at all and didn't want it at all. And the other things - I'm not dropping anything. Shop 21 - Karel Havlíček's project, if I'm not mistaken. Shop 21, through Madam Vice-President, good thing you're doing this, perfect. That's good, because it was the support of small shops in small villages where they threatened to perish. And I'm not gonna mention the other things here, because I'm sure they won't feel it in everyday life. We've got a big debate on the tax package. I'm sure the arguments are going to be complex. Here I'm just responding to the fact that, let's face it, you promised - I remember, I put it on the networks recently, you were in some kind of conversation, Nova was, I guess - and there the editor asked you: You won't even raise the income tax? We won't. Prime Minister, no VAT? Not even VAT. Not even the tax? Not even that one. Not even here? Not even that one. How can you live with that? We didn't -- we didn't, Prime Minister! There's absolutely no way to talk out of this - and I use a polite word to talk out of it - you can't. And we can argue here, and you can convince us here, and even that tax quota-- well, because your inflation is making your GDP grow, that's the only reason why your GDP is growing, only because of inflation. I'm not going back to the debate. [[10.30 hours]] I don't think you've kept your promises, clearly you haven't made any savings yet on the expense side where you promised it to gros. So far, it's just the pensions that lie at the Constitutional Court, and of course, the next debate is now under way - now there's going to be a second reading where you continue, so that's the only savings so far. All the others are fictional. Let's see how this plays out in the budget. We'll see how the subsidies are written, how you talked about them. I don't want to open the subject now, because other colleagues have the right to interpelation, and we are 100% ahead of the hard debate, whether it's over the budget or the tax package. So I just think that you guys didn't keep that promise clearly here, that you didn't actually keep it to those you've always fought for in the past period, and I thought you were being honest about it. Apparently not. If so, Mr Adamč, through Madam Vice-President, come on to the microphone, or we'll tell each other afterwards, we can always say everything right, so let's not yell at each other. Thank you. I would like to propose a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with Prime Minister Petr Fiala's response to the interpelation, House Press 426, on increasing the taxes of businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u36	Thank you, too. Mr Munzar is still reporting for the debate. Before I give you my word, I would like to make one comment on the priority rights speech. I'll be handing over the meeting proceedings in a minute. According to Section 67, anyone who has the right of priority may come forward at any time, even during the vote, so just to clarify what happened here before. Even before the vote, even during the vote, the President may, in effect, give the floor to whoever has the right of priority whenever he so requests. This is my comment on the previous situation in order to avoid any possible discussions. Thank you for understanding. I have a message to make. Mr Tomáš Helebrant votes with a replacement card 38 and Minister Stanjura with a replacement card number 27. Thank you. I'm handing over the meeting management. [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] You have a de facto? I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u37	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President, for this clarification in relation to priority rights. Thank you so much for that. I'm not being ironic right now. It happened to me several times that I wanted to speak before the vote, and I was prevented from having another governing meeting with reference to the need to vote. So maybe we'll talk about it again on the grémium, and it'll be clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u38	Yes, I don't think we have to deal with this here, I just wanted to point it out. That's what the Rules of Procedure say. Mr Munzar has the floor now. In fact, Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u39	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I wanted to apologize to Mrs Schillerová. I didn't yell at her, it just came out of me, because when I remembered who was being honest and how he turned out, I think we're somewhere else today. Thank you for your attention, and I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u40	Yes, thank you. I think it was a gentleman's statement. Finally, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u41	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Hello, colleagues, and I would like to respond to President Schillerová, through you. She actually estimated it well what I'm applying for. I keep repeating one thing that needs to be done here. It's the phrase "we did the most for it." So just to remind you, in 2019, when the press was discussing the 509, tax package, here I submitted a proposal to increase the VAT registration limit to 2 million, and then five more times. That means six times in the past period, and it hasn't been since the New Year, there have been variations. There were variations that allowed for the extension of the period in order to allow for the exemption. Yet there has always been a negative position by the then Minister of Finance. You didn't even vote in 2019 for the accompanying resolution, which was supposed to call on the government to start discussing the exemption. So it may not have been directly introduced into the law, but you didn't vote for the accompanying resolution either. Then you're telling us that you did the most for it. Yes, I admit that we convinced you in those debates that you then took a positive position and sent a request for an exception. We even gave you instructions on how to do it before, but you didn't reflect on it. I'm glad you did it at the end of your term, but please don't say the sentence "we did the most for it here." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u42	I wish you a good day. We'll continue the debate. I'm looking around to see if anyone else is joining the debate. I see no one, so I am done with the debate. Since the resolution has been proposed, I am gonging to my colleagues in the lobby. The resolution proposed by President Schillerová is that "The Chamber of Deputies does not agree with Prime Minister Petr Fiala's reply." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 384, 122 Members of Parliament signed in for 50, versus 58. The motion was not accepted. Before I open another interview, I would like to apologize: Vice-President Bartošek apologizes from 14:00 for working reasons, Mr Benešík Ondřej from 10.20 to 10.45 for no reason, Mr Bernard Josef from 9.45 for work reasons, Mr Dufek Aleš from 9 to 10 hours for work reasons, Mr Jakob Jan from 10.40 to 11.15 for work reasons, Mr Klíma Pavel takes back his apology, Mrs Mr Mr Mr Mr Mračková Vildumetzová from 14.30 for family reasons, Mr. Richter Jan for the whole day of the hearing for working reasons. I'm now opening another interpellation. Prime Minister Petr Fiala responded to Mrs Alena Schillerová's interview on the lack of antibiotics in the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 427. The discussion of this reply was suspended on 1 June 2023 until the presence of the Prime Minister. We are therefore continuing the interrupted debate. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for this debate? prosit, Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u43	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, today it has come to my attention that I have interpelations, but they are all roughly from the end of March, this particular one is from March 30, 2023. I'll take the liberty of reading it. I'm afraid I have to say here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u44	Yes, I understand, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, please keep the room down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u45	I'm afraid I have to say here that there hasn't been a big shift. That's why I turned to you because I think you should address the issue. [[10.40 hours]] The Czech Republic is going through the biggest blackout of antibiotics in its history. Although the situation began to be unsustainable in the autumn of last year and the Ministry of Health repeatedly promised correction, unfortunately there is an increase in the lack of medicines, which has already spread from pharmacies to hospitals. The information we're getting these days is really alarming. It is no longer a cure for fever or eye drops, but a chronic deficiency of penicillin in all its forms - both in the form of tablets and syrups and in the injection form in which it is administered in hospitals. More and more hospitals admit that they cease to be able to receive new patients to inject penicillin. I find it absolutely shocking that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is making the problem easier or even denying it. This is at a time when, according to the State Health Institute, the number of diseases caused by streptococcal anginas and sleeps, which are treated with penicillin, is a significant threat to the health of the population. No less serious is the fact that the availability of penicillin, according to doctors, leads to the use of less appropriate broad-spectrum antibiotics and the deepening of bacterial resistance problems. According to world data, antibiotic-resistant bacteria are among the most common causes of death. Unfortunately, even Czech doctors now have a very serious reason to fear the spread of resistant bacteria, precisely as a result of the prescription of inappropriate antibiotics accelerating the emergence of resistance. After half a year of penicillin deficiency, the legitimate question is whether the Minister of Health, who still denies the problem, is even capable of its effective solution? We believe it isn't. Prime Minister, please consider convening a special health condition to address the causes of the current drug crisis, high illness, reduced antibiotic effectiveness and their lack of association. According to the information provided by the medical authorities, with whom I have had the opportunity to speak because I am not an expert in this area, it is high time to start addressing this area, not only the lack of antibiotics, but also the causes of their rapid increased need and how to prevent it. I repeat, I administered this interpellation on March 30, 2023. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u46	Thank you and I will now ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala to come to the counter. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u47	Madam President, this is certainly a problem, no one is questioning it and there is a need to talk about it. What is important to say is that our government does not underestimate it, nor does it close its eyes, but we have been actively dealing with it from the outset. To put it in some general context, it is also necessary to say, do not miss the medicines that are produced in the Czech Republic. There are no drugs that are being imported, not even from Europe, but usually from other countries. The second thing to say is that there are no drugs missing in the Czech Republic. The problem with drug shortages is solved by the whole of Europe, even not just Europe, and it has a number of causes that the professional community has quite clearly defined. There are also causes that cannot be fully resolved in the short term, this is a need for dependence on suppliers from abroad. It has causes that are likely to go away in the short term in the medium term, it is an increased consumption of drugs in the context of post-covid situation, and increased consumption of drugs, again, not in the Czech Republic - there too, but in Europe, even globally. And all of this must be taken into account when we talk about what we're capable of doing and how quickly we're able to do it. Perhaps, in general, about the interpelations - it sounds like: we filed this interpelation on 30 March, and now it's June. Yes, sometimes it is delayed by the fact that the member of the government is not there, but often it is simply that the interpelation is given, then there is some time to reply, then there will be a written answer. The Member will say: I do not agree with this, it will be included, and it is a bit late after all. So we're still not dealing with this interpellation with as much delay as it ever does. But most importantly, we've been actively dealing with this situation from the very beginning. Let me just remind you what we've done, what we've done, what we've done, and how the situation's eased. In total, we have secured nearly 400,000 packages of antibiotics beyond - beyond! - standard deliveries. Already last year we pushed through the amendment, which shows that the problem was not underestimated, which enabled the government to approve the payment of extra-supplied medicines, and we did this repeatedly, we took advantage of this option and provided citizens with more than 140 000 packages of emergency supplies of medicines from other Member States, and we provided them with, and that is also important, health insurance. I have some examples here, but I don't think there's a need for the unprofessional public, which I also belong to, to list the specific drugs and substances here. More than 240,000 packs of eight types of antibiotics containing medicinal products were delivered to the Czech Republic before the originally scheduled dates - 240,000 and previously 140,000 packs of emergency doses of medicinal products of other Member States, thanks to the active approach of the competent authorities and the synergies of marketing authorisation holders. The last such example is that it was possible to speed up the delivery of penicillin syrup for the smallest children. If anyone claims or would argue that the extra 400,000 packages do not mean anything, I would point out that this amount covered an extremely critical period between standard deliveries and thus significantly helped patients. And let's just imagine what it would look like if we really didn't do anything, if we just let the situation go on its own, we wouldn't have these quantities of packaging in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Health uses all the options, all the legal institutes it has to ensure the availability of medicines, whether it is a specific treatment program, allowing the distribution and distribution of unregistered medicinal products, restrictions on reexport and other things. Since December, a working group has been meeting at the Ministry of Health. He's practically monitoring the situation on the drug market every day. He regularly sends - this is also important - up-to-date information on the availability of medicines to representatives of practitioners for adults and practitioners for children and adolescents. In the working group, not only representatives of the Ministry of Health, but also the State Office for Drug Control, the President of the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, representatives of drug distributors, the Director of the State Health Institute and others and other people who regularly deal with this situation and deal with it together. This is about the short-term measures and the steps we're doing on a daily basis. [[10.50 hours]] Then there are things that could prevent the situation from happening in the future so that we do not face such problems in the future, and this is an amendment that will still be submitted to the Chamber of Deputies during the summer. This will introduce the obligation of manufacturers to supply one or two more months after the failure has been reported, distributors will be obliged to inform about how many inadequate medicines and medicines are in stock, to ban the advantage of anyone in the distribution of medicines, the reserve supply system. If the Ministry of Health concludes that the planned volume of supply on the market does not correspond to the predicted need for a medicinal product, it will include it in the reserve supply system, that is, each distributor will create a supply corresponding to monthly deliveries to pharmacies or abroad. I think this is an amendment that is basically the most propatient measure in years. Yeah, it's an intervention into a system that's been kind of self-contained so far, without major state interference. There is some regulation going on here, but it is regulation that I think is appropriate because it is based on practice, based on the negative experience of what is happening at the time of the crisis, and quite reasonably sets some rules that will increase the resistance of the Czech pharmaceutical market to large-scale failures. In this case, I would ask the opposition for cooperation, because I think it is a novel which is definitely needed and good, I have described it here, and it is the concrete step that we can take together to prevent similar situations from happening preventively in the future. But what is important is that we have been responding to this situation from the outset, that we have secured 400,000 extra supply of antibiotics. What is also positive is that the demand for antibiotics is falling slightly. The situation in the field of tablets has improved, supplies are stabilized, where the situation should improve significantly quickly. For syrups, the situation is worse, but even here, extraordinary deliveries are coming, and even this should bring the situation back to normal in a short time. But we just can't accept that, and we have to learn from it, and that's why we're coming up with this novel the way I described it here. Otherwise, I don't leave the situation to the Minister of Health, I'm also actively involved. I visited pharmaceutical companies in the Czech Republic, I talked to them about the possibility of increasing their production, but this is not a key solution, because the problem is not in the Czech Republic and our drug producers, but it was still interesting because it is, for example, how we will work in the future in Europe with effective substances, who will produce them, who will supply them to us, who we will depend on. I also met with representatives of the pharmaceutical academic community, faculties, representatives of pharmaceutical companies. We talked about the possibility of strengthening our autonomy of drugs, strengthening the production of drugs in the Czech Republic, including active substances in the future, what needs to be done for this, how we should develop the education of pharmaceuticals and building and other and other things, so those steps that we want to take - medium and long term - are clear. [[pharmaceutical?]] We have taken short-term steps and we must believe that the situation not only in the Czech Republic, but mainly in the overall European market and globally stabilises so that all our patients will have all the medicines they need in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u48	Thank you and I have two factual points here. First Mr Mašek came forward, then Mr Fifka came forward. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u49	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, a brief recap. The drug problem showed up in the summer of 2022. This was pointed out in advance by renowned experts such as Prymula, Chlíbek, who said that a large wave of respiratory diseases, influenza, and so on, as it turns out, no one responded. We met with a big problem - Christmas 2022, there was no reaction, Prime Minister, which came only January 2023, when you were dealing with Mr Válek, with distributors and drug manufacturers. There was also a problem that the reaction came very late and it didn't catch this flu epidemic period. In doing so, he left us with an omicron, which was very lucky, and maybe we were just surprised that the flu came a little earlier. The issue of redistributing drugs was dealt with by Adam Vojtěch. There we took the appropriate steps and perhaps the situation after the covido around the world, counted with the redistribution of the drugs that took place here, put us in a worse position than we were, compared to the whole of Europe, so we went shopping outside. So the reaction was really there from your government, but as usual, it was late and inadequate, as I would recall, the reaction to energy, when it was too late and unnecessarily high, something like that was with medication. The fact that we brought in a few hundred thousand packages is just a statement that something went well, but it's not a system thing. Of course, we will also support you under this law, because it is necessary and necessary for citizens of the Czech Republic. So I guess you'll have our support there, but your government missed it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u50	Thank you for keeping time. Another with a point of fact - Mr Fifka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add one more detail. I would like to respond to my previous speaker by saying that neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister manufactures drugs, manufactures them, and if anyone is to be criticized for not predicting an elevated wave of especially respiratory and streptococcal infections in time, so maybe the planners, because with deep knowledge of how pharmaceutical business works, there is planning for a year in advance production, and at this point we can be really glad that we managed to get those antibiotics for at least some of the most specific conditions. [[♪ oh, oh, ……]] But to look into the future, it is much more important that we start seriously discussing the amendment of the law we are preparing in the coming days. One of the things that this unfortunate experience has shown, among other things, is that the Czech Republic did not have the leverage to act as an authority with producers. Just if the manufacturer announced that he didn't, at that point there was nothing left but negotiating, looking for alternative sources, and that was one of the reasons for the situation. The situation on the drug market is very complicated worldwide and Europe-wide. Traditional supply chains have been disrupted. We are dependent on Asian countries, especially China, in the supply of active substances. Production as such, when a larger wave comes, such as the production of antibiotics, the producers were unable to meet the increased demand. So what we need now is to sit down together and think about the amendment to the law, which, among other things, is to bring some kind of security stock in case of seasonal fluctuations, to bring certain sanctions on producers who ignore the deliveries that have been planned and negotiated, and I would like to ask you to talk seriously about it when it comes on the show. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u52	Thank you. Mr Farhan is now on the verdict and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u53	Madam President, Prime Minister, I am only taking the liberty of reacting briefly. I have previously applied to the general debate because I think that this is an important issue and is a big one. For me, I would like to respond here to the Prime Minister in the sense of his sentence: If we weren't doing anything, can you imagine what it would look like? That's just shocking information for me, because I can't imagine the executives, the health minister and the prime minister of this country doing anything that anyone can even think about! [[11.00 hours]] I'm just going to briefly comment on the 140,000 packages. For proboha's sakes, 140,000 packages - we asked Minister Válek, who, all the time since December, had noticed when this was presented in the press, promised to tell us how many packages he had delivered and told us about five weeks ago. That's one pack for one pharmacy every third day. If one pack per pharmacy covers consumption in the Czech Republic every third day or in some way moves us, I don't think so. "We ordered and negotiated another 400,000 packages over what pharmaceutical companies were planning." I'm very surprised that pharmaceutical companies are giving their plans and how much they're bringing in. That's nonsense from my point of view, too. As for the novel itself, we are glad that the novel is on the table. From our point of view, at this point, it's not completely refined, it's missing, it doesn't even talk about free-selling drugs. It doesn't solve the security stock for one to two months, which my colleague Fifka mentioned here, will not solve the situation either. So I'm looking forward to the debate that's gonna be waiting for us at first, second and third reading, and we're gonna see how this law goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u54	Thank you, and given that the time grants for written interpelation have been exhausted, I have to stop discussing this interpelation and we have to leave it for next time. It is 11 o'clock, now we should look at the fixed points: paragraph 140, proposal for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies; paragraph 141, House document 2717, determination of the amount of remuneration to members of the Board of Auditors of the Czech Technical Agency for the year 2022; paragraph 142, House press 442, amendment to the Health Rescue Service Act, first reading, and paragraph 127, House press 411, summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2022. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss further points according to the approved agenda. I would remind you that in the afternoon, we will address paragraph 137, which is oral questioning, and the 65th meeting will be closed after it is completed. I would also like to remind you that the 66th session of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 9 o'clock on Friday, 16 June, and the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened five minutes after the end. So before I open the first point, item 140, let me just do a few more organizational things. Mr Helebrant cancels the replacement card, he will now vote with his proper card, and Mr Bernard pointed out that he only apologized until 10:30 and is already present in the hall. Any Members' speeches to change the programme approved by the 65th meeting - I ask if anyone is interested in speaking? Yes, please, Chairman Cogan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u55	Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would like to propose, according to development, to include a law from the second reading block on the agenda - a government bill amending Act No. 262/2000 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, Parliament's Press 423, so I would like to put it on the agenda first and then place it on the third point of today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u56	Yes, thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the agenda? Yes, Madam President, I presume you will comment on the veto on this law. [[President Schiller: Hold still.]] Just to remind you, the classification of this law was vetoed by two MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u57	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Since there has been an agreement with five coalitions and representatives of both the YES and the SPD movement on this press, there will be an amendment, which will withdraw our complaints, complaints about this law concerning health agreements, will straighten and correct, so on behalf of the ANO club and the SPD club after agreement, I withdraw the veto so that this press can be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u58	Thank you, therefore this item is voteable. So, I'm just gonna go ahead and ask if anyone else on the motion for a meeting? Yes, please, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I'm aware of the interest in the check-out, I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your ID cards. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u59	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, I will also ask, on the basis of an agreement with all the presidents of the MPs, to include the law from the first reading block at 12.45 today, and this is the Government's proposal for a Health Rescue Act, House Press 442. Once again, the House's press will include 442 on the agenda and today will be a firm discussion at 12.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-001-136.u60	Thank you. Anyone else interested in a performance on the draft program? If that's not the case, I think I've already gonged ahead. So first of all, you will vote on the inclusion of a new point, which is the Labour Code, of the 423 House Press. We must first decide on the inclusion of this point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 385, registered by 131 Members and Members, for 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the inclusion of this point as a third point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 386, enlisted 132 Members and Members, for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another proposal was a firm inclusion today in 12.45 of the Parliament's press 442, the medical rescue service. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 387, 133 Members and Members signed in, for 133, against no one. The motion was accepted. So now we can look at the point number
