ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u1	98. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence /public press 462/ - first reading Just for the record, I say that I am registering a number of priority rights here, but none of them say that this should be a speech before the debate is opened, i.e. priority rights will be given the floor only after the debate is opened. And I ask that the motion put forward by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a proposal to give your consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on defence cooperation signed in Washington on 23 May 2023. At a time when brutal Russian military aggression is still taking place near our borders, it is in the security interest of the Czech Republic to deepen defensive cooperation with the United States of America. The United States is our most important ally, which guarantees the defense of our country and the entire North Atlantic Alliance. Therefore, the Czech Republic welcomed the proposal of the United States to negotiate an agreement on defence cooperation, commonly called the DCA, which would regulate the legal status of members of the United States armed forces in the territory of the Czech Republic. The agreement does not give the armed forces of the United States of America the right to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. Their stay must always be approved by the Government or Parliament of the Czech Republic in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution. If the U.S. Armed Forces are approved in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution, the legal status of the U.S. soldiers will then be governed by an agreement. The concrete activities of the U.S. Armed Forces during their stay in the Czech Republic will always be carried out on the basis of an agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States. The negotiation of the text of the agreement included four rounds of negotiations involving negotiating teams of the Czech Republic and the United States and a number of other partial negotiations on specific issues. The Czech negotiating team was composed of experts on individual thematic areas of the agreement from the ministries of defence, foreign affairs, justice, finance, interior and transport. Partial matters have also been discussed as necessary with experts from other ministries and offices. The agreement will allow more intensive practical cooperation between the Czech and American armed forces, especially in connection with the defence of the Eastern wing of the North Atlantic Alliance, logistical support of allied military activities, strengthening military infrastructure, increasing the interoperability of our armed forces, military education and, last but not least, joint training and training. In view of the nature of the commitments made by the Czech Republic in the agreement, it is necessary for both chambers of Parliament to give their consent to its ratification in accordance with Article 49 of the Constitution, which will then be carried out by the President of the Republic. The Agreement will be implemented primarily in the Gesture of the Ministry of Defence, which will be its implementing body and will coordinate both cooperation with the US Party and synergies with other ministries and central administrations whose competence is affected by the Agreement. Similar treaties have the United States of America negotiated with 24 NATO Member States. All NATO Member States on the eastern border have already agreed on such a treaty. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland. Hungary already in 2019. - I doubt Mr. Tomio Okamura would have said he was acting like a Biľak about Viktor Orbán. - Romania, Bulgaria, Norway and, for the last time, Slovakia, which negotiated the contract at the beginning of 2022. Currently, the United States of America is still negotiating with Denmark, Finland and Sweden, although Sweden, as we know, is not yet a member of NATO. [[21.50 hours]] Allow me to recapitulate a few milestones in that timetable when negotiating and negotiating DCAs: On 1 April 2022, the Ministry of Defence Ministry received the opening proposal from the US Party. On 25 May 2022, the Government adopted Resolution No. 443/V has approved the DCA negotiating directive. On 9 and 10 June 2022, the first round of negations on DCA took place with the participation of both negotiating teams in Prague. On 16 August, I informed the government about the status of the DCA's negation. In September, the second round of negations took place with the participation of both negotiating teams again in Prague. On 27 October, the Government approved the amendment of the directive on DCAs by Resolution No. 902/V. On 2 November 2022, a presentation of the status of the DCA negotiations took place before the Members and the Senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. These were specifically members of the Defence Committee, the Security Committee and the Foreign Committee. They were Members and Senators, the Senate has one committee. - I believe that Mr Kobza attended the meeting during the SPD. - 3rd and 4th November, the third round of the DCA negation took place with the participation of both negotiating teams in Prague. On 5 January 2023, the fourth round of negation took place with the participation of both negotiating teams. On 10 February, all parts of the DCA text have been negotiated. On 3 to 10 March, an interim review procedure was held for the proposal to negotiate the DCA. 10 March 2023 - discussion of the results of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and settlement of comments with the participation of representatives of the departments concerned. On 12 April 2023, the language control of the Czech and American parties and the resulting amendments to the text were completed, so that both parties would agree on this. On the same day, on 12 April, I introduced the members of the opposition parties from both the ANO and then the SPD colleagues, I informed them of the current, last text of the DCA. They had the opportunity and were offered an offer to hold another meeting, where representatives of individual resorts would be directly involved, so that they could invite their experts to this meeting as well. That's what happened, that's what happened. I think I have also felt the feeling of these negotiations with colleagues from the opposition, both with Mr Vích and especially with colleagues from the ANO movement - I thank Mrs Schillerová and her colleagues, President Babiš, once again for the very helpful comments - that they really had great interest and great will to get to know this information in more detail. Following this meeting, we made a proposal to the Government, namely on 26 April 2023, when the Government approved the proposal to negotiate the DCA by Resolution No. 294 of 26 April 2023. On the same day the government approved this contract, the full text of this contract appeared on the Ministry of Defence's website immediately and was available to anyone who wanted to read the contract. The contract was signed in Washington, D.C., May 23rd, and I signed it for the Czech side, and it was signed by Secretary of Defense Austin for the American side. On 2 June 2023, the material was delivered to both Parliament's chambers and registered as House press 462 and Senate press 108. On 20 June 2023, the DCA discussed the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security of the Senate and recommended it for approval. Ladies and gentlemen, since there have been, more or less, eight hours of discussion here, which has partly touched on some of the things relating to this treaty, let me make a few comments. There was a referendum. There is no known case, colleagues, where the DCA would be approved by a referendum in one of NATO Member States. As DCAs do not take the form of contracts for entry into an international organisation or a joint defence obligation, they are approved by the States as fully normal international agreements for the legal status of members of the foreign armed forces. They didn't even have a referendum in Hungary. About what was said here, especially from the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura. You know, I took the job, and I found two rather interesting prints that I'd like to draw your attention to. It is one press from July 9, 2015, namely resolution 835, and the other press is from September 29, 2020, and the resolution has number 1247. In both of these cases, colleagues and colleagues, this is a proposal to extend the duration of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic. And to my great surprise, after the strong words of Tomio Okamura, which sounded here, and I wrote it right here with the quote that "not foreign bases and soldiers on our territory" - so maybe Mr Okamura doesn't remember it, but I don't think that our House of Deputies system can be questioned, the votes taken into this system are in ancient history. So if you look at the vote at the 263th meeting of July 9, 2015, it was the vote that took place at 19.09 and I was then rapporteur for the proposal, then imagine that the then unattached Member - because after he blew out the Dawn, he said goodbye to his colleagues and became an unattached Member - so Mr Tomio Okamura voted in favour. [[right: vote 263 at the 29th meeting]] Mr Tomio Okamura voted to stay - stay! - British soldiers in the territory of the Czech Republic and have even agreed to extend the time of the British military advisory and training team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic in the number of 30 people with the estimated time of stay - guess what? Five years! From 10 October 2015. At the same time, Mr Tomio Okamura has agreed to stay as members of the armed forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, the European Union and the States participating in the Partnership for Peace programme up to 100 persons in a single course in the Czech Republic for their participation in training courses organised by the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic since 10 October 2015. [[2.00 hours]] Apart from Mr Okamura, his non-inclusions were voted in favour of this resolution by his colleagues Mr Karel Pražák, Milan Šarapatka from Úsvit, Mrs Jana Hnyková, Augustin Karel Andrle, Jaroslav Holík, Marek Černoch, Karel Fiedler, Martin Lang, Olga Havlová and Jiří Štětina. Let me draw your attention to the second resolution, as I said, resolution 1247, where again the Chamber of Deputies discussed a proposal to extend the time of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic, House press 782. In this case, too, the Chamber of Deputies agreed to extend the duration of the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic in the territory of the Czech Republic in the number of up to 30 persons with an estimated stay period of five years, starting on 10 October 2020. This team therefore has a mandate by 2025. I was rapporteur for the resolution, and I think we remember it quite accurately. Well, as I was telling you earlier, guess who voted for British soldiers and not just British soldiers? Since this is the residence of members of the armed forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and of the European Union, the States participating in the Partnership for Peace Programme, the Republic of Kosovo - Mr Foldyno, imagine the Republic of Kosovo, and voted in favour of this by your President - the Republic of Jordan and the State of Libya in order to participate in training courses organised by the British Military Advisory and Training Team in the Czech Republic, with the number of members of the armed forces of those States seconded to training courses not exceeding 100 persons in a single course at any time. These are the facts, please. Facts traceable, facts I can give you at your disposal. And if any of you are interested in how who voted on this proposal, I will read it to you in a little while. The SPD voted in favour of 15 Members. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák, Mrs Monika Jarošová, Mr Radek Rozvoral, Mr Pavel Jelínek, Mrs Karla Maříková, Mrs Lucie Šafránková, Mr Jiří Kobza, Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Jiří Kohoutek, Mr Zdeněk Podal, Mr Radovan Vích, Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Mr Radek Koten and Mr Miloslav Rozner. They all voted yes. So I'm asking, colleagues, what were you going to say for four hours? Did you want to tell us that the SPD movement, or Dawn or whatever your name was, will never support some American soldier's stay? Mr Okamura, through the Vice-President, are you biased towards the Američan? That the Brit don't mind and the Američan bother you? Is there any historical connection that matters to you? You know, it seems at least hypocritical to me from you - and I thank the ANO representatives once again, I know they're gonna grill me, they're gonna ask me questions - but that you're actually gonna use that time to repeat the sentences of the referendum here as a roundabout, and that the SPD will never agree to the stay of any soldiers, and yet that history doesn't lie, and it's quite obvious that you voted for it, that you even voted for it in the same lineup as you do today. So, once again, in conclusion, I thank all my colleagues, colleagues, who see this Treaty as the treaty that is needed. The negotiating team really tried to negotiate the best possible way for the contract to be advantageous. We managed to get things out there that aren't really in other contracts, and I thank those people for that. And thank you in advance to all those who will not discuss this point and who will, of course, ask questions that I am prepared to answer, but will not make this comedy that you, colleagues from the SPD, have been doing for four hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u3	The rapporteur will now speak for the first reading of Marek Ženíšek. I note factual points, but since the debate is not open, it is not possible to report with factual remarks. Real remarks serve as a response to an ongoing debate that is not open. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to summarize this essential of the Government's proposal to agree to ratify the Agreement of the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence. As has already been said here, the agreement is a bilateral international treaty, the purpose of which is to regulate various areas of residence and the fulfilment of the obligations of United States armed forces in the Czech Republic in case they perform any tasks in the Czech Republic. The purpose and purpose of the government proposal is to prepare conditions, in particular legal and technical, for the possible operation of US soldiers in the Czech Republic. This is primarily a so-called status bilateral international treaty. The text of the agreement itself was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 26 April 2023 and the signing of the contract took place on 23 May this year. The treaty complements the multilateral agreement of the so-called NATO SOFA of 1951, to which the Czech Republic acceded after joining NATO, and thus has been valid for almost 23 years. The agreement regulates those areas which NATO SOFA does not pursue, and it also elaborates or specifies a number of areas which, although contained in NATO SOFA, are not sufficiently detailed, unambiguously or intelligible. NATO, in all its defence plans and concepts, envisages the prominent role of American soldiers in common defence. And it is probably worth recalling that, in the presence of US armed forces in Europe, the security of the Alliance has been founded from the very beginning, and that is why this treaty is also an important prerequisite for strengthening defensive cooperation with the United States of America. It is also worth recalling that the agreement itself does not refer to any particular form of cooperation between American and Czech soldiers or any particular American military presence. The agreement itself does not confer on American soldiers the right to reside in the Czech Republic and, as already mentioned, their stay must always be approved in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Similarly, the contract does not automatically allow the American forces or the US side to build buildings in Czech military facilities and bases, the contract merely regulates what such a situation would look like if the Czech and American parties agreed on it, and subsequently in Annex A to this Treaty determines the facilities and premises that could be used in case of carrying out tasks in the territory of the Czech Republic, while the very introduction of the site in the annex does not automatically mean access to the armed forces of the United States of America. The specific uses and conditions will always be agreed between the Contracting Parties, i.e. the Czech Republic and the United States. [[22.10 hours]] The text of the Agreement is very detailed and, in particular, in 30 articles, governs access and use of agreed facilities and premises in the territory of the Czech Republic, jurisdiction over members of the United States of America's armed forces, exemption from customs duties and taxes or the status of suppliers or, for example, logistical support. It is probably worth recalling that already today some Czech air bases, such as Čáslav or Náměšť, are declared as alliance air bases and at most of the places listed in the Annex And this treaty is already under way in cooperation with foreign armed forces. They are also locations for providing support to alliance forces. As far as criminal jurisdiction is concerned, the basic rules relating to criminal jurisdiction are regulated by the NATO SOFA Treaty already mentioned. This agreement does not change these matters radically and only explains or refines. Finally, I would like to remind myself that the defence cooperation agreement currently has some form of 24 NATO countries. So it can be said that the Czech government really had the opportunity to compare and even more thorough preparations compared to other countries. Furthermore, Denmark and Finland are currently negotiating this agreement, and so are Sweden, although it is not a member - yet - of the Alliance. The Czech Republic is the only NATO Member State in Central and Eastern Europe that does not yet have a bilateral agreement on defence cooperation with the United States of America, even though the Czech Republic plays a key role in the movement of allied units, equipment and material around Europe for the purpose of collective defence due to its geographical location. The Agreement will enter into force for the Czech Republic on the 30th day following the exchange of written notifications between the Contracting Parties, on the date of the later notification informing the Contracting Parties that each of them has fulfilled their national procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u5	Thank you, too. So I am now opening up a general debate in which I am registering five applications with priority rights. President Tomio Okamura will be the first to speak, then President Radim Fiala, then President Alena Schillerová and others. Prime Minister Okamura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here in the House a point that is an agreement with the United States of America on cooperation in defence, approved by the government of Petr Fiala from ODS on 26 April and subsequently signed by the Secretary of Defense Černochová from the ODS in the USA, and now the House should approve this agreement. For the SPD movement, I will point out at the outset that the SPD says a clear no! American soldiers and foreign bases in the Czech Republic and we will vote against this agreement. And I have noticed that the SPD is the only party in Parliament to vote against, as according to the President of the ANO Alena Schillerová Group, the majority of the members of the YES will vote in favour of this agreement. So the SPD is the only party in Parliament to vote against, against US bases, against foreign bases in the Czech Republic. The SPD movement is therefore the only opposition party against the government coalition in this matter. And I would like to start with a motion to reject this agreement between the Czech Republic and the USA at first reading, so my proposal would therefore be voted on immediately after the debate. We believe that the Government should put a referendum on this question. The SPD referendum law, which allows such a referendum, has already been submitted to the House and is waiting for discussion here. Fialův's five-calice government is blocking our referendum. The treaty with the US is not a cooperation agreement, but a treaty for the future military presence of the US in the Czech Republic, which allows the armed forces of the USA to use 11 military spaces and buildings at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov. They will also be able to use army training premises Hradiště, Libá, Boletice, Březina and use barracks in Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav. In all these locations, the US can build its own buildings, including food stores, open catering facilities, banking services, social, educational centers and so on. In the event of the approval of this Treaty, they will be able to move freely in the Czech Republic and operate the armed forces of the USA, including family members. The Fialův Government agreement favored US military personnel to the level of diplomatic missions. This agreement introduces a free mode of arrivals, departures, the introduction of any movable items and the storage of weapons and ammunition into these premises, without the possibility of controls by the Czech Republic. De facto it will be a similar principle as applied to the territory of the embassy. So we can't go in, we don't know who's in there, what's stored there, and we don't know what's going on here. In addition to ensuring discipline and order in the case of protests against US armed forces in the Czech Republic, it can be used to deploy outside these 11 locations anywhere in the Czech Republic. The agreement is even concluded for 10 years when it cannot be terminated. This agreement is unilaterally disadvantageous for the Czech Republic. It does not give similar rights to Czech soldiers, their family members or other civilians in the territory of the United States of America. The name of the entire agreement assumes defence cooperation, but the content of the agreement is one-sided, for the USA a favourable adjustment of the stay of their troops in the territory of the Czech Republic for at least 10 years. Even the number of U.S. Armed Forces in the Czech Republic is not limited. The Secretary of Defense repeatedly assures that the presence of the US Armed Forces under this Agreement will be subject to Parliament's approval. When I look at the agreement itself, I don't see anything about delaying the application of the agreement. The Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following the exchange of notes that each Contracting Party has fulfilled its national procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. Then everything that's written in it is automatically valid. No delay. There is an enormous risk that, after ratification, the government will quietly allow the US to proceed according to the agreement, and there will be no further approval for Parliament. At the most, the government will give formal approval, or it will proceed directly according to the agreement - automatically with the US armed forces, which will already be here so-called for exercise. It is not enough verbal assurances from the secretary of Mrs Černochová or other members of the five-calice. It must be written directly into the agreement that this does not allow the possibility to proceed directly under the agreement, but that prior to the application of this agreement on the territory of the Czech Republic the agreement of both chambers of Parliament will have to be requested. It is also extremely disadvantageous for the Czech Republic to bring the agreement to no court - neither national nor international. This passage should be changed and, above all, it is necessary to change the negotiation period from unaccountable 10 years to the possibility of termination within a period of months, otherwise this agreement obliges several other governments, even those who come after this government. This agreement also needs to be seen in the context of the Government proposed by the Constitution amendment, namely Art. 43 constitutions that concern the defense of our state. The SPD movement has filed a motion for rejection in the House and is now suspended in the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House. I will remind you what the contents of this government proposed amendment to the Constitution are. Currently, the Government decides to deploy the armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of the Czech Republic and to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic without Parliament's approval for a maximum period of 60 days if: (a) fulfilling the obligations of international treaties on joint defence against assault; (b) participating in peace operations under the decision of the international organisation to which the Czech Republic is a member, with the agreement of the receiving State; and (c) participating in rescue work in natural disasters, industrial or environmental accidents. And now the government wants to insert a sentence into the Constitution: (d) protection of life and health, threats to property values or the security of the Czech Republic. And it is clear that in interpreting the words'security threat', looking at the behaviour of the Fialův government, there is basically everything to be hidden underneath. [[22.20 hours]] Since this is an agreement that limits the powers of the Czech authorities pursuant to Art. 10a of the Constitution, that is to say, limitation of jurisdiction, abolition of countersignation of the Czech Republic by order to enter foreign troops, elimination of the court in dispute settlement, so I take the view that the agreement should be approved preferably by three fifths of the votes of Members, and not only by an absolute majority. In its resolution of 26 April 2023 of the Government of the Czech Republic, this decision on the ratification of the Defence Agreement with the USA is still not admissible and logically justified. The justification was delegated to Defense Minister Černochová, who can never represent the ten-million-dollar Republic on such a crucial issue. And a lot of angry citizens are telling us that they don't want any foreign bases here. And I agree with them. I therefore take the view that, in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Constitution of the Czech Republic to the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, citizens should express their vote in a national referendum under the relevant law. That is why I am asking you to support our referendum law in its deliberations in the House. Defense Secretary Černochová of the ODS claims that the treaty does not impose any claims on US law in our country. Unless, of course, we want American troops here, the deal is useless. It is clear to everyone that the treaty is the basis for future bases in our Republic and for the future presence of American soldiers in our Republic. Minister Černochová further claims that Parliament is an insurance policy that can prevent the entry and permanent presence of US troops on our territory - nonsense, because the current government majority is voting without the mandate of citizens, without the public's consent anything they like. And once again, the government coalition has won only 43 percent of the citizens' votes in the elections, not the majority. Parliament, both the House and the Senate, is therefore not an insurance policy. More specifically, they are a guarantee to the government and the United States that they will do what they want with our country, despite the resistance of most of our citizens. The real insurance policy is a referendum which, however, the government coalition is preventing. The stay of foreign troops, in addition, under conditions where Czech laws are out of place, and this is proven, is a huge restriction on our sovereignty, which has no right to consent to any government, no parliament without the consent of most citizens of the Czech Republic. This country, my colleagues, is not yours. It is all of us, all citizens of the Czech Republic, and you should respect this and first of all ask citizens for their consent. Finally, I will respond with just one sentence to the personal attacks of Secretary Černochová. Madam Secretary, I love women, and I really won't respond to your attacks because you're a woman, and I am, of course, above things. But my fellow party members will express themselves in factual terms for me. So I'm really gonna be a gentleman to women. I'm not gonna slip into a personal plane. Yes, political - political clash, political programme clash, that's fine, but on a personal level, even if you call me names, I'm used to it. It's always attacking those whose support is falling. But I like you like a woman, and I'm really above it and don't make me do it. Thank you for your attention and I wish you, too, Madam Secretary, a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u7	I note three factual points - the first Mr Vích, then Mr Foldyna and then Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna respond to Secretary Černochová's speech. I must stand up for the way you acted against the SPD leader, Tomie Okamur, on the approval of the British Advisory and Training Team's stay. Madam Secretary, you do not seriously consider that 30 persons of the British Advisory and Training Team approved under the APC format can be compared, that is, NATO, the European Union within the Partnership for Peace - I would like to stress the Partnership for Peace, which has 52 states. In this format, 52 states are part of the Partnership for Peace. And it was important for us, and that is why I recommended to our MP to vote in favour of the British Advisory and Training Team because they were instructors, they were training and they were a Peace Partnership programme, and that is not possible to put at the same level as the US soldiers, or the Czech Republic and USA agreement, with the program for which I recommended our MP to vote. I just want to put it on the right level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u9	Thank you. Now Jaroslav Foldyna. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u10	Thank you for the floor. I turn to the Minister through you on one thing, because Mr Okamura did not talk about it, however, that she accused the SPD president of some kind of fraud, tunneling, so it actually damages the entire SPD - and us, that we are some... who are silent about it. I invite you, Madam Secretary, to prove what you said here - that Tomio Okamura was tunneling Dawn. In 2015, the D.A. investigated and postponed the charge. I'm asking you -- you said it here that it was, either you're a disinformer and a liar, or you're not, and you're not able to prove it -- so you take the microphone, prove that Tomio Okamura was tunneling úsvit, or you told Tomie Okamur and the public that you're not a disinformer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u11	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was here quoting colleagues from Dawn who commented on what Tomio Okamura did when he left Dawn and became an independent MP. About what my colleague Vích said. These are two types of mandate. One mandate was to extend the time of the British military advisory and training team - there, you are right, it was 30 persons, but then there was just the residence of members of the armed forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the European Union and that was 100 persons. So that's two mandates, Mr. Colleague. About what Mr. Okamura said here. Maybe Mr. Okamura didn't notice that to the Constitution, to that article. 43, there is a loaded amendment that postpones the validity, the effectiveness of the amendment to the Constitution for the new parliamentary term, to the new government that will arise here after the parliamentary elections. So there's no truth that this government wants to usurp any other authority. Nothing like that is true. And maybe it wouldn't be a big deal if the chairman of the SPD read the constitution sometimes. The DCA shall be a normal bilateral international agreement subject to the consent of Parliament under the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 10 constitutions shall take precedence over the law of the DCA, so they may contain a different regulation than that in the law, so they shall be approved in Parliament. However, given that the DCA is approved by Parliament in a similar way to the laws and its regulation is at the level of the law, it cannot be contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction The contents of the DCA must comply with the Constitution of the Czech Republic and other constitutional laws, because the DCA is not superior to the Constitution of the Czech Republic... or to other constitutional laws. [[Time.]] It's nonsense what was said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u13	Thank you. Jaroslav Foldyna with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u14	Thank you for the floor. I understand that the secretary is obviously upset and doesn't realize what she said or didn't say. So I'm telling her here that she didn't say she was quoting someone! She just said that Tomio Okamura was tunneling úsvit! That's on the log, and we can take a look at it. So if you say so, then prove it, because at this point, it's an accusation that's pretty serious. You just accused Tomio Okamura of tunneling úsvit, and you didn't say you were quoting someone. I understand that we're discussing a brotherly aid agreement -- sorry, about defensive cooperation -- and that at this point you can be a little nervous, but let's stick to the facts. You said Tomio Okamura tunneled úsvit. You didn't quote anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u15	Madam Secretary, with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u16	Mr. Foldyna, through the Vice-President, you remember the time when your colleagues from Dawn were killed on live air. You were also an MP here, you were a MP behind the ČSSD. All of us sitting here have witnessed constant blame on one side against the other, including these strong words. That's where the microphone sounded. So I didn't say anything here that wasn't discussed and dealt with here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies at the time, and what, in some way, maybe then, as you said, would have been the subject of some kind of lawsuit. But Mr. Okamura here insults everyone. He has repeatedly insulted the President of the Chamber of Deputies. You've been insulting me all day and comparing me to Biľak. So really leave to me what moments of Mr. Okamura's history I will mention here. Leave it to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u17	Thank you. Mr Radim Fiala is next with priority rights. It's not, so I'm downloading the application. Next will be President Alena Schillerová, Minister Vít Rakušan will be prepared, and Karel Havlíček will be present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I must say that I am absolutely fascinated. I am fascinated by the way you approached such a serious subject. And how you resigned from communication on the outside, towards the people. And as it all corresponds to the system of your rule, when you put horse flaps on your eyes, you don't look to your right, you don't look to your left, and you just do it. But it's different now because the answers aren't just for the opposition, they're for the public. This is really an incomprehensible matter for me. I'll fill your mailboxes on Facebook, Instagram, mailboxes. And I was asking myself, how could this happen? Other events that, on the contrary, deserve restraint in my opinion, comment on the last few times. Sometimes I feel like you're competing - the Foreign Minister and the Secretary of Defense - who's gonna have a funnier tweet and get a bigger number of hearts. Here we are discussing the planning of vacation in Crimea, in the end it also sounded here today as if you forgot that you are primarily ministers of the government of the Czech Republic. But such a key topic, which unfortunately has great potential to dig up more and more ditches in society, you will be absolutely reprehensible for me. When we accuse the government of chaotic and swept communication in the tax package, energy crisis, social areas, or when we accuse the government of lying in drawing up the budget and violating perhaps all the promises you have made to people, I do not consider any of this as socially dangerous as the lack of communication of the defensive treaty. A large part of our citizens remember August 21, 1968. And, of course, people who are worried that we're approving something like this now, we just turned the helm to the other side, that's what they say in those emails, those messages I read every day. And you were supposed to explain all this time that the fear is completely out of place, that we don't really approve of a modern invitation letter, as it sounded here. That this is a document that, on the contrary, will protect us in the future and that we are fulfilling our obligations. I keep hearing you've got your mouth full, now I'm thinking about the government in general, fighting misinformation. We are still hearing something about the influence of Russian disinformation on public debate. You've got your famous KRIT at the Home Office, you're pouring tens of millions into your promotion, but here, you've simply cleared the space and given space to the misinformation that your famous government is fighting. That's your famous strategic communication. And unfortunately, I have to blame you too, Madam Secretary. I think that you have failed the most important thing in this regard, and that is to answer to people, and by that I mean to the citizens of this republic. Because sometimes I feel like you're only interested in your constituents. It's like you don't realize that you run a country where there are different groups of people with different political preferences. But being Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic means that you are really trying to be Minister of all. All citizens now should have heard clearly from you what this treaty was about. But more importantly, they should have heard what this treaty was not about. People ask why we need such a contract. For the past few weeks and months, the Ministry of Defence and the Secretary should have done nothing else, or almost nothing more than explain these things, repeat, explain again. It's really not enough to put 12 questions and answers on the Ministry's website and do a podcast for me. And now and then, I'm gonna put in some conversation where, unfortunately, sometimes they sound, I dare say insults. I don't believe people write to you the same way they write to us. And that you don't know what's causing this in society. I'm not a soldier or an army specialist or an analyst, I'm a lawyer. And, of course, I have also studied the contract with experts, thanks to you, and I say this openly here, that you have made it possible for us to meet with experts and ask them questions. And, of course, I know, and I say it openly here, this treaty will not lead to any military bases being built. Under this treaty, no armies of foreign powers will come to us. It needs to be said over and over and over again. All the time. Still like a wheelie. It's not enough once on a talk show. All the time, all the time. Use all communication strategies. I am clearly saying this, and I want both people and journalists to be interested in this, but also the government coalition, the ANO movement will never support any document that will lead to the construction of foreign military bases, nor will we support any document that would lead to the presence of foreign soldiers. That's just the way it is, and it's never gonna be, and I can vouch for that. But this treaty, which we are starting to discuss here today at first reading, or discussing, does not lead to anything like this. That's a fact! There won't be a base in Mosnov or anywhere else. If any lawyer gets involved in this contract, he will find that it is only a kind of framework, a kind of, let me say, an administrative assumption that, in the event of a threat to our country and at the request of our Parliament, the assistance of our allies can be effectively sought. I say again, if necessary and in danger, and especially after Parliament's approval. I believe, and most of us believe that there will never be a situation where we have to ask for help. But at the same time, it is true, and we must acknowledge that from this point of view this Treaty strengthens the security of the Czech Republic. In fact, by communicating at least this treaty, the government has covered a much bigger problem, which is a threat to security and is a threat to our sovereignty, and that is, of course, the crazy migration pact that Vít Rakušan approved. But that's another story. And I think Vít Rakušan doesn't even know what he's done. At least the Prime Minister of this country should be aware of this and at the nearest European Council to change the position of the Czech Republic and to reject the migration pact clearly. [[2.40 hours]] Because if it doesn't, this government has nothing to do here because it has exceeded the largest mandate, and that is the mandate that came out of the election. Because both the SPOLU coalition and the STAN of Minister Rakušan refused to do this before the elections, and so did the people. So I do not want to speak wildly in the wind, but if the Prime Minister does not clearly stand up to it, this could lead to the indiscretion of this government, which will instigate the ANO movement, I cannot rule that out at the moment. But I'm going back to this contract again. This Treaty really is needed for us. And I say I will personally raise my hand for her. And I'm sorry for the bad communication that led us to these very opinions of some people who simply interpret it differently from what it really is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u19	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Minister Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u20	Thank you, Madam President, for the words. I'm sure we'll find that a group of residents won't want to listen to what we say, even if we tell them a hundred times every day. Yes, they were podcasts, they were questions, they were answers, they were press releases, they were dozens of radio interviews, they were printed media, they were servers. I don't think that's enough. I don't want to argue with you, Madam President. Then I had another choice. We didn't raise the number of people in the press. And I have two deputies, I don't have three deputies. We could hire an agency, I could compete for six months and compete, and maybe it would cost the taxpayer two million, three million, and the communication might be better. Anyway, we've chosen the path that if it's really supposed to be credible for people who want to hear it, so that we, not some paid service, agency, and more or less we did it all within the resort and we didn't hire anyone in the advert, we didn't pay anybody. So, yes, I admit to this criticism on your part that communication in some ways could have been more massive. Alone, when I was going around some regions, I talked to these people there and tried to explain it to them. On the other hand, I'm not quite sure that even if they didn't have the will to have the information, I'm not quite sure that information would get to them. This is really a matter, especially for public media, in which I think there have been several talks on DCAs last month. [[Your time.]] And it wasn't just me or the deputy, it was the committee colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u21	Thank you, too. I am now registering the priority right of Minister Rakušan and the Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u22	Thank you. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just going to stick to the facts very briefly, and she's mostly already made a very precise statement about this, Minister Černochová. I will not comment on any other subject, I will stay on this treaty, I will merely base myself on what President Schillerová said after all, that the repetition in this matter is, in any case, the mother of wisdom and that I think that scaring and causing fear in this treaty is simply something that adds again to some field of social nervousness. One. This is a presidential international treaty. It is logical for the two chambers of Parliament to agree with this presidential international treaty. It is appropriate for this treaty to be properly discussed, that is what we are doing, we are getting it as well, that we are discussing this agreement until late hours of the night, and this discussion will certainly continue in the upper chamber of Parliament, as well as in other readings. It is an allied treaty that, by its very nature, always gives the exclusivity of a relationship and the security of the Czech Republic logically strengthens by its very nature. If we look at what countries already have - Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, even Hungary in 2017. And I do not quite feel that anyone has provided proof that, since the conclusion of these treaties in the listed states, their sovereignty has been restricted in any way. And I'm even joining in with what President Schillerová said here. Yes, this treaty doesn't give any mandate to create any bases here, and it doesn't in itself mean that foreign soldiers can enter our territory for a temporary stay. It still remains in the hands of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, according to the articles of the Constitution 43. He says someone... in the case, of course, that Parliament will decide again, and that is according to the Constitution, so that is the only way for such a situation to take place. Not on the basis of this contract. It is a framework for greater security of the Czech Republic, it is a strengthening of our security. And I think that really haunted by the fact that something is getting worse for our citizens here, that they're getting into some sort of situation where they're going to be temporary troops or something, it's just pointless at this point. I want this speech to be as brief as possible, just by repeating these most important facts, and on the contrary, I fully hope that the security of the Czech Republic will be strengthened. Because sometimes I feel that, essentially, the discussion we're hearing here is questioning who our ally is, perhaps somewhere in the depth of the whole discussion. And yes, as a government coalition, we are clearly saying that the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance are our allies, because we are the North Atlantic Alliance, and that, of course, the United States of America is our crucial ally in that globally dangerous world. So maybe somewhere under all these words, we're having this big discussion. And I'm sure our government will never question this line in any way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u23	Thank you, too. Mr. Karel Havlíček, Minister Jan Lipavský, will be prepared now duly entered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u24	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Secretary, the Government is falling into its own trap. Yes, he is trying to explain the agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States, and it is not going well at all. Why? Because people are scared and people don't trust the government. The normal thing is that, as part of the political competition, for example, we here as opposition seek faults, faults of the coalition, we try to catch you at some false point. But it's in that situation today that we're desperately looking for where your government has told some truth. I haven't seen such a degree of lies and such a degree of disinformation spread by this government in decades. This government has lied about virtually everything. You remember - we're not raising taxes. Not that it was said in 2021, I might still understand. An emergency situation, you'll say it's occurred. This was claimed in the tenth month of 2022. All taxes are rising. We're not gonna increase the tradesmen's fees. This was said by the Minister of Finance in April 2023. And they're increasing. It will not interfere with this year's pension valorization. This was claimed by the Minister of Labour in January 2023. As it turned out, we all know. A few weeks later, everything changed. We're not gonna let the car end to the internal combustion engines. Of course, the vote was in favour. We will not fight to expand the number of emission allowances. The vote was in favour. Reduction in the number of emission allowances, i.e. the increase in its price. And we can move on. We're not gonna stop at energy prices. It's from an extremist populist camp, a few days later, it's been booby-trapped. And we can continue - lies about Russian gas, taxonomy, Babišův's gems and so on. Why am I saying all this in the context of this agreement? This isn't about mistakes, Madam Secretary. I guess anyone would understand that. This will happen to every government notabene during this period. The point is, these lies aren't going to be forgiven by those people. And the mockery that is accompanied by this, and I could point out here ten times what Minister Síkela has been doing here, is what brings people into the situation that they consider you to be a distrustful government. [[2.50 hours]] This isn't about mistakes, Madam Secretary. I guess anyone would understand that. It happens to every government, notabene in this period. The point is, these lies aren't going to be forgiven by those people. And the mockery that is accompanied by this, and I could point out here ten times what Minister Síkela has been doing here, is what brings people into the situation that they consider you to be a distrustful government. And it's still elitistly labeled because opposition leaders put on billboards with Putin, they're called pro-Russian politicians, and those who disagree are very often called Russian cockroaches, trolls, and so on. And now you're asking for their support. Logically, what is the result? Their relatives may still trust this government today, and they have to go to a restaurant before that. The conclusions are being evaluated from people in a completely opposite way than the government presents them, and logically, you are becoming a distrustful government. And that, of course, is manifesting itself now, when from my point of view you are quite honestly trying to explain this agreement. And now, of course, logically, an act of opposition is expected. We could enjoy it, we could lynch you on it, we could say how you did everything wrong. But we do not intend to take citizens hostage in the fight against this government and in some way threaten their security. Because what is the nature of the contract? It's really a formal contract. If the Czech Republic needed help, the House asked for it, so that it would be administratively feasible in any way. The agreement does not grant US soldiers the right to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. Yes, the stay, if it were here, must be approved exactly in accordance with Art. 43 constitutions. It's exactly the way it's been. There's no change. That has to be objectively said. I really, really say this responsibly, we've studied everything in that contract, and I guarantee that we would never support a document that would mean the permanent presence of foreign troops or the construction of bases, not to mention the deployment of nuclear weapons. It's misinformation. And I guarantee, after studying the contract, that that's not the case. Again, it's not like that! The fact is that, contrary to the current state, nothing really changes, and it must be said strongly that this does not endanger our safety. On the contrary, in a certain situation, it can strengthen our security in the future. And let me do one more thing. We need to be clear whether we want to be in NATO or not. I firmly believe that the vast majority of the literate public realises that being in NATO is extremely important and that this is essential. It is similar, for example, to be a member of the European Union, even though I do not, of course, put this at the moment, into correlation. If we agree that we want to be a part of NATO, then it must be realised that our participation in NATO is not only about benefits, it is not just about certain advantages that we are undoubtedly interested in drawing on in the event of an unfavorable situation, but also about elementary proof of certain reliability. Because if NATO is to work, it's about the reliability of all NATO members who are there. We're talking about 31 of them in there today. If 30 members are heading towards this, and even 24 have already made it clear that they can be elementaryly reliable in this matter, that is, they have no fatal problem signing up to this treaty, and we can talk about the Visegrad Group - Poland, Slovakia, Hungary - so I can't imagine that our country should be outside this game. Or do we really want to be the only ones who won't sign this? Or the only ones who will oppose it? Can we imagine ever needing something in the future and expecting some kind of helpfulness? Do you really think there'd be that kindness? I believe not. So it's not just that we're going to stand somewhere with our hands stretched out, but we should be responsible and show a certain degree of reliability on our part in certain matters. All the more so when at the moment nothing fundamental changes and it's more or less the continuation of what's here. So there is no threat to security or sovereignty. Yes, there is a threat to sovereignty within the migration pact, let us discuss it, let us rightly lynch the government here, maybe even call for a vote on trust, or rather the distrust of this government, I can imagine all of this, but please, let us remember that we are in a global environment and let us be reasonable in this. That is why I will support this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Jan Lipavský and then Mr Radim Fiala. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u26	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have eleven o'clock in the evening and actually the debate is still underway. First of all, I would like to thank the YES movement for the constructive position you have taken on this issue. I think that what has been said, Madam President, from your mouth, that on those key issues of national security and what we are doing for citizens, we should come to some understanding, so I think it is perfectly okay. When we were in opposition, we also supported the materials that your government was carrying when we were talking, for example, about the mandates for the Army of the Czech Republic, and I think it was quite all right. Of course, our government is ready to discuss all the questions, and I think we actually have more than enough space here. At a time when Tomio Okamura here - who probably went somewhere to sleep from his many hours of reading material completely unrelated to our question - I was at a debate in the Ústí Region, at a public debate in Lovosice, and there out of 50 people asked about this agreement. Yes, a different opinion has been expressed, but to imagine that the Czech public in some way fundamentally rejects or does not understand, or that even the strategic communication has not been explained what we are heading for as a government when we negotiate a treaty for cooperation in the defence area with the US, I do not think that criticism is actually quite appropriate. I understand that even a very common citizen who is interested in politics after all and does not create its full-day content as we politicians here in this House simply understands that Europe has entered into the most serious security crisis since the end of World War II, and understands that Russia's war against Ukraine is fundamentally transforming Europe's security, the security environment. A common citizen may not find such sophisticated words for this, but at the same time he understands that he wants to secure his own family, that he wants his prosperity to protect the way of life we have here in the Czech Republic. And, of course, our government is quite logically responding to this change in the security environment. I'd say yesterday was too late. That the negotiation of this agreement should have been done much sooner. But that's not the question of our government. We immediately approached this, and actually the negotiating team started working very hard on it after we joined the government. If we accept the agreement, we will also implement Article 3 of the Washington Treaty, NATO Mutual Assistance Agreement. This agreement will extend our key partnership and cooperation with the United States in defence and security cooperation. I think it is also important that we simply fulfil what we, as a government, promised to citizens in a programming declaration and with what this government has gained confidence, namely the promotion of the closest transatlantic link possible and the development of a close relationship with the US, both bilaterally and multilaterally. The Czech Republic is totally dependent on allies in building its security. That is why we are in the European Union, which is why we are in NATO. History shows that if there is something serious safety going on on the European continent, it has an impact on us, whether we are talking about the First World War, the Second World War, and only safe Europe means safe Czechia. And in order for our allies to take us seriously, we must fulfill our obligations and be seen as a reliable ally. [[23.00 hours]] I think that the Minister here might be able to talk about this in my opinion for even longer than Tomio Okamura, about how much he's doing on defense and what all the contracts are in the process and how much he's doing, but we also need to be prepared to provide adequate support to the Allied - and, in this case, American - units that would strengthen the Eastern Alliance's wing in the event of a crisis or conflict. And I'm not really going to talk about why Russia is a threat to Czech and European security today. All NATO Member States on that eastern border have already negotiated this agreement. It sounded like it, but I think it's good that it should be said again - Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and the Slovák beat us to it. So to conclude this, the agreement creates a legal framework - I think that was also said today - it is a legal framework for an extended strategic partnership between the Czech Republic and the United States of America, which we want to develop both in security and defence cooperation, but also in other areas. Otherwise, I'd like to add that The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was, of course, part of the team led by the Ministry of Defence, and I can really say responsibly that the negotiated text is in the foreign policy and security interests of the Czech Republic. I therefore believe that there will be a smooth, smooth discussion and ratification of this agreement, and, of course, we are ready to answer all the questions that will be raised. That is what political discussions serve, not endless monologues that lead nowhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u27	Thank you. Good evening. We took turns in meeting management. The last one with priority rights is Mr Fiala. Member, please - yes... and in the meantime, Mr Juchelka's point of order. Mr President, if you would prefer a point of fact again? Thank you. Thank you for understanding. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u28	Thank you, too. I'm always fascinated here when, for example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who doesn't speak much here, suddenly starts talking about strategic communication, saying that criticism of how the government communicates is not appropriate. And I think he's wrong. Instead of explaining it in some way, and even if he tries too hard, he always beats his strategic communication and his explanation with his infantile tweets. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And the fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs here will read something that will be prepared for him at his secretariat, anyone can actually read it. On the contrary, I would expect a statesman from the Foreign Minister instead of that infantility, Mr. Secretary. And I'm afraid you're not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u29	It's a real point. Thank you for keeping time. And now, with priority rights, Mr. Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u30	Thank you. I wanted to say something similar to Mr. Juchelka's colleague in the sense that I wish the Minister of Foreign Affairs a nice vacation in Crimea that we will certainly help him to enjoy his vacation. And let's get to our point. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the Czech-American Defence Cooperation Agreement approved by the Government of Petr Fiala is signed by the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová. It is not a standard bilateral international treaty based on equality between parties, namely its participants and signatories, but an absolutely uneven treaty in which the Czech Republic is clearly weaker, and I would even say subordinate. And that is unacceptable for us, a supporter of a sovereign Czech state. And we would never sign a contract like that until the vassal type. That is why MEPs and members of the SPD will never raise their hand for her. And it's not that we don't want to cooperate with the United States of America or that we're a priori anti-American. Not at all. After all, almost every time you're here in The House is discussing standard bilateral and mutually beneficial interstate agreements of a material nature, such as protection of investments, taxes or social security, including bilateral agreements between the Czech Republic and the United States, so we are voting in favour. But that's not the case with this contract. Moreover, its supporters and promoters are not telling us the whole truth, or unbelievably masking its main and only purpose, which is to enable the US Army to be present on the Czech territory and the existence of US military bases in the Czech Republic, regardless of whether it is to use existing military facilities owned by the Czech State and the Czech Army, or whether it is new equipment, the construction of which the treaty explicitly allows. As I have already indicated, the government supporters of this agreement are constantly repeating that it is not about placing American soldiers in the Czech Republic. The best argument against this claim is to read this contract thoroughly and study it. After all, I also base my argument solely on the text of this Treaty, not on any interpretations and interpretations of it from the other hand. And so I can say that 100% of the contents of this contract, apart from the preamble, are devoted only to the smallest details of the setting of factual, legal, commercial and other conditions of long-term stay of American soldiers in the Czech Republic. And on the basis of a detailed study of this treaty, I completely responsiblely declare that its name is - apparently even intentionally - misleading. This is not a defensive cooperation agreement, for example, there would be passages about the obligations of the Contracting Parties to provide mutual military assistance or even passages about the supply of military technology, the sharing of military information and so on, but there is no mention of that at all. Therefore, it is solely based on an analysis of its content, which can be carried out by anyone who is interested in it, for a contract on the residence of US troops in the Czech Republic. Let us call things true names and be honest with the citizens. Now to the inequality of the Contracting Parties. It is clear inequality and one-wayness, not mutual cooperation and reciprocity. Until now, the status of American soldiers present, for example, in military training, is governed by the 1951 Treaty on the Status of the Armed Forces of the States of the North Atlantic Alliance. It is the so-called NATO SOFA Treaty, which largely balances and balances the rights of the state that broadcasts troops abroad, and the State that accepts them. This does not apply to the contract we are discussing, because The United States is clearly gaining a privileged position here. After all, this is the main reason why the United States is so pressing to negotiate such favorable bilateral military agreements with different states alongside NATO SOFA, which does not provide them with any special privileges. The fact that the Czech state is a weaker party in the treaty that we are starting to discuss today is all the more serious and even more serious that this treaty as an international treaty takes precedence over standard Czech laws, which in practice means that if our Czech law is contrary to this treaty, it will be followed by this treaty. Inconvenient in the Czech-American Treaty is the fact that we are pulling the shorter end of the rope in it and that we are losing our state sovereignty, for example, in the area of justice and criminal law under this Treaty. [[23.10 hours]] The NATO SOFA Treaty provides that the State in whose territory the offence was committed has priority over the offence, except where such an act took place among the soldiers of the same State. In a particular example, it means that if an American soldier today murdered a Czech soldier or a civilian in our territory, it would be prosecuted by our authorities. But if he murders another American soldier, he's being prosecuted by the authorities of America. In this new treaty, however, our government voluntarily completely renounces the right to prosecute all the crimes committed by American soldiers in the Czech Republic. It's true. But, theoretically, if our soldier kills anyone in the U.S., he'll be prosecuted and tried by local authorities there. It is hardly possible to imagine a more illustrated example of giving up national sovereignty and equality of standing with a contractual partner. Regardless of the fact that the Czech Government is completely trampling the rights of possible victims of crimes committed by Američan in the Czech Češíc and the rights of survivors of them. Not only on the legal level, but also on the level of morality and ethics. By the way, the infamous and disgraceful Czechoslovak-Soviet residence contract - I repeat once again: humiliating - the soviet army's stay with us in 1968 stated that the crimes of Soviet soldiers on Czechoslovak citizens are prosecuted by the competent Czechoslovak authorities. Even the Czechoslovak government and the Communist leadership of the state, after August 1968, did not give up this right in a servilious and flat-rate way. It is also essential and unacceptable to establish a treaty that the US party has the right to free entry of military aircraft, vehicles and vessels into our territory with the possibility of refueling and landing without the possibility of control from the Czech side. The treaty makes no distinction between non-combat flights and transits, collective defense combat actions for assault and assault actions by the United States of America. The Constitutional Lawyer Zdeněk Koudelka discusses this in detail in his analyses of this Treaty. There is a well-known analogy with the shameful bombing of Yugoslavia by the United States in 1999. If this treaty passes, the United States can theoretically repeat it and use the Czech territory as a base, with all the negative consequences and impacts for the Czech Republic. In the contract, Petr Fiala's government also voluntarily waives the right to co-sign orders for the transfer of soldiers, which, under the rules now in force and functioning, is allowed by NATO SOFA to the receiving State, and thus deprives itself of any influence in advance on who will reside in our territory. This contract is also absolutely incredible in the fact that through Annex A it gives the army of the United States of America unlimited access to the airport of Čáslav, Náměšť and Pardubice, the airport and logistics centre of Mošnov, military retreats Hradiště, Libává, Boletice, Březina and crew Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav, all of which are provided by the Czech Republic without any obligation to pay rent or other costs associated with their use. Not only at the time of the rocket-growing budget, deficit and state debt, it is an absolute resignation on the duties of a proper economic operator and administrator of state property and public finances. It's a spit in the face of citizens, all the honest taxpayers who fund this five-calice party. It is, and I say this very gently, the famous behaviour of the Tsar officers drunk in the face. Figuratively speaking, the state budget is collapsing, and you're lighting cigars with 5,000, not your own. I think sobering will be cruel, but unfortunately for all of us. Moreover, it is also about the fact that some of the land and equipment the government wants to dedicate to the Američan are owned by the regions and municipalities, which is an inadmissible intervention in the right to the local government guaranteed by the Czech Constitution. The agreement under discussion here is an international treaty superior to Czech national legislation. Moreover, it is a contract that is 10 years inexhaustible - which is totally non-standard, and I will comment on it in more detail - and the possible termination of the contract takes effect only after another year after its submission. This agreement imposes extensive and costly obligations on the Czech Republic; on the contrary, it does not impose obligations on the United States on any or only a minimum and rather formal one. The treaty clearly assumes, and this is its essential content and also the basic reasons for its creation, that premises and facilities will be created on the Czech territory, which will be under the exclusive control of the US armed forces and where no one else will have access. As I have already submitted, and as some experts on international policy and international relations write, such as Professor Drulák: What else are military spaces and military facilities where American weapons and American military material are located under the sole control of the US armed forces, other than US military bases? We're just avoiding that word in this treaty. This is a resignation to exercise state sovereignty and nothing else. As I have already said, American aircraft, vessels and vehicles will be free to enter and move around the Czech Republic under this Treaty. With regard to weapons and other American military equipment that will be placed with us, there is only one obligation for Američan under the treaty arising: import of such material is to be announced in advance. Only announced, not already controlled by the Czech Party. If this Treaty enters into force and effective, we are developing a state in the state, an American enclave within the Czech Republic, where Czech law will not apply, but American law and where the Czech security and judicial authorities will have no access. The only law the Czech Republic will have is the fact that it will pay for the whole thing. As they say, well, don't buy it. The Treaty states in its preamble that the presence of the armed forces of the United States of America contributes to strengthening the security and stability of the Czech Republic and our entire region. But we know from recent and current experiences from different places in the world that such simple equations do not apply and do not work. We can see very well that America's military presence, whether directly in a country or their presence in immediate regional proximity, has fatally aggravated the security of Iráčan or Afghánec. This military presence also leads, on the one hand, to over-reliance on an ally, and, on the other hand, can lead to the country's involvement in a military conflict, and will probably lead, and undermines our sovereign sovereignty and sovereignty. Let's not be vassals. Let us be a confident and sovereign nation and a state. Let us build our own defenses and enter any military alliances as equals. And let us not conclude fundamentally disadvantageous agreements for the Czech Republic and its citizens, even though they are falsely presented to us as the only possible choice between the West and Russia, between democracy and dictatorship. It's not true. According to the Czech Constitution, the so-called constitutional majority is necessary when approving international treaties in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate if the relevant treaty transfers some of the exclusive powers and competences of the Czech state authorities to an international organisation. This is what this military agreement fulfils in terms of content, because, as I have demonstrated, we give up as a state right to prosecute crimes committed by United States soldiers in the Czech Republic, including when their victims will be a Czech citizen. This is an intervention in our criminal jurisdiction, and therefore in our state's sovereignty. So the approval of this agreement should, from the logic of the matter, be subject to the need for a three-fifth majority of Members and Senators to vote in agreement, including at least part of the opposition. Yes, you can argue that the constitution still requires fulfillment of the second condition - the transfer of our state authorities' powers to an international organisation, but not to a foreign state, as is the case with this treaty. That's a formal fact. But I add two essential points to that. [[23.20 hours]] Firstly, the creator of the Czech Constitution 30 years ago did not even think that the Czech Republic should transfer part of its sovereignty, competence and competence to any foreign state at any time in the future without applying the principle of reciprocity. A certain sharing of competences with the European Union, which was then created by the transformation of the European Communities, was expected to occur if we were to become members of the European Union. And second of all, I'm asking, what's more important? That we give up sovereignty and parts of our exclusive national competences, or the type and nature of the entity to which we transfer them? In favour of whom do we give them up? In my opinion, the transfer of competences, the surrender of part of our sovereignty, is clearly more important. Therefore, a constitutional majority of the votes in both parliamentary chambers should be required to approve this agreement. If this were not the case, it would be appropriate for the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the parliamentary approval process of this agreement on the basis of an appropriate complaint. The rapid speed of preparation and signing of the contract and the fact that this process has been conducted in secret, in secret, without adequate expertise, in particular legal, and public debate are unacceptable. The Treaty is sometimes quite rightly referred to as a vassal in the sense of subjection and sub-alternary position of the Czech Republic towards the United States, not only in the text of this Agreement. It's undoubtedly true. Of course, if we go for the consequences, it gets worse. As a medieval form of society arrangement, vassalism did not only mean responsibilities for the then vassals, but also benefits, such as lending land, rank or office from a lazy lord. However, the relationship of the United States of America to the Czech Republic through the prism of the text of this Treaty rather resembles the principle of colonial supremacy or submission. It is also very significant and rather special that this treaty, called the Defence Cooperation Treaty, does not address any defence of the Czech Republic at all. Neither border defense, nor air defense, nor defense against terrorist attacks, nor any other standard defense against security or military threats. Although, I'm sorry, there is one clause about defending the treaty after all. It is Article 6 where it is said that the Czech Republic will take the necessary measures to ensure the protection, security and security of the armed forces of the United States of America. So, yes, part of the defense treaty is indeed, but in the sense of protecting American troops, it is the Czech side. Those troops whose presence in our country may, on the contrary, create certain security risks and unpleasant incidents, as we can see in states where US troops stay long-term or even short-term, for example in Slovakia. After all, in general, this applies to all the presence of foreign troops in any country. I am thinking, for example, of repeated Japonka by Japanese soldiers serving on the base of Okinawa Island, which provoked massive protests by local residents. Or the case of taking down a cable car in Cavales, Italy, with an American fighter from Aviano base. At the time, it was a brutal violation and a clear fault on the part of an American pilot who killed 20 innocent people. And what happened next? The Američan refused to hand over the flight crew to Italy for criminal prosecution, even though the Ital prevailed among the dead and the action took place in Italy. The competent court has been in the United States and has freed all fighter crew members, including the pilot. The whole case in Italy had justifiably aroused scandal and damaged Italian-American relations. Even this can lead to the stay of foreign troops in a country, plus a stay of unnecessary and full of privileges for members of foreign armies. And I am openly saying from this place that I do not want one single Czech citizen to die because of the presence of foreign troops in our country, even if it is the result of an accident or an accident. I will therefore not vote in favour of this Treaty. The Czech-American Treaty, as I have already mentioned, only deals with and extends the fact that American armed forces will be deployed on the territory of the Czech Republic, which will not be subject to our laws, our police or our courts. Forces that will, on the contrary, be equipped with the right to take appropriate measures to defend the equipment entrusted, i.e. in translation of the bases. What it means is we can only assume and fear it. For years, this government has been repeated to us that NATO membership guarantees us quite sufficient security and protection. Why, then, is a contract signed quickly, the only subject of which is the stay of American soldiers with us? Does this mean that NATO membership no longer guarantees us security? And if not, why are we not signing similar contracts with the European NATO Member States that are adjacent to us? In this context, sociologist Jan Keller rightly asks himself the following question: If this contract is concluded between two equal partners, as we are told by the current government, why does it lack provisions determining which locations and which facilities in the US will be reserved for the stay of Czech soldiers who will only be subject to Czech jurisdiction and will not pay any taxes in the United States of America at all? Or aren't contract partners that equal? Of course they're not. The Defence Cooperation Treaty between the Czech Republic and the United States of America undermines our state showers and places our country in a service position towards Washington, which through this treaty ensures space and conditions for the long-term presence of its troops in our territory. Yes, it should be stressed and repeated to citizens, because the government does not deliberately do so, although it is its natural duty that the main purpose of the present agreement is to set the conditions for the unlimited operation of the American armed forces, their families and other civilian forces of the United States Army and the administration of the United States of America in the territory of the Czech Republic in designated facilities and premises. It is necessary to realise that by this treaty we are passing on part of our territory, part of our competences and powers to the hands of a foreign power, which so mediatedly gets under the control of the security and stability of our entire country. The amendment to the Constitution, which passed here in January, is intended to allow the Czech Government to decide, without Parliament's consent, on the stay of armed forces of other states in the Czech Republic within 60 days if it is an unspecified protection of life and health, a threat to property values or security of the Czech Republic, also strengthens the vision of this unfortunate future. These are very rubbery and vague concepts under which you can fit a lot of things. Foreign troops, if this amendment passes, we can therefore use the words of one ad "before you think" here. And on top of that, this contract for their stay. At times, the current government, contrary to the facts, appears to be the only political heir and defender of the post-November regime - and the legitimacy of this regime rested, among other things, in ensuring the departure of foreign, then Soviet, troops from our territory - and at the same time doing everything in our power to have foreign troops back here. The treaty we are discussing here is far more serious than the former US radar agreement in Brdech - which has fallen well below the table - even if the government calls it a harmless technical standard. Which is very untrustworthy, and it is confirmed by the government itself by its behavior, when it calls this treaty absolutely a priority, almost as a matter of life or death, and by each of its eternal criticisms as a pro-Russian collaborator. Contract promoters say that this treaty contains nothing about military bases. Yes, the word base does not appear in it, it is replaced, as I mentioned in the introduction of my speech, the terms "installations or premises in the territory of the Czech Republic provided to the armed forces of the United States of America". And another article of the treaty explicitly states for what purpose these facilities and premises are provided to the U.S. Armed Forces. So at random: for the purposes of training, exercise, maneuvers, refueling in aircraft, landing, temporary maintenance of vehicles, vessels and aircraft, personnel accommodation, assembly, deployment of armed forces and materials. So using one proverb - when something walks like a duck, it hovers like a duck, and it looks like a duck, it most likely will even be a base. And just as something looks like a military base where armed soldiers, military vehicles, and military planes move, it's probably really going to be a military base, not a Boy Scout camp. So they're standard military bases, even if we can't call them that. [[23.30 hours]] The Czech Republic also waives the requirement of passports and visas for the armed forces of the United States of America as well as for civilians arriving with them. So our organs won't know who came to us from the United States, who's staying with us and who might have gone there again. This is partly the Treaty on the truly free movement of American citizens to and from the Czech Republic. Just a icing on the rotten cake of this treaty is a provision that the armed forces of the United States of America will not pay any taxes or VAT in our country, so that, to put it mildly, it will not involve Stanjurův's planned consolidation package. The contract goes to such details that if the VAT can't be deducted by the seller, the state will then return it to the American soldiers. Their exemption from the payment of customs duties is also a matter of course. As I have already submitted, this proposed Czech-American treaty is supposed to be unaccountable for ten years. In quotation marks, the Minister and her subordinates negotiated it for us. This is therefore a commitment that goes far beyond the mandate of the current government by more than two parliamentary terms in the Chamber of Deputies and by at least more than two terms of office of the next governments, politically composed significantly differently, at least I hope so, than the current one. Government politicians repeatedly tell us when we criticize their proposals and measures and try to prevent their approval for their obvious lack of quality and harmfulness, so that we wait until we are in government, when we have a parliamentary majority, and then cancel them, but let them work now, that they have a mandate from the citizens of the elections to make appropriate changes to the laws and to conclude the relevant treaties. In this case, it absolutely doesn't apply. None of the parties to the government coalition had in the electoral programme a project to conclude a Czech-American military agreement on the presence of US troops in the Czech Republic. None of these parties has told citizens that they are planning to limit the sovereignty of the Czech Republic in such a fundamental and undignified way. Above all, this treaty does not just oblige the current government. If that were the case, the next government, perhaps with the participation of the SPD, can shut it down in two years. But this makes the text of the contract impossible, because it is formulated, fortunately, not for ever, but for at least 11 years without the possibility of giving an earlier statement. For a period of ten years, the contract is to be inexhaustible and then there is a one-year notice period. And such a commitment that goes far beyond its substantive and temporal mandate has no right to impose any right on our country and its citizens. By the way, something similar also applies to the change in the migration policy of the European Union, which was recently provisionally agreed with the support of Prime Minister Fiala, Rakušan Interior Minister. This would have to be preceded by citizens' expression in a national binding referendum, because it is a far-reaching restriction on Czech national sovereignty, which also brings significant security risks. And you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, are surprised that Mr Okamura has spoken here for three hours about a national referendum, because it is clearly unclear to you what such a referendum is intended to serve and how necessarily the Czech Republic needs it to stop deciding on some matters and to allow citizens of the Czech Republic to decide. Such types of contracts are to be the subject of a popular vote at all times and under all circumstances. What else, for God's sake? However, the current weak government, which is not in the first place of its existence and its agenda of Czech national interests, does not have the courage - and I understand that. Not to mention that a strong and proud government would never sign a humiliating treaty for the Czech Republic in this way. But the current government is neither strong, nor proud, nor sovereign, nor Czech. And its incompetence and incompetence in the area of state administration and the disastrous results of its work on budgetary, economic and social policy seek to conceal its incompetence by bowing to the European Union and to the United States of America and the rapid implementation of its guidelines while still inhabiting the Strakov Academy. Fortunately, I hope it won't be long now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u31	There is one point in your speech, Mr Hofmann. By the time he gets to the counter, I'll load three apologies. Mr Dvořák apologizes from 22.30 pm for health reasons, Mrs Taťána Malá apologises from 22 pm without giving reason, and Mrs Pošarová apologises from 22.30 pm without giving reason. All right, Congressman, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u32	Good evening. All I can do is react. It sounds here-- the vassal treaty, restrictions on sovereignty. I would like to read paragraph 4: "confirming that such cooperation is based on full recognition of the sovereignty of both parties, including territorial sovereignty, the mutual obligations of the parties arising from other international agreements and the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the North Atlantic Treaty'. So, including territorial sovereignty and recognition of the sovereignty of both sides. I'll take the liberty of reacting. The Vassal Treaty. Hungary signed such a vassal contract - which is often given here for example - in 2019. It was Viktor Orbán who put her there. The same Viktor Orbán, who was designed by your SPD movement last year for state honor as a freedom fighter. So is Viktor Orbán the one who, in your words, spits in the face of his citizens, acts in Tsarsky, signed a rotten cake? Hungary has rights like the US. Romania signed this contract in 2005, that is, after 10 years in 2015, it could terminate the contract if it is so disadvantageous, it is a vassal treaty, as you say. Why didn't it? It's been seven years. Probably because they're thinking people. Bulgaria signed such a contract in 2006. She hasn't been evicted until today either. A total of 24 countries have it. I'm just going to have to add some more. The chairman of the SPD here said that he would vote, in his words, against the bases, not against the DCA we are discussing today. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u33	Thank you. Minister Černochová is now reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I will try to respond gradually to what has been said here. K - in quotation marks - bases. The DCA states that, by mutual agreement and with the agreement of the Czech Republic, American soldiers will be able to operate in some Czech military facilities and premises, their list is listed in the DCA. They will all remain Czech military facilities and spaces, even if we agree with the Američan that they... Well, I don't know if Mr. Fiala cares, but I'm responding, colleague, to you, are you interested? You want answers? Thank you. So their list is listed in the DCA, all of which will remain Czech military facilities and spaces. Even if we agree with the Američan that they will set up a spare parts warehouse or some communication centre within them, they will still be military facilities of the Czech Army, which will be used by Czech soldiers and American soldiers will use them together with Czech soldiers. When it comes to building new bases, it's completely nonsense. That is why the list of specific existing Czech military facilities and spaces is in the annex, where cooperation with American soldiers can take place. This is also nonsense about the fact that the DCA does not contain joint defence obligations. Of course not. That is not the purpose of this treaty; that is why we have the North Atlantic Treaty. The DCA is only one of the instruments to implement the North Atlantic Treaty or the Washington Convention and the collective defence obligation in practice. [[23.40 hours]] About the criminal jurisdiction. Quite the opposite, nonsense. It is always and entirely at the discretion of the Czech Party whether to retain jurisdiction over an American soldier who is suspected of committing a crime. When you mentioned the cable car, that's exactly the case where the Czech Republic would just claim the jurisdiction and the American party would have to keep it. If it wasn't the DCA, it wouldn't have been. I know you must have been communicating with Dr. Koudelka, who, even in that public space, was debating the so-called imbalance of the treaty. I would have responded to that, too. The Czech DCA, like all other similar agreements that European countries have concluded with America, is asymmetric in this sense. Yes, it is. It is closed in order to facilitate and streamline the operation of the US Armed Forces in Europe. The reason is that American soldiers are a pillar of common defence within the North Atlantic Alliance, forming the backbone of alliance defense plans, and their very presence in Europe has significant deterrent potential. NATO itself is primarily intended to defend Europe, not North America. In any scenario of collective defense under NATO's heading, the US armed forces, which are already operating in Europe or would be sent to Europe quickly to strengthen it, would play a dominant role. The dominant role of the US Armed Forces in the collective defence of Europe is also the main factor that makes NATO membership so attractive and because of which 15 European countries have joined the Alliance since 1999. By the way, President Putin proved to be the best recruiter in that last period, because after his invasion of Ukraine, two countries that had refused membership in the past decided to join the North Atlantic Alliance. In order to strengthen the credibility of alliance defence, it is also important that American soldiers can also work effectively in Europe in cooperation with allied, i.e. also, colleague, Czech soldiers, so that they can exercise, move, prepare, take deterrent measures and ensure logistics. Of course, it can't be true the other way around. Although European soldiers sometimes exercise in small numbers in America, their commitment to America's defence is not expected. Or do you think you'd be in favour of voting here on sending Czech soldiers to the United States, like border control? Don't you find your question absurd? About not paying rent. You know, I really think it's almost from you -- I'm gonna use that word -- disgusting. American taxpayers have been subsidizing Europe's defenses for a long time, and do we all know that, including the Czech Republic, and the chairman of the SPD Fiala club would want to charge them for that? To the county and municipal land. Of course, we will not provide any regional and municipal land to Američan. The DCA doesn't say anything like that or we can't commit to anything like that. The DCA merely says that if something like this were needed, such as parking for example military vehicles in the event of a transfer, then the Czech party represented by the Ministry of Defence will help both parties agree. Nothing more, nothing less. The DCA itself is one of the tools for better implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty. And in addition to the visas, I might add that the visas of American soldiers, what Mr. Fiala here said, are completely nonsense. American soldiers don't have to have visas to enter the Czech Republic now, that's what NATO SOFA is already dealing with. And of course, the Czech Republic will always have an overview of American soldiers in the Czech Republic. That's what we always agree with the U.S. They have ID cards, we're gonna keep track of who's here, and the American side is gonna keep consulting each other and we're gonna exchange information. About the asymmetry. Here I would mention that an asymmetric contractual relationship and priori does not mean the automatic disadvantage of such a contract. That's just not how it is, and I don't think you want to see it. Perhaps in the full conclusion I would just mention and recall - you have been here for quite a long time as a Member, and you are the chairman of the SPD club, and you know what we are voting on here in this Chamber of Deputies, either at the House plenary or in the committees. So let me just remind you that regular exercises of the Army of the Czech Republic with foreign armed forces in the territory of the Czech Republic, flights, transits through the Czech Republic date back to 1994, when the Czech Republic joined the Alliance Program Partnership for Peace. And if I just took the last five years away from you, the numbers, the year 2017 through the year 2022, the exercise took place over these five years with the participation of other states in total 218 times, 55 of them with the participation of the armed forces of the United States of America. The total number of foreign participants in the exercises over the five years is 15,000. In the Czech Republic, 15,000 soldiers trained - with your consent. You guys voted the same way you voted for the Brit. Speaking of landing and crossing, I'm gonna say the number too. Again over the same period, over the five years, there was a total of 2,400 landings. There were 43,200 flights. Do you know how many of these were U.S. Armed Forces? 30,000. Passage and land transport of the armed forces of other states between 2017 and 2022. So trains in five years - 58, road transport 5 301, of which road currents 448, and a total of 40,000 people and 12,000 technicians were transported, which is definitely not enough. So we're actually dealing with something here-- you're just scaring people with some facts that are already here. Can you tell me how many U.S. bases, when the Maďar approved it in 2019, how many U.S. bases originated in Hungary? Or how many were created in Slovakia? How many originated in Poland? Maybe the Polák want it most of all to have that base there, but I'm not aware that there's been one recently. And to the very end. My colleague, if you imagine a map of the Czech Republic, you know where Bavaria is. I'm sure you know, just like other colleagues do. So imagine that an hour - two hours from Prague, an hour from Rozvadov is the largest European base Grafenwöhr in Bavaria. There are about 50,000 soldiers, some civilian employees. This largest European American base is an hour away from our borders. As we know, we are in Schengen, there is free movement of persons. And this American base, please, is located at 240 square kilometers. Can you tell me how you could even think that - if they have a base like this in Germany, and not one, they have Ramstein, they have one again in Rhineland-Palatinate - so why would Američan choose the Czech Republic to have a base here when they have one hour from our borders? Absurd!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u35	We're getting into a debate. Mr. Foldyna's point of fact. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u36	Thank you. Actually, the secretary answered my question when I asked her why the Američan wanted to be here, what do they want here? They're actually coming to protect you. In fact, they come to ensure security and order in a country where governments and those who govern that country lose public support and lose support for the people. Oh, I get it! Now it's been explained to me! In fact, they're coming to protect the current government Garniture, which, of course, wants to secure it by its own correspondence vote, but since the public and the people have had enough of this government, suddenly there's a request for some kind of base. And it's not for nothing, because there's Ramstein and there's next door, they're actually coming to protect the government of the Czech Republic that's losing ground. I guess that's what it looks like when the secretary gave me a speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u37	Mr Fiala, then Mr Hofmann and Mr Vomáčka. This is the order of factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u38	I will answer very briefly, Madam Secretary. I think it's simple. It's a salami method. It won't be called a base. As you rightly said, there are two places in the annex to the treaty that Slovakia has, for example, where something that must not be called a base should be created. It's Sliač and Malacky, and those United States soldiers are just there. They are! And there's 11 seats in that annex, and I've listed them here, and those United States soldiers are gonna be here. And what happens? After some years, when the Czech Television informs us every night how important they are to our security, maybe after five or seven years they say, well, since they're already here and they're so important and good and great, we should let them have their buildings, their base, they should already have their facilities here, because they're very important to us, and that's just gonna be when we get used to them. I remember how it started. Actually, The United States of America didn't even want any soldiers here. They said the Czech party came up with it, they wanted them here. But that's the beginning of the salami method that just keeps extending, and it's going to go on and they're going to be here, and no one's ever gonna get them out of here, and it's just gonna mean strengthening the power of the United States of America inside European countries, whether it's Germany, Finland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary. Madam Secretary, please answer one more thing. The Slovák negotiated a clause on this treaty, a clause after the huge demonstrations that took place in Slovakia against the residence of foreign troops, so they negotiated a clause...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u39	Time, Mr. Ambassador! Mr Hofmann will now take the stand with the factual remark, and Mr Vomáčka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u40	Thank you. I am merely through the President. Mr. Foldyna, you're saying that the United States is entering countries where the governments are weak, so in Hungary, when Viktor Orbán made 51 percent, that's a weak government, you think? In Romania, is that a weak government? Finland, Denmark, Sweden, where do they act now, are there weak governments? Let's just take a look at this logic. Slovakia - why does it have a clause? Because their contract wasn't as well written as ours, that's why they had to make the clause. It's not the same. Ours is original and better, as it says, through the President, President Schillerová, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u41	Thank you. Mr Vomáčka, Mr Vomáčka, will now speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u42	Thanks for the word. Mr President, I, too, must respond to my colleague, Mr Foldyna, through you. I'm sitting here, I'm listening, I'm hearing a lot - what? - statements to be polite, left-hand side of the spectrum, and I'm not surprised. But what Mr. Foldyna has just said here, through the President, is that the Američan are actually coming here to protect the five coalitions, so it's more like the National Theatre and the Thalia Prize, and not the Chamber of Deputies! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u43	A factual point - President Fiala reporting once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u44	I'm glad you picked up, because I think it was a big exaggeration from my Foldyna, but after all, it can be used. But I'm gonna finish my question to the secretary. Interpretative clause. The Slovák have a so-called interpretation clause that nuclear weapons will not be stored in their territory. One. The Maďar also have a clause negotiated in that, if there are bases, and their contract shows that there may be bases, maybe it won't be called a base, but there will be soldiers of the United States of America, that they will be led by Maďar to know what's going on there. We don't have anything like that. We don't have anything like that. But all those treaties across Europe, Madam Secretary, count on United States soldiers to be there. And you're telling us it's not gonna be here. It's just not gonna be called a duck. It stinks like a duck, it looks like a duck, and it just won't be called a duck. But it's gonna be a duck. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u45	There is still the factual point of Mr Foldyna, then the Minister with priority rights. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u46	Thank you. You taped me, colleague. Look, I don't take that as an exaggeration. In '68, when the Communist Taliban was losing ground, Alois Indra, Bil' and ak also invited Soviet soldiers. They also invited the invaders here, and they called it brotherly help. They also signed a contract. Maybe it was a contract even more elaborate than this one. I don't think those Američan are supposed to be here. But you and your political garniture are losing ground. You guys are stepping on your ass! You're looting the state budget. You're gonna bankrupt the country! And you're worried. And that's why I said it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u47	Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u48	I don't know if it's our place to comment on what another member country is negotiating. We are not the Slovak Parliament, we are the Czech Chamber of Deputies and we negotiate a treaty or we ratify a treaty as negotiated by negotiating teams. Like I said here, the contracts are different. Slovakia, for example, has also passed mandatory consultations on extended notifications, on the contrary, Čech and Maďar refer to respect for international legal obligations, which is precisely about the attempt to influence the presence of nuclear weapons on their territory. Mr.Fiala, through the Vice-President, the Czech Republic is bound by the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. So don't scare us with nuclear warheads. I spent part of my childhood before the Red Law articles where Reagan was sitting on a pershing. And please don't try to rebuild this place with some of your rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u49	Thank you very much. This was the Minister's priority right and we are going back to the general debate. This is President Benda reporting with a procedural proposal, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u50	With priority law, but it will relate to the procedural proposal. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I consider this treaty so important that after midnight, I consider it essentially undignified, undignified to this House. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt the discussion of this item by 15 a.m. tomorrow, and that we then interrupt the discussion of today's meeting with the fact that tomorrow morning the third reading that is firmly included would continue, and we would continue at 15 a.m. by discussing this point. I consider it fair that such a fundamental treaty should be voted in broad daylight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-27-ps2021-070-01-001-098.u51	Thank you very much. That's a procedural proposal. In the meantime, I'm the one who got the bang. Yes, I'm hearing an application for check-out. I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to reclaim your ID cards. I'm voting today with a replacement card number 20 - for the log. We'll wait until the number of Members in the O.R. settles... The number of Members has slowed down. I will just repeat that we will be voting on the procedural proposal made by Mr Benda, and the procedural proposal is that we would have interrupted this item by 15 a.m. tomorrow. That would interrupt the meeting today, and we'd continue tomorrow at 9 o'clock with third readings. I think it's clear to everyone what we are going to vote on, and I dare to start the vote and ask who is in favour of such a procedural proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 136 Members voted in favour of 119, against 13. The procedural proposal has been accepted, and I note that we have interrupted this point by tomorrow within 15 hours. I'm interrupting today's meeting. I'll meet you tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we continue the third reading. Thank you very much and have a good night.
