ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u1	16. Government bill on extraordinary remission of penalties for social security premiums and contribution to state employment policy and execution costs /German press 377/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka will mention this point and I am asking him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, guests, I would like to mention this proposal, which, as I have anonced here a moment ago, is a proposal that is really very important, because it follows in principle what has been done in the course of the grace years I and II. That means there is also a chance in other areas of execution, administrative and tax, to give thousands, or exactly hundreds of thousands of people a chance to pay off their liabilities without the accessories they have acquired over the years. This means that the aim of this bill is to enable the institution of forgiveness or termination either of the social security premiums and of the contribution to state employment policy and execution costs under the tax rules associated with the enforcement of insurance premiums administered by the district authorities of social security. There are several reasons. For one thing, the reason is clear in that it is a given, helpful and handy by the state, so that people who really in the past have not managed to pay their commitments to the Czech Social Security Administration in time and have accumulated the great additional costs of the accessories so that in this case they can pay their commitment and they have forgiven the accessories. I must say that this concerns a really large number of people, because only in the case of individuals is 715 000 individuals who could potentially benefit from this institute. The point is that, in the case of natural persons, it would be about CZK 20.7 billion of the possible outstanding debt, which could be paid in this way, and with it could be associated the forgiveness of approximately CZK 10,5 billion of the penalty, which could theoretically be rejected. That means 715,000 natural persons can gain that chance with this amendment of the law. In the case of legal entities, these are 262 000 legal entities, where the debt could theoretically be repaid on insurance up to CZK 36 billion and the penalty amount is another CZK 7.5 billion. This means, in total, there is room for us to give people and companies a chance to pay up to CZK 56,7 billion owed to the Czech Social Security Administration, and it is possible to forgive the penalty of up to CZK 18 billion. The content of the bill also clearly defines legal conditions, which means that penalty payments and execution costs will be extinguished by means of extraordinary forgiveness. Forgiveness is addressed to insurance payers and former insurance payers who are not currently insurance payers but who owe periodic penalty payments or execution costs. What's forgiven? This is important: it is proposed to forgive the unpaid penalty which arose from the premiums due registered with the district social security administration on 30. 9. 2022, that means, really, what was up to this date, unpaid periodic penalty payments registered with the district social security administration on 30. 9. 2022, where the premium has been paid by that date at the latest, and the unpaid execution costs determined by the execution order issued by 30. 9. 2022. This date is also linked to the fact that it is a period when it was then publicly said that there is the will to implement this legislative standard here, so it applies for this reason to this date. If the debtor decides to take advantage of the procedure under this Act, he must notify this fact in the relevant period from 1 July 2023 to 30 November 2023 through the electronic application of the ePortal of the Czech Social Security Administration, the relevant district administration of social security and in this period the insurance due. If the debtor pays the premiums due before the beginning of the relevant period or if it has at 30. 9. 2022 only due penalty payments or execution costs are registered and, if they are paid on that date, the penalty payments and execution costs shall cease to exist without further payment. The draft law also allows payment of the premiums due in instalments. This is important, it is also possible to negotiate a payment schedule under clear conditions and to apply this in instalments, but it is important to say that there must be no delay or suspension of repayment under agreed instalments. [[11.30 hours]] Here we propose under this law, which is why I have been working today for this and for this to be discussed, and there has been no delay in making the law really effective since 1 July of this year so that this institute can be launched this year. The positive effects of the bill are obvious. Forgiveness of the penalty for execution costs is a certain and relatively significant motivation for the payment of the social security contributions due, which, as I mentioned here, makes CZK 56,7 billion for both natural and legal persons. We can also talk about certain negative impacts here, this is the amount of forgiven penalty payments and execution costs that could potentially be income to the state budget, but we have to make it clear that, given the time during which these outstanding liabilities accumulate here, it is rather a presumption that the vast majority of these amounts would never arrive in the state budget, and we would only increase them and we would often create a situation for those people where they still remain in the grey zone and it is difficult for them to return to normal functioning. Real impacts cannot be precisely quantified, it is difficult to estimate how many people or how many companies can use this institute, but by conclusion, I think that this is a significant step in the modern history of the Czech Republic in thirty years, when these commitments and outstanding liabilities accumulated here at a time when, exceptionally, it is exceptionally possible for the Czech administration of social security to be able to pay the one-off original amounts due and to have forgiven periodic penalty payments and execution costs. Of course, it's up to those people or companies to take advantage of it, but it's a really special opportunity. And I also appreciate the substantive debate that we have been having over this topic for the last months, or perhaps more than the last year, with representatives and colleagues from the opposition, because I think it is our common interest to give this opportunity here to people and companies in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u3	Thank you. I'd like to ask the rapporteur. First, the rapporteur, then one priority, and then the President. So I'm gonna ask Michael Rataj's reporter. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear fellow Members of the Government, I have been instructed to introduce you to House Press No. 377. I'm glad we finally got to this point at the fourth meeting. It is therefore a government proposal for a law on extraordinary remission of penalties from social security premiums and a contribution to state employment policy and execution costs. As my previous speaker, the Minister, has already said, I shall briefly repeat some of the most important matters concerning this bill. First, it is presented following a project of a gracious summer, which was realized in two waves in 2021 and 2022. It therefore consists in the remission of certain accessories in the case of debts to public entities enforced by bailouts, if the principal has therefore been paid. The aim of the new regulation is to create a meaningful instrument to increase the motivation of social security debtors to pay outstanding social security premiums and thus to create an opportunity for a one-off reduction in the volume of debt of individual entities. The debtors, in simple terms, will pay the debt itself and the State will forgive them the penalty and the execution costs. As the Minister has already said, according to data from the Czech Social Security Administration, debt relief may involve up to 715 000 natural persons, with their total insurance debt of up to CZK 20.7 billion. Forgiveness would theoretically amount to up to 10,5 billion. Furthermore, it can be up to 262,000 legal entities with a total premium debt of 36 billion and a remission penalty of up to 7.5 billion theoretically. The draft law is expected to have a positive impact on the business environment of the Czech Republic. The proposed solution will motivate debtors to fulfil their most important social security obligations, i.e. to pay social security premiums, and in the final effect will result in a settlement of their relationship with the State in the field of social security management. It can be assumed that the proposed solution will lead to a positive budgetary effect in the form of an increased remuneration of principals, even at a price, as has already been said, of a negative budgetary effect in relation to accessories. However, the expected reduction in administrative intensity and costs associated with the management of the default may also be considered a positive point. Such a brief summary of the draft law, whose intended date of entry into force is 1 July 2023, the event itself will take place between July and November of this year. I recommend that the bill be referred to the Social Policy Committee for discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u5	Thank you. I have two priority points here, in the order of Mr Rozvoral first, and then President Výborný, but before that I am opening a general debate. And you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, allow me briefly to speak with the SPD's opinion on this press. The SPD movement supports the proposal for extraordinary remission of social security premiums and the contribution to state employment policy, where this proposal builds on the project of a gracious summer, which is an important programme for helping victims of an immoral system of private executions, and the SPD has always fought for the rights of these victims. I also stress that forgiveness of often astronomical penalties and execution costs concerns persons who have already paid part of the debt, or the entire principal, and that it is therefore a correction of the liquidation effects of executions on citizens. We recognise the rule that debts are to be paid, which is absolutely true for tax debts and compulsory insurance contributions, but debt accessories must not actually be disposed of by a citizen and put out of the system for many years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u7	Thank you. Another priority right was signed by President Excellent. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, the Government, colleagues, colleagues, the Minister has described in very detail what is going on here. I welcome the fact that, philosophically, the proposal really follows the principle of a graceful summer, which we carried out in 2021, 2022, in cooperation with the coalition - the opposition. Even then - and once again, I stress the principle of that graceful summer - it is based on the basic axiom - the debt must be paid to the last crown, to the last penny. That's the principal. And it's going to apply to social security here, it's going to apply to taxes, it's going to apply to taxes on municipalities, towns, it's going to apply to prison judicial fees, it's just the debtor's obligation to pay the debt. What is one-time - that is why it is an extraordinary instrument, nothing that should apply in the future, but now in one-time - is forgiven for the penalty, the interest on late payment, or the costs of recovery. Of course, the person carrying it on his shoulders on social security is the state. So it's the mercy or the attitude that comes from the state. I think that's how it's supposed to be. And when Patrik Nacher and I discussed the subject of a graceful summer here, we repeatedly said: Yes, we actually have debt as legislators, because most or all tax defaults are enforced by so-called tax executions, social security payments are enforced through so-called administrative executions, and of course they were not affected by the first gracious summer. So just for the public, we're not repeating the third graceful summer here, we made it clear that it wouldn't happen, we're not opening a chapter on the subject of judicial executions, we're talking in this case about social security defaults. That's just an explanation. Thank you to the government, thank you to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and also thank you to the management of the Czech Social Security Administration with Mr. Director Boháček, who is also the gesture of this press, as it is prepared. I want to say that we have learned our lesson, so, on the basis of the lessons learned from the judicial executions, for example, we have extended that period, from 1 July to 30 November it will be a decisive period, and even here on social insurance to make sense, this applies to both natural and legal persons, this also needs to be stressed, with the same principle, but in order to allow the widest possible use of the graceful period of administrative execution, where, by the way, it will concern up to 715 000 natural persons and 262 000 legal persons. So we see that these are not small numbers to which we offer this option, so we will be able to distribute these payments into a payment schedule: for debt below 50,000 to 12 months, for debts that exceed CZK 50,000 until - if I am not mistaken - within 60 months. These are all steps that respond to the experience of the previous graceful summer. [[11.40 hours]] Thank you again for discussing this at first reading today. I also advise you, fellow Members, that it will be possible to take part in this topic of the round table on 19 April here at the House. You will all receive an invitation, where it will be possible to discuss the subject in more detail than here at plenary with the members of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement and insolvency. In order to meet the government's declared effectiveness on 1 July, I would like to make a proposal here pursuant to § 91 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, in order to vote, when we conclude the first reading, to reduce the time limit for committee discussions by 35 days between first and second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u9	Thank you. I'm writing a motion to shorten the deadline by 35 days. And since no one else has exercised the right of priority, at this point I am asking Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to briefly describe what is going on in connection with the following press number 384, which follows up, and then I would like to take three suggestions to improve it. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this is not a graceful summer III, which was said by my colleague Výborný, so that it doesn't frighten anyone by chance, that we said that we would only have a gracious summer I and II, so that it doesn't look like we're trying forever, so I would call it a graceful autumn, so let's make it a little different, because before that it was about execution and enforcement at the moment the bailiffs dealt with it. Now it concerns cases where the Czech Social Security Administration or the financial authorities enforce it. They're completely different cases. This needs to be made clear to citizens and debtors. This isn't about the executions that the bailiffs enforce, so it's not a graceful summer of III, but let's call it a gracious autumn to make a difference. I am pleased that the current government is following up on what has begun during previous governments, i.e. the cultivation of the environment of executions and insolvencys, where we have adopted by hand several coalitions - the opposition has adopted some of the proposals that have run out - here I will mention, for example, an amendment to automatic stopping, the abolition of futile bailouts - and which clean up the environment. This gracious autumn is actually going on, and it's true that we promised him that it would be fair to be fair. I would highlight three things that come out of the experience of the Grace Summer I that improve it, and I would enrich it with three more. The first one is that the time is extending. We had a gracious summer for three months, a gracious autumn is for five months, as said, from 1 July to 30 November. The second change is that it was about individuals before, now it concerns both natural and legal persons. I'm not gonna repeat the numbers here, the statistics. Third, and that is a fundamental change, ladies and gentlemen, are payments, that has not been made before. That means that at this point in time, when the debt, the principal, is higher, it's possible to split it into instalments. I would like to move away from this, and I would already have an improvement in the proposal that we unite these instalments with the two press that are coming after each other, that is, what the Czech Social Security Administration is dealing with, and what we will then discuss with the Minister of Finance, the extraordinary remission of tax debts. Because while here it is solved by actually dividing into 5,000, from 5,000 to 50,000, from 50,000 higher, that is, up to 5,000 is one instalment, from 5,000 to 50,000 12 instalments, that is, it takes a year, from 50,000 more, a higher principal, it's 60 instalments, that is, five years - so in the following press it's divided into four instalments, where the data in that law is fixed. I'd like to suggest, and I'm saying this in advance so we can unite it so it's not confusing for these people. Notaben, these people are used to it, and that's the experience - I hope my colleague Výborný will confirm it from the graceful summer of I - to operate on a monthly basis, that means there are four payments quarterly, I dare say that for this kind of people it is not entirely appropriate. So that's the first change I'm initiating, and I'd be happy to talk about it on that round table. That means unification of the instalments. The second amendment, which applies both to this case and to the printing of the following, is Section 6, which concerns precisely the instalments where you have in Section 6 letters. b. This does not apply to cases where, at the date of submission of this notification, the premiums due are not enforced under the tax rules. Because here I forgot to say, and they didn't even say it to my colleagues, that in this case of a gracious autumn, it concerns the recovery of claims at different stages of recovery, that it doesn't just involve pure execution. But the moment this guy wants to split it into instalments, he can't have any more executions. Well, that seems a little bit unsensory to me, so I'd like to open up a professional debate on this subject so that we really fill this gracious autumn with real content so that people who already have the executions don't fall out of it, but the principal is high, and they need to split it into instalments, and according to the handwriting. (b) they are not allowed to do so. The third, let's say, expansion stimulus is whether it could be extended to health insurance. There, too, in the past gracious summer I and II, we came across the fact that many people couldn't go through that gracious summer, because health insurance companies were just dealing with it themselves, they didn't deal with it through the bailiff, so the people fell out. So I would quite like it if this extension fell right under the press of 377, which concerns the remission of social security premiums, and I would extend it to health insurance. In a similar spirit, a little bit more briefly, I am also registered in the following press, but I will no longer describe these three suggestions and changes in detail, because in principle these two prints go hand-to-hand, we approve them behind us, they have a common basis. One is simply about social insurance, the other is about taxes, and so I say that in the possibilities where this is possible, we should unite, just for communication on the outside and for clarity, as they say, message to society. Once again, I hope that my colleague Výborný will confirm that it is extremely important to communicate on the outside, because if it is not understandable, simple communicative on the outside, these people simply do not apply and do not take advantage of it. I thank you for your attention and look forward to working together in these useful changes and standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u11	Thank you and another duly signed up is Mrs Lenka Dražilová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u12	Thank you for the floor. Well, I haven't really been in a very short time. I have been entrusted with the communication of an opinion for the ANO club. As has already been said, the bill seeks to create an instrument that will motivate social security insurers to pay outstanding premiums. I'm not going to repeat the sums here, I had them ready, but they've been heard twice, so I'm not going to repeat the third time. A significant one-off reduction in debt is therefore expected. Both the penalty and the execution costs will be forgiven, and I agree that the proposed forgiveness really means an understandable, relatively simple instrument in relation to debtors. It's actually a form of amnesty. What may not have been mentioned here, I do not know, is important to say that this is indeed a one-off measure in order to prevent possible unintended speculation, so that it cannot be calculated in the future with the re-use of this extraordinary measure. [[11.50 hours]] For us, for the YES movement, it is of course important that this measure reflects the current unfavourable economic situation of the payers, that it will mean effective assistance this year. We will therefore support this bill, with, of course, the improvements made by my colleague Patrik Nacher, who will make his amendments to this effect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-001-016.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else wants to speak in the debate? No, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words, Mr. Secretary? It's not. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'm gonna rejoin you for now. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss... [[The Minister recalls the shortening of the deadline.]] Yeah, I'm counting on it, 35 days short, I've got it covered. We will vote on whether the proposed proposal for social policy as a committee of guarantee will go through the vote. I'll wait for my colleagues and colleagues to come. In the meantime, I will read the apologies, we will use the time: Mrs Balaštíková all day for health reasons, Mr Bureš from 12 for work reasons, Mr Kolář from 9.45 for work reasons and Mrs Pastuchová from 13 for work reasons. Let's take a vote. I'm going to ask if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee than to the Social Policy Committee? No. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, logged in 174, for was 158, against no one. Accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. So I wonder if anyone has a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I can't see. In that case, we will be voting on the reduction of the deadline between the first and second readings, according to the President's proposal of the Excellent by 35 days. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 37, logged in 174, for was 157, against was no one. Result: accepted. Thank you for your cooperation. And we can go to the next point, which is the number.
