ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws /German press 392 - shortened negotiations This proposal will be presented by Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. I would like to ask very strongly that those who want to speak leave the O.R. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, colleagues, the public, have a nice evening. So I would also like to mention this whole House press number 392, which is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. The essence of this proposal is to lay down new rules for exceptional valorisation, which will be in June this year, for which legal conditions have been fulfilled and for which we want to make parametric changes to the law so that average pensions in the Czech Republic are increased by 760 crowns. This means that the average pension in the Czech Republic will reach over CZK 20,000 and, against the average wage in this country, it will reach a record of more than 50 percent of the average income in relation to the average wage. So, bottom line, in a year and a half, the increase in the nominal amount of pensions will be less than CZK 5,000. However, this proposal comes in a situation where in the last more than a year, the Czech Republic is experiencing extreme, high inflation, which we responded to here last year by saying that, in addition to proper valorisation, there were two other extraordinary valorisations in 2022.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u3	I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. I will also ask that those who speak speak outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u4	Thank you. There were two extraordinary valorisations which, although not covered by the budget and its proposal for 2022, were logically subsequently paid out and added to the budget. When the government prepared the budget for 2023 in August last year, it was not possible to accurately predict the amount that would be necessary for this year's extraordinary valorisation, which the government nevertheless expected. We have said this repeatedly, I and the Minister of Finance and some other members of the government, with the fact that according to the current above, this will subsequently be added to the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs during 2023. The estimate of inflation, or an estimate of the budgetary intensity for the extraordinary valuation for this year, was up to around CZK 20 billion. This is how I have repeatedly expressed myself in the public media, in the media, in the media, in the media, and so on. When we saw the result of inflation for January on February 10th, it was something that surprised not only me as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs but also many other renowned economists, because this month-on-month comparison between December 2022 and January 2023, it was a very significant increase and not only the legal conditions were fulfilled, but there was a significant increase in the budgetary impact...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u5	Yes, I think it's gone down again, but please, really leave the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u6	There has been an increase in the budgetary impact to such an extent that it would mean CZK 34.4 billion this year. But what is really essential, and it needs to be stressed here again, it would also mean a permanent pension expenditure for all those pension recipients who will receive it subsequently also for the rest of their lives, with the fact that if I calculate it for 2024, that is CZK 50.8 billion. If I pull this up to the ten-year perspective, it's roughly CZK 600 billion, with the fact that they're amounts that don't take into account future valorisations, which are definitely going to happen in that period. This means that we are in a situation where this would mean an extremely high impact on the state budget, on a pension account where we do not have such expenditure covered by either the collection of insurance premiums or any previous surplus in the state budget, but this would also mean that we will have to borrow it clearly in this year's, but also in the next few years, and we will have to pay it, including relatively high debt claims. So here we are coming up with this proposal, which, at the same time, in the way that this press is proposed for discussion by the government and as it is now being discussed in the House, in order to discuss this in a state of legislative emergency, because, as I have just expressed the effects on the state budget, it is understood by the government in the context of what the legislative emergency also allows, and that is significant economic damage, and we have the ambition of reducing the significant impact on expenditure in the state budget. And the difference between maintaining the existing mechanism, not making a change, or saving between this proposed change this year, in quotation marks, CZK 19.4 billion, in the next year CZK 33 billion, but if I pull up the outlook for about the next ten years, that's CZK 316 billion. I note that in this perspective in the coming years it will always be necessary to calculate the future valorisation, or the valorisation, which will increase these amounts further. As regards the question of legislative emergency, I will add that we are indeed in a situation where we have time, where we can adjust this in the view of the petitioner by 23 March of this year at the latest, because at that date the government would have to issue a government regulation, which then sets out exactly what the conditions for exceptional valorisation are. This is how the current wording of the Pension Insurance Act speaks. We are now in that space of time, when it is possible for the legislator's will here to adjust these parameters and therefore for this adjustment to take place. It's described in the explanatory memorandum. We believe that we are not here to break down the legitimate expectations of old-age pensioners or other pensions, because that crucial moment would not have occurred until that March 23rd of this year. As far as the state of legislative emergency is concerned, I have already expressed myself here in the previous meeting. I'll just point out, thank you for that, because the interviews with the representatives of both opposition clubs were correct, factual. When I informed them about this proposal that the government wants to put forward, I also asked them in the call that I made with them, and I asked them if there was a possibility that the opposition would allow this discussion outside the state of legislative emergency to shorten the time limits between first and second and third readings, and this was answered to me that such a procedure would be initiated. So I wanted to try to agree on what we were able to agree on, and for that I thank the opposition, about a month ago, when we started here discussing the amendment of lex Ukraine 5, which we managed to discuss in this House in about 14 days, but this procedure would simply not be possible in this case. That is why this hearing, the shortened negotiations in a state of legislative emergency. What is important and what needs to be seen is also the context not only from the perspective of the impact on the high burden of the state budget, especially in those years to come, but it is some context of perception of intergenerational solidarity, when when we look at the situation in the last year, year and half, as I have already said in the introduction, as the average amount of our income in relation to the average wage or the net wage really exceeds the limit of either 50 or 60 per cent, there is also some disruption of the intergenerational solidarity, i.e. in relation to those who have to earn their jobs today and in their contributions, as well as to those who will come to the labour market one day and will finance both these future pensions with these increased managerial expenditures, as well as the cost of the debt that will be incurred in these managerial expenditures by having to borrow it in this year, but also in the coming years. I will also allow myself to express the intergenerational solidarity here in the figures that I have also presented in the last two days, and this is also the development of the comparison of the average income against the average net per capita income in the family with two children. [[It's showing a graph.]] You see, in the last few years, those orange columns, these are the average income pensions, they're above the blue columns, that's the situation that's in those two-child households. So it's also necessary to understand in this context. And I have also presented a relatively balanced situation here with regard to the distribution of the amount of pensions into individual parts of the beneficiaries, where the highest, most frequent amount of pension received by Czech pensioners is CZK 21,000. That's the most common pension. What is also to be said here, this proposal also responds to a certain degree of solidarity in the sense that, so far, the valuation scheme has actually created for us the opening of scissors between low-income and high-income pensioners in terms of their standard of living in terms of the situation of households at this time of high inflation. We are proposing an adjustment by proposing an increase of CZK 400 to all old-age pensioners as fixed, and then an increase of 2,3 %, and also the merit part is preserved here and there is a great emphasis on the support of people with absolutely low pensions. There is also an increase compared to the current current valuation scheme, but there is also a percentage increase in those people with below-average pensions towards those above-average. So it is also some really reaction that takes into account the social situation and its effects now on pensioners in the Czech Republic. These are probably all the essential, relevant reasons why the government has decided on this step, why it comes before the Chamber of Deputies and asks Members to really assess and consider the difficult situation, its implications not only for this year, but for the future, because it is not a mechanism that would be applicable to us if we were to grant those pensions according to the current valuation scheme, which we could somehow revise in the future and reduce the expenditure from the state budget. I think I've exhausted all the essentials I've wanted to say here, I've said it here over and over again in the last two and a half days, I've responded here to a lot of questions in the debate that ran. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u7	Thank you. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 392/1. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Viktor Vojtko, to inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and of any amendments to justify it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly speak from the rapporteur's position about the Houses under discussion, the press number 392. In the Committee on Social Policy, we discussed it at the 26th meeting on 22 February 2023 and adopted the following resolution: "After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, Mr Viktor Vojtek's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill no later than 21.00 on 28.00. 2. 2023; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 392; V. Instructs the rapporteur of the Committee to: The Committee's opinion was communicated to the Assembly of Deputies, In cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, he has made appropriate legislative technical adjustments. So much for the resolution itself. The Minister explained quite in detail both today and in the previous days the law itself. Let me put it rather from the formal point of view of the matter as rapporteur. It specifically amends three laws: the Pension Insurance Act, the Act on the Unlawfulness of the Communist regime and opposition to it, and the Act on the Appreciation of Members of the National Fight for the Origin and Liberation of Czechoslovakia and some survivors of them, on a special contribution to pensions of certain persons, on a lump sum of money for some participants in the National Fight for the Liberation between 1939 and 1945 and on the amendment of certain laws. This is all going to happen now. But since about 360 amendments have been tabled to the law, I believe that a large part of the Chamber of Deputies has become familiar with it very closely. For the context, I would just add what I would appreciate most about it, that the valorisation that is set in it is divided into two parts, namely the part fixed at CZK 400 and the part percentage of less than 3% of the percentage of the pension, which is also the recommendation of a number of economists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u9	Thank you. I'm going to read some of the apologies that arrived in the meantime. Mr Michael Kohajda apologizes from 7:45 pm for reasons of work, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 5:21 pm for family reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl from 4:00 pm for health reasons, Minister Jozef Síkela from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Minister Vlastimil Válek within 13:00 for reasons of work. That's how we settled the apology. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and we will now decide whether to hold a general debate. [[Checkout request.]] Yes, I'll check you all out, I heard. Please log in with your ID cards again. I'll have a moment of patience before I get a replacement card, if necessary, so I can also vote. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u10	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President - there's a lot of noise - can you rephrase what we are voting on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u11	Yes. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. They've all been summoned from the lobby. I only asked because my vote card doesn't work suddenly now - it's already working. That's right, in the last moment, it usually comes down to it. Thank you so much for your help. We will now decide whether to hold a general debate. We all know what we're voting on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. If you're against it, press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 50, 163 Members voted in favour of 70, against 75. I therefore say that the general debate will not succeed. [[Members of the ANO and SPD are punching the bench with their fists.]] In view of this, I am opening up the debate in detail and I see that with priority rights... [[Ambassador Okamura reporting for word.]] I've got the order. Yes. I'm saying you're the first to be logged in, and you've applied now. Please, you may speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u12	Madam Vice-President, you just messed up a little bit. I'm going to respond to the vote. Okay. I must strongly oppose the fact that you have covered up a general debate here to rob 3.5 million pensioners by an average of CZK 1 000 a month! [[Let's hear it for the members of the SPD.]] I heard from the same government MPs here repeatedly a moment ago that we were finally on the law, that we finally got to the law. Well, I expected that we would discuss this, that you wanted to rob 3.5 million pensioners - disabled, elderly, widowed, orphaned. We just want to say something about it. You want to shut us up, you want to censor the opposition here. We represent both opposition parties here, millions of voters, and you do not allow us to speak to the law when the general debate has opened? I strongly object to this. I think it is completely contrary to any behaviour at all in the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to add that, of course, the SPD MEP insists, because you have now voted that there will only be a detailed debate. We have tabled 102 amendments and I strongly warn you to restrict our Members to justify the amendments. Because we see the clause that you can mostly roll us around here, that you vote five minutes to the MPs, that you can talk. I strongly warn against this, because the public just has to know that the government's five ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates want to rob 3.5 million pensioners from June of the legal valorization. We just want to talk about it. The public needs to know, and they need to know that the SPD is fighting this. There are only 20 of us against 108 government MPs. So I'm going to ask you strongly here, even though we see your arrogance towards those 3.5 million retired people... I'm gonna bite your arrogance, it's okay, I'm a fighter, and I'm still not retreating. I'm used to either going forward or slanting forward - but never going backwards. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So it's okay. But then I'm still gonna adjust that step forward, just to avoid the obstacle. This means that I would like to say that we insist that our 20 Members have tabled 102 amendments. We need to justify them and we have the right to read them. Not that I didn't. But we simply cannot read our amendments in five minutes. Secondly, I would not like to, and I strongly warn against this, to restrict priority rights. Because I finally got here, though I'd hate to, I'd like to, I myself suggested that the vote shouldn't take place until Sunday at 20 o'clock, when I knew that we could put out the government's five-calices and that we could break you to strength. Unfortunately, my proposal failed here. Okay, we got to that phase a little earlier than I wanted. But I simply insist that we, with priority rights, can fully comment on this antisocial law of yours. [[20.30 hours]] By the way, the way I'm logged in, I'm speaking to the vote now. I'm not gonna use my priority-right application until tomorrow, because, of course, I'm assuming we're gonna take a break from the deputies' meeting because this is outrageous what you're doing here. This is outrageous! And we just need some advice. I don't know about the ANO parliamentary club, but I assume that the President of the other opposition party, the President of the club, will comment on this. But we still have to consult on your progress, which means I expect it to be tomorrow, of course. Above all, I strongly warn you to limit the loading of amendments. 'Cause that would have been over the edge. I say for myself that it is an absolute outrage that you have not allowed Members... not only have you not even allowed dozens of Members to comment on the matter at all, even what we have been here since Tuesday. Well, it's incredible that a Member who's logged in and is already on the third day, so you normally won't even allow him to comment on the matter. And apparently, you can't do that now. That means we have a lot of MPs in the MPs here. I am really saying that it is outrageous that you have clouded the general debate. At the same time, I would expect you not to be ashamed of stealing from 3.5 million pensioners. But you're even ashamed to discuss it publicly. You want to censor it so the public doesn't know about it. Oh, no, you don't. We will do everything we can to get everyone in the public to know what you've done to 3.5 million pensioners, or what you're about to do. So I strongly object to this, and I will continue to fight for the SPD with all my strength against robbing those retired people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u13	Thank you. I just want to make it clear to everyone that, of course, priority rights can be applied repeatedly as they wish. [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] Only here is Mr Radim Fiala, who is probably not present in the hall. And you're next. There are common gentlemen's agreements here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I see you've come to the right conclusion that you're going to let me speak. Thank you. I was a little worried if you wouldn't banish me from the room. There. Well, unbelievable what happened here. Unbelievable! We really didn't see that coming. So you guys are gonna decide at the last minute on your knees to change a sensitive thing like a senior valorization scheme. You're changing reasons. Yesterday, Minister Jurečka said something about a train running. When I argued today in my long speech on this, I was simply waiting for his essential speech. I didn't hear much, I didn't know what I'd be reacting to. First of all, you will limit the performance at all in a phase where the reasons for a legislative emergency were discussed, in a legislative emergency. Then, when my colleagues wanted to make proposals to change the hour of the vote, you decided that there could only be twenty, or as many as you said, those counter-proposals. [[Mr Blaha's reaction from the first bench.]] Yes, you're obviously a constitutional lawyer, Mr. Colleague, through. Don't yell at me. I'll ask the Vice-President to make amends. Don't yell at me. If you want to come over here and tell me about it on the microphone. I am certainly not afraid of you, through Madam Vice-President. Then we had some kind of hint of your... You realized what you did yesterday, so you voted today, I'd say a little gloating, against my colleague Patrik Nacher's proposal. Anyway, we ended up at the time that 63 were registered here, and yesterday it was similar. And now we've finally gotten to the law, to the substance of the matter, to what's going on all this time -- the fact that you want to take CZK 7,000 from pensioners on average, that you're just doing it for $15 billion in spending $2 trillion, if I'm saying exactly that you can't manage state finances, public finances, that you have the biggest deficit in this country's history for February. And so I could go on. I've had it for over an hour today, an hour and a half, I've had a speech on this subject. Of course, the Minister of Finance always disappears from the O.R. when I talk about these things instead of going and arguing. So now you've crowned it by not allowing us to have a general debate. That is indeed an absolute tramp - the trampling of our rights. It's something I've never met before. And when I consult with my experienced colleagues, who may have been here several times, they say they haven't experienced such a thing. You will collect the fruits of your actions. I'm sure you will. However, I can tell you that, after what you have done, we really do not have any interest in starting reading at this point in the context of a detailed debate. We'll consult at the club as far as we can. So I'm taking two hours to the Yes Club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u15	Thank you. So I don't see another club president, so I'm declaring a break until 22.35 on the basis of a two-hour request from the club of the ANO movement. [[Member Okamura speaks from the diaper.]] That's right. It's clear, all clear. By 22.35, as I was saying, there's a break for the ANO club meeting. Then we'll meet again here. Peaceful evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u16	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 22.35 pause, which has been taken by the ANO Group, has ended, and we will continue. I remind you that we are in a detailed debate on our only item on the agenda, and we are still in the order of priority rights as they are signed up. I'll read the apologies first. Mr Milan Brázdil apologizes from 22.30 for reasons of work, Mr Šimon Heller from 22.35 hours for family reasons, Igor Hendrych from 7 a.m. for health reasons, Martin Kolovratník from 21.30 for health reasons, Helena Válková from 22. 30 to 8 hours for medical reasons and Minister Michal Šalomoun from 0 to 8 a.m. for personal reasons. That would settle the apology so far. [[Mrs Schiller gives up the chair of her priority right at the table.]] Okay. I have here an indication of withdrawn priority rights in the order of priority rights, so everyone can navigate. Vice-President Karel Havlíček is now registered - he is also downloading, will be later. So next in line is the President of the Jakub Michálek parliamentary club - who is interested in the performance or not? He does. So please, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Jakub Michálek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I was just on the talk show, and I wanted to ask you in the debate that will follow, let's not use words like the war on old people or the kind of language that goes on in the company's breakup. [[Unconfirmed noise from the left side of the hall.]] We had presidential elections here, presidential elections have shown that society does not wish to continue such polarization. Indeed, such chasing cheap points is not a fair way to have a debate in this Chamber of Deputies. [[Another dissent from the left, a noise in the hall.]] And I'll continue, thank you. The Chamber of Deputies has decided to abandon the general debate. There's been some questions about whether it's a standard procedure, or whether it has some historical support. I think it would be fair to put it here. This procedure is to some extent non-standard, and it is a reaction to what we have heard here that the real aim of this debate is not to discuss and convey different views, but, as President Okamura said, to break someone. That is beyond how Parliament is supposed to function and what Members' statements in the Chamber of Deputies are to serve. The present procedure also has support in the historical meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as we will learn in the comments. I assume the presidents of the MPs are familiar with this. I quote it here so that we all have the necessary information about it. As noted in Dr. Syllová's comments and others on paragraph 1. 7 Paragraph 99: "The House decides to hold a general debate at second reading. It may do so despite the opposite of the position of the guarantee committee or the ordering committee. Such a situation has already occurred in the House of Practice, for example, during the sixth parliamentary term in connection with the negotiation of laws implementing austerity measures. Although the Social Policy Committee, as an enjoined committee, recommended to the House the holding of a general debate on the bill, the House decided not to allow a general debate." So we have followed this historical precedent in the same way, and the procedure is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the practice we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u18	Thank you. And now, because we are in the debate, it is possible that they are factual and Mr Radek Vondráček is actually reporting. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u19	Thank you for the floor. I was on the talk show with my colleague, so it was up to me. I didn't know we were gonna continue the TV show here after on the microphone, but I didn't say in the war, I think I said wartime. And the point is that the accelerated management and the state of legislative emergency are only possible at a time when the state, the state of war, and in the event of really this intensity achieving economic damage or endangering human rights. Well, I think the analogy, or the sentence, wasn't over the edge and it wasn't incorrect. That was such a metaphor. The Prime Minister's using it a lot right now when he says we're at war, so I used a metaphor. [[Big round of applause from the left.]] That's all that matters. Second, I am very pleased that so many Members have received this comment on the Rules of Procedure. I think even the author's team is happy that the book is selling. And I would point out that I read that passage about half an hour ago, the same one Mr. Michálek just read. But he's actually kind of neglecting to say that we're in a situation here, and he forgot to say that twice, twice, there's already been a vote on a fixed time when it's going to happen, there's been a limited time for performances, and as far as negotiating whether there's a state of legislative emergency, or whether we're going to act in a shortened procedure, in both cases it hasn't happened at all to all those who volunteered and who want to debate. [[2.40 hours]] We have come to your attention, we, the constructive opposition, have voted in favour of voting at eight, although this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. The Constitutional Court made it perfectly clear. We have broken the Rules of Procedure, we have come to some kind of agreement. The reward arrived in a few minutes. You have closed the general debate. So there's no debate. [[Time, please.]] I'll check in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u20	Thank you. One more detail of the apology that came out. Mr Igor Hendrych states that he apologized this morning from seven to nine o'clock. Let's have it exactly. Mr Radek Vondráček wants to respond to the debate. It's unusual. It's really unusual, but I'll be benevolence alone. One thing... I'll allow. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u21	You're not a benevolence alone. After all, I respond to my previous speaker, to the course of the debate in accordance with Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure. 60 Paragraph 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. No benevolence alone. I'm responding to Mr. Michálek. And I wanted to tell him that... No, no, I'm reacting to the debate, and you find out that I can only react once, and I've got a hundred. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] So back to it. I just want to say that every law we adopt here should go through some democratic debate, that is the essence of the legitimacy of the parliamentary procedure, the procedure. That's also the point where the Constitutional Court might be able to examine it, that he might actually know the views of the parties. And you didn't actually allow the material, territorial debate at all. He basically said it well here, I think, co-worker Kolovratník: so I hired someone to be an expert, I have the materials prepared here, and I didn't come at all. So to make the law credible, to be legitimate, it requires some debate, that's what we're here for, that's what the parliament is for, and you went around him. And I was in the TV debate, and the professor was just pointing out that if Parliament was paralyzed in this way, it would lead to totalitarian practices. [[A round of applause from members of the coalition.]] And I say that you are introducing these totalitarian practices here, so please do not applaud, through Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u22	And now President Andrej Babiš has been given priority rights. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u23	Good evening, fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I was looking forward to being the first, but there were two shows. And Radek Vondráček is right. We have a new totalitarianism here. I was accidentally watching CT24 this morning, and that's, of course, pro-government television. She won the five-calice election and won the election to Mr. President. So -- and I'm not gonna read about Czech TV today -- I'm gonna keep it for tomorrow morning when I get back, and I actually learned there because an editor from a cult was asked, a journalist who belongs to Mr. Bakal, who, of course, stole OKD, took 130 billion, promised those apartments to 40,000 miners to sell them, forgot about it, and then today those retired miners pay 9 to 10,000 a month's rent. And those who have made this largest privatization tunnel in the history of our country, the agency, one that advises the Prime Minister, and the other, the attorney who helped it, the one who runs the Ministry of Industry. Sometimes he makes contracts between ČEZ and the state. So here's the new totalitarianism of the media, because the oligarchs who own the media -- and that -- yes, the oligarchs, and thank you for applauding them, because of course they're your sponsors. [[Laughter and applause from the coalition's desks.]] And the fact that they'll actually let you get into the media, because traditionally, those parties don't have money or the media. And I'm glad that Mrs. Zlámalová got off when she said that all of Prague's editors are against Babiš, including iDNES, iDNES are against. And you know why? Well, because the oligarchs just gave you a clear order. So this morning I learned from the editor, and of course he is the one - I learned that Mr. Okamura actually spoke senselessly here and that this whole clown shop that's going on here is about Babiš winning the election again. So unbelievable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u24	I'm gonna interrupt you, ask my colleagues to leave the O.R., who you want to talk to, have a decent environment here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-001-001.u25	Let me just remind you that we've won this election eight times. And I, when the Prime Minister talks about it, I haven't heard when the connecting assembly will be TOP 09, ODS and KDU-ČSL. So the Czech TV ignores Babiš. It's believable. It's believable. And I'll be here tomorrow to read you from the Czech Television poll analysis, but if you're curious, I can read it today, 62 reports, negative news about... But why is that? 'Cause that's where some independent guy goes. Now we're looking at an economist who's independent, but she's a counselor for the Minister of Education. So we learned nothing about Babiš because Babiš here suggested, and repeatedly, Prime Minister, I am glad that you are here, that you can, when you have privatized everything here and everything is in foreign hands, so you can finally redeem the ČEZ. [[A note from the diaper.]] [[2.50 hours]] Madame, I didn't privatize anything within the coupon, you did the coupon, okay? Try studying it when you're talking to me! I grew up at an American bank, not the banks that you destroyed, and then sold the CSSD for a kiss. So again, what's the problem here? Here's the problem with inflation. We have the third highest inflation in Europe - 19.1. This government collects hundreds of billions from inflation. This year it is more than 200 billion, and overall, the increase in social security contributions year on year is plus 60 billion. Overall, the state budget will receive 340 billion. So, Prime Minister, I know that all the proposals coming from us are unacceptable to you, but try to think about it. ČEZ will buy out its own shares. The value of 30 percent of the shares is 166 billion. That's the market price. There's 200 billion undistributed profits. I know there are guys who make the electricity again in 30 percent, but try to deal with them, try to buy it out, you'll have 100 percent of ČEZ. ČEZ will own the LNG terminal. That's where the lawyer made the contract between ČEZ and the state, for example. It's a náhodička. You have 20 percent gas distribution, you have lithium, you can buy RWE containers, which ČSSD privatized, Transgas, and you can build a state energy complex on it. You guys said you were gonna build something. Why? Buy gas clips from RWE. Why don't you? It won't cost a penny. It won't cost a penny! And so if you lower the price of electricity to CZK 1,500 per megawatt, you solve everything. All citizens pay electricity, all producers pay electricity. Everywhere. Everywhere. Hundreds of billions are now being transferred to the hands of manufacturers. So I don't understand why you don't. The state budget wouldn't cost a penny. Spain is the lowest inflation, one with the lowest inflation in Luxembourg. They did it. And Macron did. You're sitting next to him at the European Council. It's 7 percent. So that would bring down the inflation, like we did last year, which is 2021. Now you're surprised it's over. When the energy tariff ended and you didn't continue the VAT reduction, you'd solve everything, even the food. You know, I don't know if you know those bakers have a lot of consumption, even the sausage production and everything that it has electricity consumption. Everyone has electricity consumption. So one day you'll solve the blow. You will pay less for the inflationary clause of church restitution. That's 8 billion. That's where you did it. Super deal. Well, our seniors don't have to pay that much. So it's simple, and I don't understand why you don't want it. So my colleagues here have been restricted by the constitutional right to speak. There were 66 yesterday and 63 today. I was fascinated by Mr Haas' speech. I listened very carefully. And that's confirmation of the totalitarianism. The MP actually told us that he knew who would actually sit in the Constitutional Court. Then give us the list! So you have everything. You already know who's going to sit in the Constitutional Court. Now the chairman is Mr. Rychetský's anti-babisho. He made you the law so you could make a coalition so you could beat us - five against one, great! It keeps repeating how we lost the election. The ODS has lost the election to us eight times. Eight times! But the media doesn't actually write that because they say we lost the election. But that's okay. So the new totalitarianism has been confirmed. The doctor knows exactly that the Constitutional Court is just gonna work it out. And yet we all know what you're thinking, don't we? Tomorrow you'll cut us up to have a nice weekend. Of course, you're doing propaganda, Mrs. Decroix shares some pensioner there, who's everywhere in Europe. Unbelievable! And Mr. Jurečka here talks about the families with income. Give 'em a raise! If you're arguing the percentage of pensions you gave - ODS in 2010 zero, 2014... then raise the salaries! [[unintelligible]] This is where the cops are guarding. They only have an increase of 10 percent. Then give them more! The percentage is equal to that, right? That's easy. And you'll have higher charges. You know, in ten years, actually, Mr. Jurečka has been convincing us here how much the social security revenue is going to be, what the salaries are going to be. He already knows. This is unbelievable. Really. You've changed that budget so many times. So I'm gonna go back to totalitarianism. So how are you thinking about it? You're gonna cut us tomorrow, which would be good if you could tell us what time I'm here, and I need to click. I'm improving the score. It's in the Senate on the eighth, isn't it? Well, that's your plan. It's done tonight. And there's an inauguration at 9:00, and the president said he'd speak on the 10th. And that's where we'll see if it's total totalitarianism, if even the president, your candidate, is going to be part of this new totalitarianism, or how often it happens when someone is elected, he forgets and is going to be nice and wants to connect. To connect the divided society, which was divided by the media, of course. Especially the media. Pro-government media. The P.I. Cartel. So your totalitarianism, I would remind you how many votes you had: 2 333 681. You were 43,4%. The election 2021 was attended by 5 375 090 voters. So you don't represent and deny the right to the representatives of 1 972 050 who have gotten two opposition parties, and 1 069 359 that haven't gotten. So you represent 43 percent of the voters who voted for Parliament, and you totally beat us here! My colleagues can't talk. Dear colleagues, you are not as well off as I am because they forbid you to speak, but there are already two laws against me. Lex Babiš. That's what my colleague Nacher said about my lack of coalition potential. When I told Sobotek that the ambulance stinks, he told me in the government, you have a Kapsch. I said, what? We have a Kapsch? You think we're stealing? No, we're not stealing. That's why I don't have coalition potential. I don't. Mr. Nacher's laughing. I don't have coalition potential. And here comes Lex One. And a man who's sick with Babiš just got off here. Diagnosis of Babiš. At his age, I worked normally, never thought of going into politics in my life. And he's prepping Lex Babiš two. So you have to try. So far, they're only taking your word for it, but there are laws against me. Special laws! [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] Because those who are rich can't go into politics, can they? That's not the right crew, so they need to be eliminated. So I don't know why the MP was here at all. So, the new totalitarianism. They have everything and do what they want. And, of course, they're not telling the truth that there's no money and that we can't afford it. [[23.00 hours]] It's interesting that... yesterday here or today it was when Mr. Lipavský yelled that we were at war. I don't understand why this engesh of yours is still talking, from morning to night he's talking about mobilization, he's still talking about war. But I don't want to talk about that today. So in my performance, I'm going to implement the rights of my colleagues. And I'll get back to the totalitarianism. So, Mr. President is our last hope, that is, us retired, I obviously have a conflict of interest, all the pensioners who deserve it. Yes, those who have, I don't know, an average pension of 21,000, will lose 1,000 crowns. Everyone loses their money, all the old people. Only those who take 8,000 will get plus 36 crowns, a disgraceful 36 crowns. And of course the Prime Minister isn't responding. It could have been him that connects it, these two worlds that are being divided here, but we're not, and he could have made that gesture. Ridiculous 19 billion. But also the other years. You guys have hundreds of billions. Look at these public budgets, look at these macropredictions. And Mr. Jurečka talks about it by 2033. But the prognosis, as far as I know, is only until 2025. And as you know, I don't know. And, of course, it's nonsense. Only year-on-year social security contributions in 2023 increased by 60 billion. In one year. And, of course, they're increasing wages, so they're going to rise again. Of course, you guys are arguing about how it is, and if that's right, if anyone can talk, they can't talk. So tomorrow we're gonna get cut off, the Senate, who's supposed to guard constitutionality, who's gonna overwhelm it, they're gonna get a warrant, and then we're gonna wait for the president. But we will write a letter to the President and ask him, not me, but Mrs Schillerová, Mr Havlíček, for a meeting to explain to him what was going on here and how it really is with our budget and what solution it is. And the solution is simple - reducing the price of electricity to 1,500. And you'll save billions and be famous. I don't understand why a five-wheeler doesn't want to be famous. You'd be helping everyone. All of them. Everyone who produces and uses electricity. And I read here yesterday, but, of course, the media, your pro-government media, don't care how much we exported the electricity, 330% more, yes, to Slovakia. We export them to have a current of EUR 65, that's CZK 1,500. That's exactly it. So it's only about electricity that solves everything that's gonna bring inflation down, but for unknown reasons, the government just doesn't want it. So we're out of luck. Colleagues can't talk, hopefully they can't stop me yet, I can talk. And then we'll ask the President to think about whether he can save it after all, our seniors. He can save it. He gets it when the senát beats it on the eighth, the ninth one's on his desk, the afternoon's president, and the tenth one's supposed to express himself. If he keeps it for 14 days, it's okay, there's no need for a Constitutional Court. It would be good if the President, the next president, said he wanted to join, and visited those regions, the Karlovy Vary Region, the Ústecký Region and probably Moravian-Silesian Region, so that he could think about it. And I'm calling him to do it again. To do it. I see - and I don't know, once he was a pro-government candidate, then he wasn't, then he was civil, he's been there for five years, so he'll be there by when? Twenty-eight, it's gonna be some kind of government. But with the media, I guess everyone's gonna win it back here. So let's see how it goes. So he should think about it when he's independent and he's here for all the people. He has a historic chance when the Prime Minister didn't take it. I'm so sorry. So now I'm going to begin to present here the speeches of my colleagues who have been denied the constitutional right to speak. The first one is Julius Špičák. Ladies and gentlemen, please remind us why pensions in the Czech Republic are valorized at all. The reason for this is inflation, i.e. increasing the individual items in the consumer basket, which represents the cost of life from food costs to the cost of medicines to housing costs. We are responding to an extremely high price increase, which, for the most part, goes beyond the political decisions of the current government. This is certainly not an increase in income in order to increase the standard of living for pensioners. It is a simple pension settlement so that pensioners can afford basic life needs. I understand the government's efforts to reduce the state budget deficit. I think we all would like a lower deficit. In an effort to achieve it, however, you cannot go over dead bodies, which, from my point of view, is now happening. The government has subjected everything to a reduction in the state budget deficit, rather than addressing the fundamental problems of our citizens, the lack of medicines, or the substantial increase in food and housing prices. Since autumn we have been dealing with a basic shortage of some basic medicines in Czech pharmacies. It started with drugs for children, where, for example, Nurofen was not available in many pharmacies, and the parents of small sick children had to drive around pharmacies in nearby cities and look for which pharmacy still has leftover supplies. Instead of taking decisive action to address the lack of basic drugs, the government fell asleep on its laurels. The deficiency thus spread to other medicines, including antibiotics. While substitution is possible with some medications, a number of antibiotics are problematic. The substitution of one antibiotic for another because of the blackout results in more frequent use of broad-spectrum antibiotics and increased resistance of bacteria. The blackouts in recent weeks and months include medicines for chronic patients, hypertension medications, and recently even cytostatic drugs. It is unclear to me why the government does not focus on this problem as a priority, because this is indeed a matter of protecting the health and lives of our patients. If I take this on an exaggeration, then if the government already needs to approve something in a state of legislative emergency, it should be a measure to ensure enough medicine for our citizens. Not savings in the state budget. Instead of quick and effective measures to provide medicines, even though they should be approved in a state of legislative emergency, the current government has created a kind of working group at the Ministry of Health whose outputs are not known to the public. We have also been promised a legislative amendment for many months, which is supposed to help solve these problems, namely the amendment to the Act on Medicines, or the amendment to the Act on Public Health Insurance. But so far, the government has not prepared and submitted such a thing. When the government did not respond adequately to the drug crisis, we decided to create a platform for finding solutions ourselves. Together with Professor Adámková and President Schillerová, we organized a round table for lack of medicine. The round table was attended by key stakeholders, who practically all arrived as well. Pretty much everyone, except one, a representative of the Ministry of Health. Reportedly, neither the Director of the State Institute for Drug Control arrived at the Ministry of Health. That's the discussion. The round table was really effective and there were constructive proposals to address the crisis of drug shortages. Among other things, it suggested that some of the key medicines be part of the stocks maintained by the Administration of State Material Reserves. Alternatively, if the Czech Government had decided that this was not the way it would have wanted to go, perhaps because the State Administration of Material Reserves was unable to create proper storage conditions for the drugs in question, I can very well imagine a certain contractual agreement with one of the Czech drug distributors. This could also be a way to prevent drug outages in Czech pharmacies. The government or the Ministry of Health would issue a tender for the selection of a distributor who would purchase and store medicines that are crucial to Czech patients and for which the threat of supply failure can be assumed. [[23.10 hours]] Another problem, of course, is the pricing of medicines, which does not motivate the manufacturer to enter and deliver medicines to the Czech market. There is certainly a need to proceed with caution in this area so that public health insurance costs do not rise senselessly, but for some key medicines, the revision of pricing would certainly help to make them available on the Czech market in the long term. Another general solution could certainly be the European Commission's activity, which could develop transnational regulation that would help to provide enough medicine in all the countries of the European Union. Let us remember that until recently, the current government has chaired the European Commission, but it has not been active in this area. Another possible solution to help Czech patients in times of drug shortages would be to adjust the drug distribution system to ensure that small pharmacies are not punished for keeping drugs in stock. The problem is that medicines can be revalued day to day. If a small pharmacy buys drugs and during the time it is in stock, the drugs are overrated at a lower price, then the pharmacy must sell them at a loss. This does not only motivate them, but it directly discourages them from keeping more important medicines in stock to cover patients' needs. The longer-term problem, which is certainly also to think about, is whether or not to influence more how a pharmacy network is formed to ensure that pharmacies are available for everyone in the regions as well. Last but not least, the Ministry of Health had the opportunity to ensure extraordinary imports of medicines from abroad, but this option started to be used late and used too little. As we can see, the possibility of dealing with the current crisis of drug shortages for Czech patients is not enough. This is a few suggestions that, among other things, came from the round table that we have organised on this issue. However, I cannot subpoena the work of the Ministry of Health with hundreds of officials and experts. A comprehensive and effective solution must be invented by the Ministry, eventually by the government. In any case, my aim is to show that they are really more acute and important tasks that the government must now focus on, and if mermom power wants to discuss some laws in an accelerated manner, it should be the very ones that will provide medicine for Czech patients. However, we have not yet received such laws, and anything that comes now will be too late. So far, I have devoted myself to the fact that the government does not solve more important problems and, on the contrary, to the force, it is pushing questions that should be the subject of a proper legislative process. But I have reservations for the bill as such. I do not wish to repeat my previous speakers too much, but I would like to point out the lack of a government approach. If the government really wants to save on the state budget, please, it must be done constructively and comprehensively. Since at least last year, there has been talk of the need for pension reform, but during the reign of Petr Fiala, there has been no major debate on the form of such reform. All I have to say here is that at the last meeting, the government has promised reform by the end of this year. The current proposal not only effectively reduces pensions, but violates the basic principle on which pension insurance is based, namely the principle of merit. Compared to the meaning and purpose of the law, there is a general increase in pensions, thereby fundamentally denying the principle of merit typical of the social insurance subsystem. For low-income pensions, the original level of valorisation is almost preserved, but the higher the pension, the lower the percentage of the valuation. This significantly undermines the link to the merits of pensions. While lower pensions account for a loss of zero or hundreds of crowns, the average pension is a loss of CZK 1,000 per month and for pensions higher than CZK 3,000 per month. It is undoubtedly possible to discuss whether the principle of merit is what the pension system continues to stand on or would be good to leave it. However, this is to be decided on the basis of a broad discussion and after considering the current case-law of the Constitutional Court in this area, not on the basis of a partial ad hoc amendment to which the current government will proceed because it has failed to prepare a more comprehensive proposal in time. So that's Mr. Špičák's first speech that he couldn't perform. Second speech. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the circumstances under which it is possible to declare a state of legislative emergency has been analysed in detail in the Constitutional Court ruling, which some of my previous speakers have already mentioned. Let us first remind ourselves of the circumstances under which the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies allow for a legislative emergency. The President of the Chamber of Deputies shall declare, at the request of the Government, a state of legislative emergency only and only in exceptional circumstances where one of the following conditions is met: (a) either the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are threatened, (b) or the security of the State is threatened, (c) or there must be significant economic damage to the State. For the current government, it is a shame that pensioners are actually hurting. The government would probably like to cancel them, because if they're given money, they say it's damage. That's really incomprehensible. I don't know who invented it, but it's hell. Of course, this situation needs to be handled very carefully, as the rights of the opposition are substantially reduced. It is true that during the worst months of pandemic covid-19, even the pandemic law was approved in a state of legislative emergency. However, in the case of the pandemic law, it was clearly the fulfilment of one of the fundamental prerequisites for declaring a state of legislative emergency, namely that it was an emergency. The lives of the entire population were at risk, a new virus that had a huge mortality rate in some countries. This was an event that our legal order absolutely did not count on. At a time when our government proposed to discuss the pandemic law in a state of legislative emergency, it was necessary to provide adequate tools for managing the epidemic, including for the post-emergency period. At that time, the procedure for managing epidemics was only regulated in the Public Health Act, but it did not allow for the need to respond to the specifics of the population pandemic. It was therefore absolutely necessary to adopt special rules for situations that allowed the Ministry of Health to react flexibly by issuing emergency measures to deal with the epidemic. Let us not forget that the use of a state of legislative emergency for the approval of the pandemic law has already been brought before the Constitutional Court, which has approved such a procedure. In its ruling of 2021, the Constitutional Court declared the following. The real threat was that, if the pandemic law was not adopted quickly, public power would at least be temporarily found without an effective legal framework for the management of the fight against pandemics, which would allow it to take the necessary emergency measures. In the impending legal vacuum, the power to issue the emergency measures needed to effectively manage the fight against pandemics is a legitimate reason for the Constitutional Court to shorten the discussion of the proposal for a pandemic law. I would also like to remind you that one of the reasons why the pandemic law had to be adopted in February 2021 was that the opposition of that time, formed by the current government parties, blocked the announcement of an emergency that was the only reasonable alternative to managing the epidemic at that time. I would therefore like to turn against the claims that the current state of legislative emergency is acceptable, because the government of YES with ČSSD has also used it. It's not. ANO government used it when a new, unknown virus spread at a tremendous rate, threatening the lives and health of our inhabitants, and it needed to respond quickly. It was a new emergency. There is nothing new about this in the current situation. The government's need for extraordinary valorisation has been clear since at least the fall of last year. Even then, economists warned that inflation would almost certainly cross the line beyond which pensions would have to be extremely valorized. The reason why the amendment of these rules is now being discussed in a state of legislative emergency is, in particular, the failure of the government to respond to economic phenomena in time and to prepare draft laws early enough to go through a proper democratic process in the House. For this reason, from my point of view, it is completely unacceptable for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act to be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. [[23.20 hours]] The right, the constitutional right to speak has also been denied to a colleague of Bělic. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies is clear about the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency. The President of the House, on a proposal from the Government, will declare a state of legislative emergency only in exceptional circumstances if either the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or the State are substantially threatened with economic damage. There's no danger, of course. Let's discuss these terms in detail. The question of when a state of legislative emergency could be declared, was dealt with in detail by the Constitutional Court in its decision of 1 March 2011. In this finding, the Constitutional Court held that the condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is not only a threat of certain negative consequences, but, above all, the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way, or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Thus, only a circumstance that is clearly out of the ordinary course of internal and external political processes can be regarded as an exceptional circumstance, or it may be a circumstance that constitutes natural disasters. It is precisely because of the exceptional nature of the circumstances that it is constitutionally acceptable to significantly limit the rights of the opposition and to substantially shorten the legislative process. So was the condition of exceptional circumstances fulfilled here? Not from my point of view. What would be the case with extraordinary circumstances? The main problem currently lies in the fact that the government was not counting on the subsidy financial package for the extraordinary valorisation of pensions. Well, that's not true, because the finance minister says he has the money. It should reach about 35 billion this year, which was not remembered in the budget, but Minister Stanjura arranged it and he has the money. And it's ridiculous 0.85% of state budget expenditure 2023. But this is certainly not an extraordinary or unpredictable circumstance. The government had to know that inflation would reach such a high level this year that it would be necessary to proceed with extraordinary pension valorisation since last year. I guess so, although Rusnok predicted something else. Experts from the National Budget Board pointed out this. Yes. In its opinion of 8 December 2022, the National Budget Board literally stated: The approved budget is also burdened with a high degree of uncertainty. The risk in the direction of a higher deficit is expenditure on exceptional pension valorisation in 2023. On the basis of expected inflation developments, it can be estimated that the 5% threshold of consumer price increases from the date relevant for determining the level of sound valuation will be exceeded in January 2023, which will mean the launch of an extraordinary valuation of pension insurance benefits in June. This will require additional expenses of about 20 billion - well, it was 34, it was 19, but it is not actually missing because Mr Stanjura has them - which are not currently foreseen in the budget. Of course, the state budget is always interesting. Expenditures are planned, revenue is always witchcrafted. Given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it will be possible to cover it from savings in other State budget items. In addition, this is the third extraordinary valorisation of pensions in a row. Exceptional valorisation is approached if inflation reaches at least 5% of the reference period by month. In January 2022, this parameter reached a level of 8.2 percent and inflation was record-breaking during 2022. Why? Because the government just doesn't want to stop her. It was therefore naive to believe that this year there would not be a need for an extraordinary valorisation of pensions. Surely, this was not an unforeseen circumstance. The question, of course, is why the government is submitting an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act so late, when it has known about the circumstances under which extraordinary pension valorisation is to take place for months. Of course, there may be more reasons. One of them, of course, is the presidential election. I can imagine very well - that is what Bělica says - that the current government coalition has decided to strategize and not propose to reduce pension growth before the elections, so as not to mobilize pension-age voters. It is also possible, of course, that the government wanted to keep the budget optically under a deficit of CZK 300 billion, so it deliberately missed some of the expenses that it had to count on. Last but not least, of course, not even government omissions are excluded. After all, we have seen this several times in the submission of fundamental laws in this parliamentary term. Let's just remember how rapid energy prices have been growing throughout last year. Since March 2022, there has been talk of the need to put a stop to energy prices for households. Nevertheless, the government did not agree to adopt the amendment to the Energy Act, which allowed this amendment, until September, again in a state of legislative emergency. Even then, it was a situation in which the law was approved in a legislative emergency only because of the laxity of Petr Fiala's government. From my point of view, therefore, the condition of exceptional circumstances in declaring a state of legislative emergency has not been fulfilled. It should be borne in mind that the government should act in accordance with the principle of proportionality when using the Institute of Legislative Emergency. This means that it should measure the impact of reducing the rights of the opposition and of the public by shortening the legislative process with the benefit of the state of legislative emergency. This was clearly stated by the Constitutional Court in paragraph 85 of its decision of 1 March 2011. In it, the Constitutional Court stressed, and here I quote, that it is also necessary to measure the intensity of the reasons for the state of legislative emergency in relation to the limitation of the constitutional principles concerned, as the interest in preventing or eliminating their consequences should, in the light of the protected values referred to in Paragraph 99 (1) of the Treaty, be taken into account. In a specific case, the Rules of Procedure shall prevail over the interest in the proper conduct of the legislative procedure. It must be clear what specific consequences, according to the Government, are at risk for the values defined in this provision, i.e. what justifies the conclusion on the threat of significant economic damage or the threat to fundamental rights and freedoms or the security of the State. These reasons must not be arbitrary and specific draft law, which the Government proposes in the short-term negotiations, constitute an appropriate means of preventing the emergence or duration of the public interest threat in question. It is appropriate to emphasise that the Rules of Procedure also allow other procedures which serve to accelerate the legislative process. They are, for example, the approval of the law at first reading or the shortening of time limits. Of course, it is clear that the government is taking advantage of the state of legislative emergency mainly because it is very difficult for the opposition to prevent a legislative emergency. All the more careful, however, is to be chosen in the use of the state of legislative emergency as a tool for law enforcement. So said the Constitutional Court in its 2011 finding. In addition, according to the Constitutional Court, the Government is obliged to use the state of legislative emergency with utmost caution. The Court also stated that it is the responsibility of every government to base its legislation on the draft law on the State Budget. In the event that the Government considers it appropriate to make changes to them, it is its duty to implement its authorisation in a timely manner to submit an appropriate bill through which it would have achieved the required changes. But it was not observed here either. From my point of view, the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act does not really give the conditions for approval in a state of legislative emergency. It's not just me, it's a number of constitutional lawyers. For example, Marek Antoš, of Charles University Law Faculty, published a position on 21 February in which he literally says that a case where the government did not respond in time to developments known for many months, and now, at the last minute, is trying to enforce a change of law and is afraid of obstruction of the opposition, cannot be regarded as extraordinary circumstances. From my point of view, it is unacceptable for the government to turn constitutional order into a ripping calendar and go over dead bodies just to maintain an optically good-looking budget. Therefore, I clearly cannot support the proposal to say that the state of legislative emergency is ongoing. If the proposed proposal were finally approved in a legislative emergency, I would be really interested in how the Constitutional Court will stand up to it. In my opinion, the probability of the Constitutional Court abolishing such an amendment is very high. [[23.30 hours]] I've got Mrs. Jermanová here now. You haven't allowed her to talk either. Mr President, Madam President, it will be better... Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, it will be easier. We are gathered here today because the government wants to put out the fire itself through a legislative emergency. I don't see any real reason for her to be declared, and I'm not alone in this. The government also knows very well that its reasons do not support Czech legislation. - I'll give you the speeches later, my colleague. [[To the stenographer:]] He can't hear the lady. - Even the government knows very well that its reasons do not support Czech legislation. He's just trying it out in case it works. She's wasting her time as she used to. This time to break into a closed door. It's useless and undignified. Moreover, it is a waste, energy, yes, expensive energy, time and money that could be used to solve real problems. The government is trying to demonstrate the strength it has in the Chamber of Deputies. That's what we saw. We've been totally blown over. And they'll continue tomorrow. It may work with the power, but only here. Okay. Other walls in the form of the Senate, maybe the President's signature and, above all, the Constitutional Court will not break through the ram that she took to help. Well, I don't know. If that were to happen, there are serious concerns about whether we are still living in a democratic and legal state. Well, we don't, so I said we're new in totality. The only government argument is that there would be damage to the state. Let's talk about them. When, for whom and how they would come into existence. First of all, the government could have assumed that pensions would have been valorized months ago. High inflation was predictable, after all, high inflation is the result of the economic policy of the current third highest government in Europe. Yes, he's looking forward to it. The government is collecting hundreds of billions that people pay and, most importantly, retired people. Well, he doesn't want anything back. In some commodities, such as clothing or shoes, we even have a sad first. We are among the worst in food, services, restaurant prices, health care. At least that's what Eurostat figures are talking about. While inflation is 10 percent in Europe, it is 19.1 in our country, according to Eurostat, thus almost twice as much. Only Hungary and Latvia are worse off. On the other hand, there are countries in Europe where they are around 6%. Spain 4.5. It is certainly not states that have a low deficit or have been closed down. Spain, I think it's considerably more indebted than we are. The openness of our economy, i.e. the import of inflation from abroad and the budget deficit, is the main argument that the government wants to silence criticisms, saying that it is not its fault. Sure. The CNB has to fight inflation. This is even worse than the government, or the same devastation of our country, but the government is supposed to stop inflation. But I've said it a hundred times before, but it's clear that pro-government media won't write it. It can. Inflation goes fully to this government, which had a year to stand up to it, and it did it wrong. Squeezing on someone else's or bargaining won't hold up. When we look at the numbers from other European countries, we have a clear picture. With such inflation, the government could have assumed that extraordinary valorisation would be necessary, so the state budget would have been adapted to that. If the government is now talking about economic damage in order to justify an emergency, then it is on its own. Plus, it's probably not that hot, because the finance minister himself admitted on Sunday that the budget... I don't think he would, but he said he had money. He said that in January, it was easy. So what's the problem? I get the impression you're just trying what you can afford. They can because they have totalitarianism. Sometimes we also hear that the previous government has also reached a legislative emergency. You can charge her with anything, but I don't think you can blame her for her involvement in a covidal epidemic. People's health and lives were at risk. And by the way, 2021 was a 5.5 drop in GDP, wasn't it, Alenko? This government is still growing, we've had a fall, and we're still blaming ourselves for giving it to 370 billion. And hello to all tradesmen, ODS voters. You got money from us, nothing from them. It's gonna make your flats worse, don't worry. Health and lives were at risk. The way you'll see for yourself is a slightly different caliber of concern. Maybe you can remember what the situation was? A worldwide lack of quality robes, no one really knew what the covid could do. It was known that it was a highly contagious disease that could easily take up life, especially for those with impaired health. The fact that we look at covid differently today is due to vaccination and the creation of immunity. Back then, the world did not have sufficient information, so it was better to reach for stricter but definitely safer measures. Perhaps you will recognize that the current motives for an emergency are petty, on the other hand. Not in vain, they say that if it's not about life, it's nothing. In the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the state of legislative emergency is linked to the notion of an emergency, and you rely on another term - considerable economic damage. Yeah, like a solar tunnel, 600 billion, remember? Here they agreed, Topolánkův's work, 600 billion gone. That was a shame! But I'm not reading that today. From what I have said -- I say this for Mrs Jermanová -- it is clear that this is not an emergency, it was easy to predict. [[Laughs in the hall.]] If I'm talking about significant economic damage, it's not gonna be hot with them either. Although it is not a small sum, it is the government's fault that it did not count on it, or perhaps, as it follows from Sunday's statement, it counted on it. Rather, this is not about extraordinary and significant economic damage. I don't understand. Who invented this? Really. This is hell. To say that the elderly do damage, the pensioners who built this country. They built this country. It would be good to do an analysis of what was behind Karel IV, for Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, some kind of thesis, the need... After what's been built and what's been built since the revolution. That would be interesting. But the elderly were there, and we owe it to them to live in this beautiful country. That is why I believe that a proposal will come across in the Constitutional Court. Well, it doesn't come when the lawyer says he has a list of new constitutional judges, does it? One crew, one totality! You can complain about the lamphouse. The announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the discussion of the draft law in the short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance to the expressing of consent or opposition itself. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. As has already been pointed out, the body primarily responsible for assessing whether such a situation is in question is the Government and then the Chamber of Deputies, not the Constitutional Court. But we're all hoping that the President will become president of all of us and that he's gonna cover it up and that the Constitutional Court won't even get it on the table. Ideal situation. However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool to limit parliamentary legislative procedures by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption by the Rules of Procedure using the means laid down by the Rules of Procedure. It is not without interest that when the Constitutional Court responded to the government's behaviour, it was the ODS government, which wanted to limit the support of building savings, that was when the Constitutional Judge. And isn't it under the same party battalion again? Well, not exactly. The battalions are five, one isn't enough. I'm just reminding you, we've beaten the ODS eight times since 2014. But the media won't write that, and that's okay. By the way, ODS building savings have been in the stomach for a long time. Even the current government has taken the task of destroying this financial product, whose roots date back to the eighteenth century, rather than supporting it in the current housing crisis. [[23.40 hours]] But let's get back to the subject. In my opinion, in the case of an attempt today to declare a legislative emergency, it is simply an effort to limit the legislative procedure by a parliamentary majority. That's all there is to it. Soon, the Chamber of Deputies could be working mostly in the regime of legislative emergency. Whenever there's a controversial law on the table with which the opposition has a problem, they declare it. This is not the first attempt by the government to do something like this. The government just didn't respond in time to the developments that have been known for months, and now, at the last minute, they're trying to enforce a law change. And I must say, he is rightly afraid of obstructing the opposition. It is our duty and responsibility, when the government no longer has it, to uphold the legitimate claims of a large number of citizens. We must prevent the government's mistakes from being taken away by the most vulnerable. I would just like to remind you that this is not just about old-age pensioners, but also about disabled people, for example. Both of these groups have no other way to compensate for rising prices in their budget than from retirement. Actually, the government should be happy because we're trying to protect her from what? From the blunder. In fact, it is very likely that if the five koalice were to push for a change of valorisation and everything was done according to her dream scenario, it would almost certainly come across the Constitutional Court. Wrong. Mr. ODS lawyer says they've got it in their pocket, he knows the court, and that's how he decides, he already knows. He's not paying attention to it yet. Then he'll have to pay back, recount the difference to the elderly. Whether this will be borne by both pension recipients and officials who are also a thorn in this government's eye? Once again, they will have to do a job that they would not have to do, they will have to postpone the normal agenda, and then a wave of criticism will come down on them again. I'm sure Prime Minister Fiala won't admit that it's the government that's constantly inventing more nonsense. When it can associate someone with a paraphrase of básník' statements about inventing notebooks. I recall the changes and the new forms in my style, which I called off, this government is already responsible in countless ways. In 430 days, this government hasn't evaluated the government's programming statement, which actually keeps changing. And I don't think it's gonna take any time. If he continues this way, for the people, officials will drop to zero any chance of focusing on applicable regulations and papers. A legislative emergency is not an institute that is good to abuse. And in this particular case, it's about his abuse. It is difficult to assume that the Constitutional Court would have acted differently than it did with the same wording of the Rules of Procedure years ago. I will remind you that he then concluded that a state of legislative emergency could be declared in two ways. The first is approved by the constitutional majority, and without the vote of the opposition, the five-calice cannot do that, and the second is an imminent threat similar to the state of war. Specifically, here I'll quote again. If the sovereignty, territorial integrity, democratic foundations of the Czech Republic or, to a large extent, internal order and security, lives and health, property values or the environment are threatened, or if international commitments on common defence are to be fulfilled, it may be declared in accordance with the intensity of the territorial scope and nature of the situation in an emergency situation, state of threat or state of war. There's no such thing. - There's a threat! There's a threat to democracy. 43 percent. A politician who represents only 43 percent of the electorate is doing what he wants here. They've taken over everything in our country. The coalition is playing with a tool that should be used very sensitively. Balancing on the brink of human rights violations. Yeah, great. I don't have a right to be in politics either. That's why the Lex Babiš do one, two, three, four and so on. The legislative emergency regime reduces legislative procedures and limits the rights of the parliamentary opposition. The democratic principles on which our democracy is built are thus addressed. I consider this to be an extremely serious threat to the quality of civil society's democracy. This government does it in different ways, repeatedly. I will mention restrictions, regulation and manipulation within the media space. Well, that's for sure, but we'll save the ČT for tomorrow. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall here, but I don't often feel good about the Fialův government's behavior. Just that it divides society into democratic and undemocratic. Yes. The 1 million 951 voters who voted for me in the first round were non-democracy, as the Prime Minister said. [[1000]] And it doesn't suggest that a five-wheeler stuck on the platform of the modern national front, nicely, understands civil society and truly democratic principles. The devil usually does not appear to be the devil, but he does so. I would like to emphasise here that the justification of the government is insufficient to declare a legislative emergency. We have a text that I would like to quote from. It states: A reduction in the upcoming extraordinary valuation is a necessary step for stabilizing public finances, facing major problems not only because of fast-growing pensions, but also because of the extraordinary expenditure caused by the effects of the war in Ukraine and the global leaps in energy prices, requiring massive compensation for both citizens and entrepreneurs. We have had war in Ukraine for a year, energy price increases even longer. Compensations are pathetic. Well, there aren't any. It's all about excuses, then. A year is a long time to avoid a legislative emergency being declared now. Nothing extraordinary and unexpected has happened in recent days or weeks. A legislative emergency is not something that can be declared on the basis of a sudden decision, a mind movement or an emotional state of mind. It is a matter where I would expect to see a proportionality test, a consideration where the risks on one side and the other will be taken into account. We don't have anything like that here. Nor do I have to stress twice that I will be clearly opposed to declaring a state of legislative emergency. Thank you for your attention. Mrs. Pastuchová was also limited. Twice. Dear colleagues and colleagues, government. Today we're debating your intention to change the rules on pension valorization. What can I say and not use unpleasant words? I understand that the government coalition doesn't like what they're hearing here today. And they don't listen to us, so just relax. The opposition's role is not to sit and remain silent when the government deliberately harms a group of residents with its actions. Today they are pensioners, tomorrow it may be someone else who today, for example, does not condemn your actions, because he does not realize that they do harm to him or may harm him. If you enforce the Act to reduce pension valorisation to strength, it will affect not only their growth now, but for all the years to come. They'll just keep getting lower. It's change, but they already know ten years in advance what's going to happen. This is unbelievable! That's a business plan. Well, why did you come up with that step now? It's all over the election. Thank God there's another one next year. We've got over a year till the next one. That's what you've been waiting for, or I can't explain it. I would understand that this is a time for you to take unpopular steps, but you shouldn't remove your own mistakes like this. Because what else is there to say that your draft state budget, which you have once again put into force, doesn't count on the amount of extraordinary pension valorisation? It's not in their budget, but Mr. Stanjura has money in a drawer somewhere, probably or in a safe if it's not on paper. And even though it was already clear at the time of his work that valorisation would take place and that it would be significant. Both the professional and the political public pointed to this point. The media has long said how much pensions are going to grow, people are counting on the money. Your government so knowingly admitted the current crisis situation and created it itself and now wants to address its failure at the expense of a group that can defend itself most difficultly. You solve the problem at the expense of people who honestly deserved the amount of their pension through life's work. In this case, it's not a cliché. They've been doing a lot and a long time. I would like to address the specific matters of your proposal and take it from the explanatory note that you have presented to us. In order to always know what I'm talking about, I'll take it one step at a time. I always quote you from the explanatory note and then add my comment to its passages. [[23.50 hours]] I quote: Period for determining price increases pursuant to § 67 para. 4 The GNI begins with the month following the last month of the period used for the last increase in the percentage of pensions. The last increase was an increase in due time from January 2023 and the last month of the period for establishing price increases in this increase was June 2022. The next period for determining price increases therefore begins on July 2022. The period for establishing price increases ends in the month in which price increases have been exceeded by 5%, this is the month in January 2023. Price growth, measured by changing the cost of living index of pensioners' households in January 2023, reached 8,6 percent and for the whole period from June 2022, was 11,5 %. The same percentage, i.e. 11,5 %, should be increased by the percentage of pensions paid in June 2023 unless the legislation is amended. At the same time, all pensions granted in 2023 and the months following June will automatically increase in the same way at the time of the return. I believe that this paragraph is precisely the subject of a fundamental legal obstacle to the adoption of the proposed legislation. The period for which valorisation is calculated is over. The claim for exceptional valorisation has already been made. Now the time is running out for it to take place. This period shall expire in June. The amendment you are promoting should therefore not apply until the next Valorisation Period. You can't change the rules in the middle of the game. Furthermore, you write that there will be an average decrease in the purchasing power of the pension by 2.6 % compared to the pre-inflationary year 2021, while the real value of the average wage declines by 11.4 %. So I would like to remind you that the beneficiary is able to work and earn more. Moreover, even here, inflation has fallen more on the recipients of lower wages, because it is more about the necessary things, food and housing. So will we increase low wages regardless of performance? No, I repeat, 1,500 CZK/megawatt, and they're all happy, but nobody gets it. Or he understands, because the people who run this country, and this government doesn't want it. That's easy. I quote further: raising pensions in an exceptional manner, in accordance with the current legal situation, would mean increasing the cost of the state budget for pension insurance benefits by 34.4 billion in 2023. And what's the year-on-year increase in social security 2023? Plus 60 is there, that's the Minister of Finance's number, and in 2024 it's another 5.8 billion. Well, there's clearly huge money. What can I say? The government itself knowingly admitted the situation in which the lodging of an early pension application guaranteed its future beneficiaries a higher pension ratio than if they had waited for a proper retirement period. Minister Jurečka even pointed out and urged people to take advantage of this advantage, in quotation marks. It certainly did not benefit the sustainability of the pension system. I would rather not comment on the moral aspect of his actions. The money that is now logically missing is to be paid by pensioners? A group that, for the most part, cannot increase its means of life, is it designed to restore the government's unthinkable actions? The arguments of the explanatory memorandum on intergenerational solidarity and the fact that while purchasing power in the context of the average wage between 2021 and 2023 falls by 11.4 %, the fair value of the average income over the same period should therefore increase by 0,3 %. You're still saying that old-age people have saturated inflation on an ongoing basis. It's not true. Extraordinary valorisation is carried out by the government with a six-month delay following an increase in inflation. So pensioners certainly do not have inflation saturated on a continuous basis, but evenly at a time when, for example, this year, the claim for more has already been made. Unlike people of working age, most pensioners cannot increase their income. But the inflation, if they hit 1,500 per megawatt, the employees have it, and the companies have it. Everyone. Everyone. Simple as that. I really don't get it. Sabotage! That's the shame, that's a huge shame. So intergenerational solidarity. Yeah, well, then we can talk about why young people don't have mortgages today. This is the CNB's work under the leadership of Mr Rusnok. And some experts who haven't built a doghouse in their lives are still saying to raise, increase, so that the banks have even more! They have 33 billion. What's the windfall tax? Zero! Mr. Stanjura counted 33 billion. He'll get zero because this year's profit will probably be different, but ČEZ will pay for it. And 30 percent of the minoritars will be left behind. Unbelievable. You also note that the current exceptional periods for raising pensions do not have a built-in mechanism for protecting the most vulnerable groups of pensioners. For the most vulnerable group of pensioners are automatically prevented by you with low pensions. That's very confusing to demagogic. A low pension does not automatically mean poverty. The beneficiaries of low pensions are, for example, some self-employed persons who paid minimum contributions. The funds were deposited into the property from which they could now draw. No, no, no. Under our government, my colleague, population savings have increased by 900 billion. Under our rule. That's why they can still draw. And I look forward to the savings at the end of 2022, they haven't published yet. Thus, pensions are not their only source of income, and they deliberately chose this lifestyle. Why should their pensions grow at the expense of former employees who have not been able to think about what they will do to the state and what they will capitalize? I'd like to see some analysis of who the low-income retirees are, because you're still protecting them. So I'd like to know if you know who he is? If it is true that they are in the vast majority of the former self-employed, and are they really the most threatened group? You say your proposal doesn't have discriminatory effects. I see, therefore, that this is a discrimination against all state pension recipients and an increase in solidarity and discrimination against beneficiaries who have been paying longer and more. In my opinion, therefore, automatic preferential treatment of low pensions without examining the reasons which affected the amount, as I mentioned a moment ago, increases the risk of breach of constitutionality. You write that the proposal respects the general principles of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and does not conflict with the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. So it is clear here that we do not agree with each other, as she has spoken, and surely many of my colleagues will still be talking about it. Well, they won't, because it's totalitarian. And you've been mucked. There. And the Constitutional Court, as my colleague says, is fine. He hasn't given the list yet. I would still like to address your claim that your proposal is aimed at a certain one-off restriction on entitlement for people with medium and higher pensions. That's not true. That's not a one-time limit. It concerns the merit part of pensions, which will be forever lower for all other valorisations, for a group of people who have already been fundamentally negatively affected by the calculation of the pension by reducing borders. The more someone has done, the greater the decline in living standards awaits him in retirement without being able to do anything about it. The government is making his negative situation even worse. You are averse to ensuring the sustainability and financial stability of the pension system, but this argument of yours is used completely purposefully. Why didn't you deal with it in other cases when the government takes measures that make sustainability worse? Furthermore, the explanatory memorandum states that the proposed change will also have effects over the medium term. But its impact will gradually fall from the 33 billion mentioned in 2024 to zero. So I understand and understand it correctly that you're actually saying that the consolidation of the budget is going to be paid by the elderly? Are you serious?
