ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I would like you to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that my absence from today's meeting was requested by the following Members: Bartošek Jan for the whole Okamura Hayato, Bauer Jan for the whole working day, Bělicec Bělica for the whole working day, Bělobrádek Pavel for the whole Teleky Róbert for the whole working day, Bělohlávková Romana from 12.30 for the whole Ivo day, Bernard Josef for the whole Radek day for health reasons, Brabec Richard until 13 hours for the whole working day for the whole Tomio day, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole working day for the whole working day, Fiala Radim for the whole Okamura štolpa, Fischerová Romana from 11 David for the whole Zdenka day, Kohoutek Tomáš for the whole medical day without stating the reason, králíček Robert for the whole Němečková Crkvenjaš for the whole Karel David, liška Petr for the whole working day for the whole Berenika Ženíšek, Lochman Marek from 11 hours for the whole working reason, for the whole volný Jan, for the Potůčková Lucie day, Naiclerová Hana The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Balaš Vladimír from the whole day for health reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Kupka Martin from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Langšádlová Helena from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole day due to foreign travel and Šalomoun Michal from the whole day for personal reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, today is exactly the year when Russia launched a brutal aggression against Ukraine. It is a sad anniversary that, even when it happened, the day it happened, we adopted a resolution that we condemned it with clarity and unanimity. And we are certainly all proud of how Czech fellow citizens have shown a huge amount of solidarity and assistance that year. Last but not least, I thank you also for the fact that during that year we adopted not only the first resolution just a year ago, but also others, and we also listened together here to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenský. However, this aggression has brought many human victims, and the innocent victims, I would like to ask you to honor them all with a minute's silence. [[The MPs rose and a minute's silence honored Ukrainian victims.]] Thank you. Today's meeting should begin with points 102, House press 374, an amendment on employment and social security measures in the context of armed conflict in Ukraine, third reading; 105, proposal for election of members of the Council of the Czech Press Office - i.e. an election point. After discussing these two points, we would interrupt the 53rd meeting and, after a short technical break, we would start discussing the approved agenda of the suspended 54th meeting, i.e. the House Press 263. About 7 minutes after the end, or the interruption of the 54th meeting, but no later than 14 o'clock, we would continue the adjourned 53rd meeting by announcing the results of the election point 105, i.e. the election of the ČTK Council members. However, Members are now enrolled with an interest in changing the agenda. President Benda is the first to sign up, with priority rights followed by Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, because I suspect that today's second meeting will still have no great significance, as we experienced on Wednesday, so I would like to place three more points in the current meeting to do something before the Czech Council, something before we break up again at the extraordinary meeting. [[TV]] So I would suggest that point 2 today should be - a government bill amending the Investment Companies and Investment Funds Act, as amended, the House Press 238, the third reading - this should be included on Wednesday, missed, and further to continue with the points that were included yesterday, that is the government bill amending Act No. 258/2000, on the protection of public health, House press 311, second reading, and government bill amending Act No. 127/2005, on electronic communications, House press 346, second reading. It's the points we've already had. Then it would only follow the election of the ČTK Council and the interruption of the meeting and the continuation of the meeting extraordinary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u3	Thank you for the proposals. The following is Vice-President Dostálová, followed by President Schillerová of the applicants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u4	Madam President, fellow Members of the Government, thank you very much for the opportunity. I would like to basically join in the fact that today we will definitely discuss the Lex Act of Ukraine V, and I really care about what is going to happen, because, of course, the things that are set up in that law, that we want our Ukrainian fellow citizens to get to the labour market as quickly as possible and so on, so that the support from the state is really for the necessary time, with which we can certainly identify. On the other hand, we need to realise that this is about 70 000 people who are coming to our new housing market and the housing situation is really very serious, because we need to realise that the government is not just taking this step, but a lot of other steps that lead to people, unfortunately, no longer having mortgages, and they are looking for their housing in the rental housing market, of course, but we are simply not inflatable. The apartments are not here, and I would like to ask you very much if we could include the lex Ukraine in a point that would concern housing, so that we can discuss all the options that we can do for the municipalities, but also, of course, for entrepreneurs to start living here as soon as possible, because we are going to get into big trouble. All of this also makes it more expensive for students, so, of course, students will also start leaving the dorms looking for rental housing so that they can live in three or four in one apartment to break up their costs. And these are all things that affect each other, but these people won't have anywhere else to go. We just don't really have the offers that are. [[9.10 hours]] I've already talked about this several times, that we have to realize that we have about four categories. The first is property housing, but given the huge fall in the mortgage market, people aren't going to rush into our own housing right now. The second is cooperative housing. The state should really start some steps here as quickly as possible to allow the state or municipalities, for example, on state land and so on, to implement cooperative construction as quickly as possible. The third is the rental housing itself to really help municipalities start housing. I know that interest rates are just very high today, I know that The Ministry of Regional Development is preparing some steps for rental housing despite the National Recovery Plan, but of course all this will still take time and we must realise that today the municipalities are facing a huge increase in energy prices and so on. That means today, for the council to approve loans for rental housing, it's going to be very problematic. So once again talk about whether there would be any way in which the construction program was set up, for example, that partial subsidy, partial loan amount and so on. The last of them are municipal apartments. I have to say that the fact that around 600,000 flats were sold in the 1990s, today we all know that this was probably not the way in the right direction. On the other hand, the City Hall of Prague, for example, has about 30,000 flats that it could immediately use on the housing market, but they also need help with reconstruction and so on, because Prague also has enormous costs with other related things, and housing is constantly shifting and it is said that the situation is not yet so tragic. But again, it is on the basis of today's probably approved Lex Ukraine V that another wave of people will simply plunge into the housing market itself. I don't think it's a controversial issue, that it's across the political spectrum, that municipalities can help, that the state can help, but we should start talking about it in some sense. And, of course, to help with property housing. Once again, I intercede for this, let's appeal to the Ministry of Regional Development, let's discuss with the banks that multiannual mortgages will be made, let's spread out payments to young people for more years. Today we have a mortgage maturity of about 25 years. If it's 40 years, the home payment will be reduced immediately. It's the multigenerational mortgages. We're dealing with multigenerational houses. We're just based here on post-communist times, building multigenerational houses where one senior lives in the house today. And if we were to help these people divide the housing into more separate housing units, it would once again be very helpful to the housing market, where we're really going to get into an unsolvable situation in a few moments. So please place Ukraine as a point after the Lex Act today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u5	Let me ask you one more question, Madam Vice-President, please, would the name of that point be exact?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u6	Living in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u7	Living in the Czech Republic. Thank you. So I, before I say another word, have here announced a finding which may not concern any of the Members. There was a little bag of medicine in the foyer that says "afternoon." There's a couple of pills in there, and you might miss them. If any of you are concerned, Ms. Director Brázdilová will direct you in the foyer. We will now proceed to the next performer, this is President Schillerová, followed by Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The title of the point that I would like to include - and I am taking advantage of the fact that the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs are sitting here - is Education and I propose to include it today after the fixed points. I heard the speech of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka at a press conference after the meeting of the Government. I got a little lost in it, but I'm asking, and I believe I'll get a clear answer. It is educational that our government has passed in the last parliamentary term, which would not have passed - yes, it was a parliamentary proposal, but without the votes of the members of the ANO movement, Minister, who are talking to me from behind, it would never have passed - yes, it went through with the votes of the KDU-ČSL. I guess that was everyone who voted for it. I'm asking, is he in danger? I have read your comments a month ago, and I think that your President of Mr Marek Výborný's House of Deputies' statement, that if it had been for education, you would have linked your involvement in the government. So something's changed since you admit that education is in danger? I'm actually asking what KDU-ČSL policy is now. I couldn't care less, of course, but I'm thinking, is there still politics, or is there still a KDU-ČSL party, or is there just ODS policy? You are the main protagonist, actually the one pushing down and slowing down the valorization for the elderly, we have this debate here next week, the government even in a state of legislative emergency, maybe yesterday - I refer you to the performance of several constitutional renowned lawyers within the main news time, who expressed themselves and certainly did not comment positively on the fact that you are pushing it with the state of legislative emergency - I read your comments yesterday in monitoring, when there is no slowdown in pension valorization, it will not be my parent, my esteemed colleague Aleš Juchelka, shadow minister of work and social affairs, spoke about it yesterday, and now I have heard your statement that perhaps there is a threat to education and education. I believe you also have a lot of messages and e-mails from people like me. I remember your efforts in the last parliamentary term to promote education, I remember the debates. They were difficult, they were difficult with me, I understand, but politics is always a matter of compromise. Finally, the votes - because they were the most - have passed for the YES movement. I remember you saying here, "Doesn't that mother deserve it? Sometimes, of course, it's Daddy, so I don't touch anyone, but most of them are women. According to the figures I read in the public sources of the Czech Social Security Administration, 1.4 million mostly women applied for January alone and covered 3 million children. That's what I get from public sources. That means it's not a small number. And you've always said, "My mom doesn't deserve it, doesn't she deserve that 500 bucks for raising this company as a taxpayer?" When I put it this way, but of course a citizen of this beautiful country. So what changed that suddenly you see it differently? You just don't speak for those you spoke for earlier today, for those who are socially weak, who are no longer able to take care of themselves, for seniors, for families with children. Who are you speaking for now? But I don't really care, that's your problem, and one day you'll answer when the time comes. I'm more interested in what you're up to with education. Tell us fair and square so we know it hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u9	Mr Juchelka, who already has a five-minute limit, is now followed by Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have seen several times in the media - and yesterday, for example, as the headline of one mainstream media - what I really no longer like in society, and that is when this government coalition pits against each other different groups of people, young people against the old, for example, I quote Minister Jurečka at this point: When pensions grow at this rate, I have no room to raise a parent. But on the other hand, I have also noted in the media that Minister Jurečka is in favour of raising the parental contribution, as well as other parties in the government coalition, such as the Pirates. [[9.20 hours]] I just want to say that, at this point, inflation is, of course, increasing costs not only for seniors but also for small families with children. Let's just remember, when Mommy's on parenting, she's only got one income with her parent. When they have two young children, for example, are responsible, they have a mortgage, and they want to secure themselves in some way for the future, for example, because there is really a pension reform going on, and each of my generation of 40s and, of course, younger ones will have to think about their own circles within the ongoing pension system, so I think it would be appropriate to talk about the amount of parental contribution. I'm not talking about an increase, I'm talking about the amount of parental allowance. I would just hate to - and I need, of course, to confirm it from the mouth of the government coalition - to oppose the individual groups. I can't imagine a mother coming to her grandmother with a baby, and they're actually gonna blame each other, I'd almost say, "So if she's gonna raise your pension, mom, I'm not gonna get raised by a parent, what's your grandkids got to say?" Once again, when pensions grow at this rate, I have no room to raise a parent. And I would like to remind you that pensions are simply and simply due to the law that it is not some government here or anyone in the Chamber of Deputies. We have, of course, already had an increase in parental contribution in the eKLEP House since June last year, it is the House Press 234. So if the government coalition wants to do this, it can lean on this House's press, we can discuss it, put amendments, of course, but nothing has to be written anymore. It is also with valorization and we can open it today, which I propose, of course, as another point right after the Lex Ukraine. It's House Press 234. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková therefore follows and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u12	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the shadow of the government's trying to reduce the valorization of pensioners, their pensions and claims, I would also like to talk about rising food prices, because food is one of the most important ingredients that even pensioners, of course, threaten. I understand - I've heard from the Minister's mouth that we're gonna break 20 grand's pension, but I'm sorry, not everyone can reach it, and the pensioner who lives alone will definitely have problems, especially if he's still addicted to some medication. Last Sunday, please, a discussion was held by representatives of the Agrarian Chamber, the Trade and Tourism Union, who were also second-guessed by the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, and here it has become clear that the largest retail chains, namely from Schwarz, Rewe, Tesco, Albert, Globus, add to the prices of farmers and food professionals an immense margin and quite clearly advance in this agreement with others, from our country they export tens of billions a year on dividends, but we will only cut in the budget, we will not deal with where we would spare how we would fill the Treasury. It seems that according to current laws, these are completely elusive. The Ministry of Agriculture wants to hold a round table to find out after so many years that they exploit their dominant position on the market in the vertical chain, realise almost 80 percent of the total turnover and, unlike everyone else involved in food production and distribution, they still achieve enormous profits. Unfortunately, the Department of Agriculture made the mistake of sending a man on TV with an empty head for so long as he'd told us that he didn't really have any strong arguments about prices. And I would like to talk about all this here, because of course this isn't just for the elderly, this is also against families with small children, because I don't want to live to see my mom talk about whether she's gonna buy a baby two rolls or one. And you don't care about the rising food prices, you don't do anything about it, and you have a choice. Already the law on significant purchasing power, which we did just so the way not to say, there you could kind of step on strings on a perk. And I would just like to point out here one more thing that the State Agricultural and Food Inspection has done control in the chains, and I would like the Minister to read the results of this inspection to see what he is feeding our citizens and what it looks like behind the scenes of these chains. So we're still chasing the little ones, we're stepping on the elderly, families that can't defend ourselves, and we're cutting the budget, but we're not looking for where we can find the money. So I would be very happy if we could put this point on today's agenda as a third point for solid points, and we would talk about it because we don't talk about it on the Committee on Agriculture, the Minister doesn't come, and I see that he isn't even able to defend his ministry and the actions that everyone here is expecting on television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u13	The following is Mrs Pastuchová, followed by Mr Síla. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe somebody would expect me to say I'm here the fifth time, and I'm gonna propose a point on the situation at the Labor Office. I won't, because as we all know, Mr. CEO has been called off and we'll see what Mr. Trpkoš will show us there. But I have called my point, always suggested by my colleague, through you, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, the lack of medicine, and I will justify it specifically by my own experience. I got two prescription pills from my doctor again, I went to the pharmacy, they replaced me with one medicine, which is fine, the other drug told me it was a long-term blackout, so I could order another pharmacy. I'm talking about it because I don't have a problem with it, I have a car, I'm healthy, I can go around it, and it's not an acute disease that's limiting me by having high temperatures, but it's also important medicine. But why do I say that? I'm also saying that in the context of this, I don't want to touch any colleagues and colleagues here who, in fact, are now showing up in the media that... I think it does not do well for us Members in the image of citizens, when I read that Members want more time for families. I understand that I have an adult child, but I know that they are mothers with children, but there are 30 Members who write that they want more friendly conditions for the House's negotiations. I understand that, but I think it would be nice now if these 30 Members were more concerned about dealing with the situation and creating more friendly conditions for our mothers, so that there are enough medicines and what should be. It's not about moms, it's about seniors, and the fact that mothers and seniors are desperately orbiting pharmacies, it goes on here - the minister answers how many thousands of drugs and boxes have come, but the situation from yesterday's situation is still the same, there are still drug deficiencies, there are still long-term blackouts, and I think it hasn't changed much. So I would also recommend to colleagues and colleagues who now want to be more friendly, perhaps for themselves as mothers, negotiations in the Chamber of Deputies, that we should not be thinking of ourselves right now, but rather of those mothers and citizens of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u15	And do you want to place it firmly?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u16	Yes, Madam President, I would like to make that the second point, because the first was after Lex Ukraine V.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u17	Okay, thank you. Mr Síla will now come forward with his proposal, followed by Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a whole new item for the debate, namely the Government is trying to take some of the pensions from people if you would write it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u19	I'm so sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, I'm gonna ask my colleagues for peace and you for a repeat, because I confess, the noise is so high, I've only heard a part of it. The government...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u20	The point is, the government is trying to take some of the people's pensions. [[Thank you.]] No one reasonable in today's situation will deny the need to limit budget expenditure, but it is the Prime Minister's general justice. The government is putting the company ahead of the facts. Why did she allow an increase in the salaries of constitutional officials when she had to know that a dramatic increase in spending could not bear the budget? Why did the Ministry of Finance submit, as it turns out, a completely fictitious draft state budget without sufficient reserves? Why did Prime Minister Fiala promise not to touch the pension and to increase the retirement age? [[9.30 hours]] The government's decision to reduce the statutory remuneration of pensions in June takes place after, just seven weeks ago, with reference to the need to comply with the law, MEPs and government have raised salaries by an average of 12.7 percent since 1 January 2023. We have also improved judges, prosecutors at all levels of the courts and prosecutors. The law is the law, so what can be done? Only a few weeks later, after the government and its puppeteers managed to push Pavel into the presidential chair, the government is also proposing a change to the law in force, but which it wants to achieve the opposite - a reduction in old age and other pensions. This discrepancy in the laws in force, when one must follow and one must not, Prime Minister Fiala did not have the courage to explain the strongest voter group of pensioners. Instead, he merely pointed out, and I quote: "We felt the need to reach into the mechanism by Valorisation, also in terms of general justice, intergenerational solidarity and sustainability for the future." Explaining the unsustainableness and progress of the government he switched to Minister Jurečka, whom, by the way, I do not envy this role. He has performed the task as well as from the history of a well-known politician: a hundred-fold repeated lie becomes the truth. They repeatedly claim that there is no reduction in pensions, not to mention that the failure to comply with the applicable law on the increase of pensions is actually equivalent to its reduction. But Minister Jurečka's intentions are not really about reducing pensions, but only about not increasing according to the law. He knows that this is actually an indisputable real reduction in pensions relative to the increase in the prices of the consumer basket of pensioners. But the assignment is clear. A man with a leather bag can't pass, so we'll shoot - guilty, not guilty. It's not a reduction, it's not a reduction, it's not a reduction. Hopefully he's counting on old-time old-timer dementia who might believe him. I apologize to the elderly. The current government knew from at least the middle of last year that pension valorization would be expensive, but with the announcement of a reduction, it waited until after the presidential election. At the same time, it calculates that it is still a long way from the proper parliamentary elections, and people will forget about this misfortune. For you in the right half of the hall it is a clever tactic, but for other people it is a cynical lie at the level of the worst populists. I understand that the government has decided to prefer anything to its own pensioners who deserve their dignified pensions by working hard throughout their lives. The current government is introducing this measure against those who do not have the opportunity to make money in a different way and defend themselves. It's legal from the point of view of law, but it's inhumane from the point of view of present cost. I just hope these people don't forget the next parliamentary election, and if they do, we'll remind them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u21	Thank you. You didn't mention that in your five-minute post.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u22	I would like to place this as the second point after lex Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u23	Thank you. Mr Nacher is now on the list, followed by Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam President. It's gonna be pretty easy for me. I will take advantage of the fact that the chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, assigned or proposed to assign some points, among other third readings, so I would have allowed it to be completed. We have a third reading of press number 48 in that program, an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, so if we were to pre-schedule it, I'd take the liberty of putting it behind those Mark Benda pre-schedules. That means, I guess there's a third reading about the investment companies, I'd put the print 48 in for that. That's how it goes in the program. What's going on? I won't hold up. We simply discussed the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure here at first and second reading. It is, say, a strengthening of the consumer's position in that, after he has exhausted his dispute before an out-of-court authority and has been brought to trial, the court will be obliged to inform the out-of-court authority that there is a trial. That's a simple way of putting it. We've been talking about this place from the left, from the right. I think that if there is no more discussion about this - which I do not even require anymore, and I think that everything has been said about it, even twice, on the constitutionally-legal committee and the subcommittee on consumer protection - we can do this quickly and nothing should be delayed. In other words, I'm assigning print 48 - what serial number, now I don't know - for the third reading that Marek Benda assigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u25	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová with two applications. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u26	Madam President, honourable members of the government - I see only one member of the government, not yet on the bench - my fellow Members, I would like to place item 49, House press 54. It is a proposal that was already made in November 2021. It is Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal to issue a law amending the Act on salaries and other obligations relating to the exercise of the office of officials of the State, and this law, in fact, provides a freeze of the salaries of politicians for a period of five years. This law has been discussed by the government many months ago, but this government and this House do not want to put it on the agenda, it does not want to assign it, it is still the 49th point of this meeting at the moment. It really seems to me that what is going to happen here next week about the Pension Insurance Act, about the law that the government approved per rollam, has also approved that this will be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. This government, which has historically the most ministers who can't fit into the benches for them. This government, which has the most deputies and had to change its law of service in order to bring in many other political representatives. We all know that the political deputy is equal to the newsstand, he may have no expertise, he has no competence, he doesn't drive anybody. But he has the most advisors - for example, we have now learned that the Minister of the Interior has 12 paid advisors. This government, which has historically the most government agents. We're about to have an agent for everything. Almost every government is being dealt with by another government agent. It really seems very unfair to me that the government is coming up with the fact that it will not give what the seniors are entitled to. That means some sort of valorisation has been approved, and he wants to take it away from them retroactively during the year. At the same time, he doesn't want us to freeze our politicians' salaries. I would just like to say again - because I have two minutes - illustratively that from 1 January, for example, the President of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the Senate increased his salary by more than 12 percent, to 274,000 a month, and from the Minister he increased by 22 100 to 195 000 crowns a month. And the valorisation that was supposed to take place under a valid law, with a senior who received a pension of around 10,000 today, should be increased by CZK 500 to CZK 10,500 according to the new proposal. [[9.40 hours]] I think that this is very unfair to the citizens and I assume that this Chamber of Deputies will face this and that it will place this point as today's item in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, after the Lex Ukraine V. So I would ask you, Madam President, if you could register the transfer of this item on the freeze of politicians' salaries as the second point after the firmly ranked point of the Lex Ukraine V. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u27	I'm assuming another application, so I'm gonna give you another five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. The second point I would like to include concerns a situation of legislative emergency. It is absolutely outrageous that the government not only came forward to amend the pension insurance law, which per rollam voted on, but also voted on the state of legislative emergency. Unfortunately, this state of legislative emergency has been confirmed by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, who sent us on Monday that, on the basis of the Government's proposal, he declares in accordance with § 99 para. 1 a state of legislative emergency which may be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are substantially threatened. I am simply convinced that the President of the Chamber of Deputies should not have declared this state of legislative emergency, and I think that even today the Chamber of Deputies should include this item, it should vote because there are, there are no exceptional circumstances, there are no exceptional circumstances for such a state of legislative emergency - and, of course, the President has declared it from 20 February to 23 March, and has therefore declared it because it must be agreed on the pension insurance law by 21 March or by some date. If they didn't make it, then all the seniors would have gotten the valorization that they're legally listed today and to which they're entitled. So I ask you, Madam President, whether it would be possible to include a second item called the State of Legislative Emergency and whether it could then be included as the point I want to put forward - a freeze on politicians' salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u29	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Babka with his application, followed by Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, I certainly won't be long. I will follow up on what I have already said and proposed yesterday, and this is a priori of four points concerning the annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Television. I'm just gonna make it quick to repeat the reason why I'm suggesting it. We have an extraordinary meeting here, and perhaps at this meeting on the programme, the law on Czech Radio and Czech Television is a novel that changes the number of councillors on Czech Television and changes the way the CEO of Czech Television and Czech Radio is elected. We in the debate on this point have primarily two concerns, and one of those concerns is that the adoption of this law at the moment when the competition and the ongoing tendering procedure are already open is impossible, in our opinion. The second concern is that five coalitions three weeks ago in the inclusion and approval of annual reports on Czech Television and Czech Radio included the annual report programme of 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. According to us, the reason why it did not include the annual reports for 2020 and 2021 is that the electoral committee for two of these reports, i.e. for the annual report on the activities of Czech Television for 2020 and for the annual report for 2021 on the activities of Czech Television, the electoral committee recommended not to approve these two reports. If two consecutive reports are not approved, the House may withdraw the Council of Czech Television or any other advice, but the Council of Czech Television, in this case. Of course, I think we have the right concern that this might happen. However, these concerns were distracted on Wednesday during an emergency meeting by the chairman of the TOP 09 MEP Jan Jakob, who said here on the microphone that the five-wheelers obviously do not want to call back the advice, any advice, as a whole, and justified this also by fully releasing this possibility in the amendment on the Czech Television Act. We placed these points here yesterday, unfortunately it didn't reach them. And I would ask you, Madam President, and I think that we could vote on my proposal en bloc, because the proposals are closely related, and I would like them to be included in such a way that they are all included. In that case, I will ask you to include the House press 125, the House press 126, 188 and 277 today as firmly classified points. It is therefore the annual activity reports, the management of Czech Television for 2020 and 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u31	Thank you. The next is, therefore, Mr Feranec, followed by Mrs Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we place a new point on the agenda of today's meeting, as I suggested on Tuesday. The title of this point is the cancellation of the state of legislative emergency and I propose to include it as the second item of the programme, respectively after the negotiation of the law of lex Ukraine. I'll go back to those reasons again. I'd split it into two groups, two groups of reasons. The first are legislative reasons, the second is social reasons. Legislative reasons - we say from the outset that the conditions of the Rules of Procedure have not been met here, namely § 99 para. 1 for declaring a state of legislative emergency. This means that there are really no exceptional circumstances - when fundamental rights, freedoms, security, or major economic or substantial economic damage are threatened. This opinion persists, however, the state has been declared, it continues, it already brings its consequences today, we have already discussed it, and I think that the sooner we cancel it, the better, because, of course, if you push through the law in a state of legislative emergency, it will undoubtedly end up in the Constitutional Court, undoubtedly, and we can assume that in the spirit of other Constitutional Court findings, its abolition is really a constitutional Constitutional Court. Of course, this will create legislative confusion, uncertainty. [[9.50 hours]] As I said before, we shouldn't wait until Tuesday to discuss this, because the announcement of an emergency already brings consequences today. The right of Members of the Social Committee to deal closely with this issue has been severely restricted. Attention - and it was prevented from the other Members to decide that, for example, another committee should discuss this, certainly a budget committee, and therefore the rights of Members were indeed restricted, in a situation where there were no grounds for this. And I'm just saying, the sooner we cancel it, the less damage it can do to the future. I'd call other reasons social. It was a presidential election, the campaign was heated, the company somehow split up, and we all said, including the five-calice, how we're going to unite society, how we want to unite it, how we want to fill in the ditches that were created, and we're starting with the fact that we're going to submit a law that keeps dividing this society. And who divides it? In this sense, as well as the justification for what you're saying is that there is economic damage, that valorisation will cause economic damage, so you're actually saying that the valorisation of pensions, the fact that pensioners get what they're entitled to, is economic damage. This is just a step towards the fact that pensioners are actually causing economic damage because they want pensions to which they are entitled. You're actually breaking the social contract, which is the law. The sooner we do that, the less damage we cause. I am running out of time, so I repeat: to reintegrate the item of cancellation as a new point of legislative emergency and to include it as the second point of the program, respectively after discussing lex Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u33	Yes, thank you. Mrs Adámková follows and Mr Farhan will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to ask you to include an extraordinary point which would be called Quality Care Security in the Czech Republic and, if accepted, then as the second point after Lex Ukraine. Reason: health care affects each and every one of us. If we're not healthy, we can't even work. And for your information, the comprehensive care that we provide in the Czech Republic, and I am very proud that we are solidarity in providing health care, must also have some options, which means that not everyone gets everything for free, but you know that some things are being paid, some things are being paid, and of course the system must also have something to be paid for. Complex care means that we provide both nonpharmacological care, i.e. regimenal measures, and pharmacological care. Systemic measures, for your information, are very important for all patients with musculoskeletal disease, for patients with cardiovascular disease, for patients with diabetes mellitus and of course others. They're very important to children with speech defects, with posture defects. And we're starting to have a problem. He's escalated the problem. [[Noise in the hall.]] These are the findings of my colleagues and patients over the last two weeks, which is why I want you to be familiar with them in order to pay attention to them. This is not a topic for interpelling one minister, because it affects the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs, possibly industry and trade and others. Allow me a few more examples. What we need, please, and you know that we've been doing a very long time here, and you know the only thing that woke up the debate yesterday, and that's logopedia. For your information, the speech, we were talking about school and clinical. But unfortunately...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u35	Yes, Madame. I'll ask my colleagues to move into the lobby if they want to talk. And I'm going to ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u36	Thank you very much, Madam President. My vocal fund isn't for me to handle my colleagues here in any way. Thank you so much. As for the speech, I would like to turn your attention not only to the child's age - of course, this is very important, but be careful, we really need for very early care of patients after a stroke. And there, if the care is not very early, unfortunately, there is often nothing we can do, which is very, very difficult, because the stroke is not only given to an old but unfortunately young person. I have 40-year-olds in my office who quit, they have an expressive aphasia, that's the state where you want to say something, he'd even know what in his head, but, in layman's terms, there's something completely different about the language. We have a series of degenerative brain diseases, last week, Mrs. 36 years... And really what's in there, the speech therapist invited her to the first free term, it was August 14th, we have February. That means we have to talk about it here, there's a problem, and we can't pretend it's not. I'm warning you, these are still things that this man doesn't actually pay for. We have another problem here, and this is physiotherapy because, of course, there is no problem in some regions, there is a problem in some regions. And once again, a person who needs physiotherapy can't wait three to four months, because then the finding that the doctor is sending him is no longer valid, and everything is completely different. So we have to realize how we want to do this, whether to attract both physiotherapy and nutritional therapists in teaching, that means whether to make money or bonuses more attractive. We need to talk about this. And as for the pharmacological part of the treatment, please, nicely, what we need to discuss - and once again it would be necessary to go through the entire spectrum - is the authorisation of certain medicines where there are expertises that may not regulate something. And people, of course, by stopping having the money to pay and, for example, to drive a car from a small town or a small village, can't do anything else, they're starting to pick up medicines they can pay for. And it's often not the most appropriate. Another thing, of course, is the lack of some components and medicines in our market. We need to talk about this. The situation isn't resolved yet. Yesterday, big pharmacies told me that they'd like to do things for kids like ointments, cones, but they don't have components. And that's a big problem. At present, I do not see any project that would put a stop to this on the market. Pharmacies don't have essential components, even if they know what they should have, and we do that nothing happens. That's completely wrong. It's not responsible for our patients, for our people, and we really need to talk about it. Another thing we have to say is tertiary prevention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u37	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Farhan followed by Mr Brázdil. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u38	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read here a new point concerning the lack of medicine and the incompetent procedure of the Minister of Health. With his chaotic, confused, unintelligible statements, the Minister of Health is putting us all into uncertainty. In his conflicting information, when he informs us of what he has provided, what he has imported, when he has imported it, no one knows anymore. In these difficult times, we would need and expect a competent government to receive accurate information that will calm the situation and soothe what is happening around it. This government and its vice-chairman, Professor Válek of Health, do not behave like this and contribute to escalation and uncertainty with his incompetent and contradictory statements. I'm not going to talk about the Ministry sleeping in anymore. I will no longer talk here about the fact that doctors were forced to prescribe broad-spectrum antibiotics, as narrow-spectrum antibiotics were not available. I will not even talk here about the increase in resistance, nor about the fact that our fellow citizens had to go abroad to buy medicines for their children and their grandchildren. But what needs to be talked about is how the Ministry is managed, how Professor Válek gives contradictory statements and how he is unable to answer simple questions. [[10.00 hours]] For example, at the last meeting, it was said when and how many drugs were imported. How is it that the Minister of Health doesn't know how much and when his ministry negotiated and imported it, when it imported it, what it imported and so on? I would like to quote the Minister's statement here - that was before Christmas: "The Ministry of Health negotiated on Tuesday the delivery of 300,000 extra packages of Nurofen for children to the Czech Republic." I have not noticed anywhere when these additionally negotiated 300,000 packages of Nurofen arrived in the Czech Republic. And there's nothing hard to say: they arrived then and then. And we say, "Thank you, Minister." At the last meeting, we further learned during the speech of the Minister that he had imported 400,000 packages of Nurofen. That same morning, we learned that he had imported half a million. I quote, "We brought in half a million, secured and brought in half a million of these packages." And I ask here, Minister, how can you say and manage the Ministry when you are able to say within one morning that you imported 400,000 and then 500,000? It's 20 percent! Can you imagine if someone cut your salary from 20 percent? Would you notice that? And you won't notice that here? It doesn't make me mention his Twitter account: "Antibiotic tablets have been consumed 50 percent more year on year." End of quote. Mr. Secretary, where did you draw? From what sources? I invite you here to explain where you got these numbers. I have searched all available sources and will now tell you the imports of drugs into the Czech Republic, which means oral, which are consumed by mouth, and all antibiotic, as well as oral antibiotics - I rounded it up to thousands: 2018 - 7 451 000, 2019 - 7 124 000, 2020 - 6 014 000, 2021 - 5 950 000 and 2022 - 7 298 000. That's 18.5% year-on-year! And we're not even close to those prepandemic flights! All forms: 2018 - 15 600 000, 2019 - 15 400 000, 2020 - 14 075 000, 2021 - 13 901 000 and 2022 - 15 397 000. That's 10 percent year-on-year! Where did you get your numbers? I open the News and I read - quote: "The consumption according to Minister War grew by 300,000 packages year on year, corresponding to an increase of 47 percent. " Where did you get those numbers? Show us the chart, where is it? I mean, I have different numbers, we all have different numbers, and you're just telling us this! I just don't get it anymore. Plus, Professor Dušek is behind you on the illustration photo. For proboha's sake, let him tell you how many drugs have been imported into the Czech Republic. [[with a sigh]] What did the Prime Minister say? He thanked you on Twitter for being successful... It just seems like a confused, unintelligible thing to me. I think, Minister, that you're in a state where you don't know what you're saying, because if you did, you could never say that as a health minister. Therefore, allow me to load a point that I called the Imprecise Information of Minister War when providing drugs, and to place it as the last point of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u39	Mr Brázdil will appear and Mr Jakob is the last to be applied for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good Friday, and also allow me to come forward with a request for a point. Recently, a few minutes ago, we were standing here holding a minute's silence to respect the fallen in Ukraine. I will add: Recently, Prime Minister Fiala spoke of us being at war. The Chief of Staff has recently stepped up and says: The war is on the threshold of our republic, we must prepare. Secretary of Defense Mrs. Černochová speaks: The war is at the door. And in this spirit, I would like to come before you and ask you for the inclusion of the Health Care Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. Fire Department, Police of the Czech Republic are state. In the event of any conflict, surely their management from the Ministry of the Interior will be simple, across the whole Republic, while ambulances are fourteen times different, fourteen originals and they will be haunted in the event of any conflict will be much worse. I would also like to include this for Madam President and President - I would like to include it, i.e. the Health and Safety Service of the Czech Republic, anywhere, as a last point, and I would like to put some space on the Grémium afterwards, if you would like to include it there or onde, but just to have a conversation, a subject like - and I agree with it - Minister Válek is talking about the fact that he is going to, in a legislative plan, to set up a law that will change the sanitary services from the regions and become one state. [[Emphasis.]] Why? Because we have experience after covid, how difficult it is to manage them, and that it is not good for it to be 14 different times, so in the same spirit to unite at least the driving or somehow put it together. And I know that the Minister cheers us to have it just as much as the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic, such as the Police of the Czech Republic, as well as the Health Care Rescue Service of the Czech Republic, i.e. three components of the Integrated Rescue System. I hope it's nothing or political, so I'd like to ask you to put it on the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u41	Thank you, too, and the last person to sign up is President Jakob with priority rights, and then the vote on the programme will be followed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleague Babek for his proposal, which he beat me to a bit. Anyway, I'm going to allow myself to modify it a little bit, so I'm going to make a little counterproposal. The annual reports, as indicated by them, the resolution from the electoral committee, i.e. the recommendations for non-approval, are not quite simple, even the discussion will not be the fastest, because I, as rapporteur for one, my colleague Lacina, will undoubtedly have to explain why the committee decided so, and those reasons are the procedures of the then Czech Television Council, so it will certainly take us some time. [[Members come to the hall after the engagement, a lot of noise in the hall.]] At the same time, we have here at the extraordinary 54th meeting of the amendment, which proposes the possibility mentioned after the approval of the annual Councils as a whole to withdraw. That's out of the law, and that's an option if we pass the law, it won't be in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u43	I apologise, Mr President, for the interruption, but as the number of Members in the Chamber increases, noise is increasing accordingly. So let me ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u44	I repeat that the coalition at this time has no reason to dismiss any media council as a whole. Personally, as rapporteur in this regard, I am willing to make a helpful gesture in this discussion, and I believe that the opposition will also make a helpful gesture in discussing the amendment, the substance of which, among other things, is that it will no longer be possible to dismiss the advice as a whole. Therefore, I would like to put forward a counter-proposal in order to place the four points, 108, 109, 112 and 118, i.e. Parliamentary prints 125, 126, 188 and 277, firmly at today's meeting as a whole, but only after the 54th meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-000-000.u45	Thank you, and since we have exhausted all the applications for the agenda - I am still checking whether this is the case - we will go to the vote on the proposals tabled. I have called my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and will repeat the individual proposals in the order they were presented. First, Mr Benda suggested that paragraph 94, namely the House Press 238, which is the amendment to the Investment Companies Act, at third reading, be discussed today as the second item, i.e. after point 102 of the Lex Ukraine. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Who's against it? Voting number 61, 164 in attendance, for 154, versus 1. The motion was accepted. [[10.10 hours]] Mr Benda's next proposal was paragraph 3, namely the House Press 311, on the protection of public health, second reading, for the previous point, which we have now included firmly, i.e. for the point - printing 238. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's in favour of putting this point firmly? Who's against it? Voting number 62, 164 in attendance, for 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. And President Benda's last proposal was item 4, House Press 346, on electronic communications at second reading, for the previous point that we have just approved, namely the House Press 311. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 63, 164 in attendance, for 160, versus none. The motion was accepted. Vice-President Dostálová proposes the inclusion of a new point entitled Housing in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 64, 164 in attendance, for 71, against 70. The motion was denied. President Schillerová proposes the inclusion of a new point under the name Education. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 65, 165 in attendance, for 70, against 81. The motion was denied. The next proposal was made by Mr Juchelka, namely the prioritization, or the fixed inclusion of paragraph 67, by House Press 234, namely on State social support, as the first point after point 102, i.e. Lex Ukraine. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of a fixed classification of this point? Who's against it? Voting number 66, 165 in attendance, for 71, versus 85. The motion was denied. Mrs Balaštíková also proposes the inclusion of a new point under the name Food Price. I'm opening the vote on the inclusion of a new item and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 67, 165 in attendance, 71 in favour, 82 against. The motion was denied. Mrs Pastuchová proposes the inclusion of a new point under the name Lack of Drugs. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 164 in attendance, 70 in favour, 82 against. The motion was denied. Mr Síla has proposed a new point for the Government to try to take some of the people's pensions. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 69, 165 in attendance, for 69, versus 86. The motion was denied. Mr Nacher proposes a firm inclusion of paragraph 93, i.e. the House Press 48, which is the amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, in the third reading, after the printing of 346, i.e. in the third reading block, as the last fixed item so far. I said, who's in favour of the vote? Who's against it? Voting number 70, 165 in attendance, for 137, versus 8. The motion was accepted. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová proposes first point 47 - it is already 47th, not 49th, we just checked it, that is a change from what you said - but press 54, which is the Act on salary associated with the exercise of the office of State officials, as the first point today after paragraph 102. And I hear there's an interest in checking out, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign in. The number of entries has stabilized. I am opening the vote on the solid inclusion of this item. It's the same thing. Who's against it? Voting number 71, 162 in attendance, 69 in favour, 76 against. The motion was denied. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová also wants to include a new point, which is called the State of Legislative Emergency. We're voting. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 162 in attendance, for 68, against 83. The motion was denied. Mr Babka proposed to place four points of the annual report on Czech Television firmly, but the counterproposal fell from President Jakob. So first, we will vote on the counterproposal. It is in one block on voting on Houses points 108, House press 125; 109, House press 126; 112, House press 188; and 118, House press 277. Mr Jakob's counterproposal is to place these points firmly today after the 54th meeting. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this firm assignment? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 162 in attendance, 93 in favour, 1 against. The motion was accepted. Mr. Babka's proposal is therefore unvoting. Mr Feranec proposes the inclusion of a new point, namely the abolition of the state of legislative emergency. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, 163 in attendance, for 71, versus 85. The motion was not accepted. [[10.20 hours]] Mrs Adámková proposes a new point of Security of Quality Treatment in the Czech Republic. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 163 in attendance, for 72, against 84. The motion was not accepted. Mr Farhan proposes the inclusion of a new item under the title Imprecise Information of Minister War when providing medicines. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 163 in attendance, for 72, versus 85. The motion was denied. Finally, Mr Brázdil proposes the inclusion of a new point under the name Health Rescue Service of the Czech Republic. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 163 in attendance, for 69, against 84. The motion was denied. That's how we dealt with, if I'm not mistaken, all the proposed changes to the agenda. Isn't that right? We can proceed to discuss the fixed points and the first is the point number
