ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 55th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first and ask you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. At the beginning of today's meeting, I will read an apology about who will not attend today's meeting. The following Members have asked for an apology: For the whole day for health reasons, Mrs Andrea Babišová, Mr Marek Benda for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Milan Brázdil within 11 hours for work reasons, Mr Karel Bžoch for the whole day for health reasons, Mrs Lenka Schillerová from 9.00 to 11.00 for work reasons, Mr Aleš Dufek from 9.00 to 8.00 to evening for work reasons, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák for the whole day for medical reasons, Mr Petr Vrána from 10 to 16 hours for health reasons, Mr Tomáš Helebrant for the whole day for family reasons, Mr Miloslav Janulík for the whole working day for working reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová for the whole day for medical reasons, from 10 hours to 14 hours for working reasons, Mr Hayato Okamura for the whole day for medical Válková, Mrs Oulehlová Oulylová for the whole working day for family reasons, Mrs Petra, for the whole Ivo day for the whole week, for the Vondrák Ženíšek for the whole day for the sitting, Mrs Quittová, from 9.00 for the whole day for the whole day for the sitting, for the Tureček day for the whole day for the sitting, for the whole day for the whole day for the reasons of sitting, for the whole day for the reasons of sitting, for the reasons of sitting, for the reasons of sitting, for the 9.00 for the sitting. Minister Vladimír Balaš apologizes from the members of the government from 9 to 13 hours without giving any reason, Minister MikuláMikuláš Bek for the whole working day, Minister Jana Černochová for the whole day without giving any reason, Minister Helena Langšádlová for the whole day of the meeting for the whole working day, Minister Jan Lipavskýý for the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel and Minister Michal Šalomoun from 9 to 19 hours for the reasons of work. Mrs Alena Schillerová cancels her apology from today. We will now return to the 55th meeting. I just want to ask, because here I am registering President Cogan and Mrs Schillerová's preferential rights, do you agree that my colleague would complete her speech and then give priority rights? [[Agreed.]] Okay. Please, madam, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I promise to repeat only one sentence from the previous part of the speech, and I won't burden you with reading it all over again. The economic damage, according to the plaintiff, is due to the legislation in force, which is the valorisation of pensions. It's surprising to call it a liability to apply the law. Am I to understand that the very existence of pensioners brings economic damage to the state? Is that why it is necessary to intervene? Retirement workers spent their entire lives putting money into the pension system, so they obviously do damage to the state by being retired, taking a pension. Calling the legal valorisation of economic damage is, my fellow Members, pathetic. I personally see economic schools under the direction of this government elsewhere. Full mouth investigation and great work with finances. We hear that there are many civil servants, their numbers need to be reduced, especially officials, but let us remember the construction period of this government. Many requirements for functions, few places. Since the beginning of its reign, this government has declared how it will save on the state administration. It is she who has been setting up more and more places for her faithful since the first day in office. Immediately after the takeover of power by this government, for example, there was an increase in the number of employees by 74 persons at the Office of the Government. It was an apparatus for new ministers. That is what I call a reduction in the number of civil servants! Let's just remember last year. The coalition pushed through an amendment to the Civil Service Act. Why am I talking about this? Because once again, there was an increase in the number of management positions. Previously, there was a limitation in the Civil Service Act of the possibility of each minister to have only two so-called political Deputys. Until then, the deputy professors have become head of the sections and the number of deputy officers is now unlimited. There's a gentleman's agreement that there's a maximum of three, but this gentleman's agreement is not in the law. That is why this gentleman's agreement can change at any time. The increase in the number of managerial positions also does not contribute to the investigation in the state administration. Could it really not have been possible to prevent economic losses and to stop the number of Deputys? I think it did. In my opinion, a really increased number of deputy ministers is what is economic damage. Another effect of the amendment to the Civil Service Act is the cost of recompetitive most of the leading positions - and beware of this, it does not only concern ministries, but more than 200 offices, such as the Office for Nuclear Safety, the Puncture Office and the Cadastral Offices. Even there, almost all the leaders have to compete. Colleagues, especially those who were members of the Constitutional and Legal Committee during the last parliamentary term, may not have forgotten, or rather now they would like to forget the situation where, at that time, the Government Members of the ANO movement opposed the Ministry of Justice, which wanted to discuss press 1073, a government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, insolvency law, as amended. If you are interested, you will find that a resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee has been adopted, House Press 1073/1, which reads as follows: After the justification of Deputy Minister of Justice Mgr Michal Franěk, MP Mgr Marek Výborný and after the constitutional-legal committee debate I. Notes that the conditions of the state of legislative emergency in accordance with Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are not fulfilled in order to discuss the House's 1073 press; II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies discuss the standard legislative process within a short period of time under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. If you think I've been looking for a long time, you're wrong. To this day, I recall our response to the Ministry's efforts to discuss this law in a legislative emergency. Across the political spectrum, we agreed that the conditions of the legislative emergency were not fulfilled, and we said no. But you, my fellow five-wheelers, have not succeeded. Although I believe - I'm sorry, I haven't confessed to any of you - that some of you haven't been identified with it, you have raised your hand for it. You like to tell us that we don't think and just follow orders. However, the result of the vote has shown that it will probably not be that hot and will be a problem for you. [[9.10 hours]] But let us go back to what preceded the presentation of the press itself. I wonder when the government found out that it wanted to change the calculation of pension valorization. Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to reduce my speech slightly, which is why I will skip part of the speech and go back to what happened last week. Last week, the President of the House drew attention to the figures relating to the presentation of laws in a legislative state of emergency during the previous parliamentary term. There were more than that during this parliamentary term. For those who have problems with memory, I would like to remind you that there has been a pandemic in the world that has a significant impact on people's lives and health as well as on the economy. Comparing legislative states of emergency from the time of the covideo with the fact that the statutory valuation of pensions is to be fulfilled is an outrage. A comparison of incomparable, that's what it's called. In summary, the government has not properly dealt with the justification for the legislative state of emergency. The only reason for declaring a legislative emergency was the failure to submit a bill earlier so that it could be properly discussed and discussed. I would like to stress that the effort to limit the debate and the duration of the negotiations is not one of the reasons for which a legislative emergency can be declared. Since, in my view, there is no legislative emergency, so there is no essential condition for discussing the House of Press 392 in a shortened negotiation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u3	Thank you, too, Madame. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Cogan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion when assessing the terms and conditions for the discussion of the House of Press 392 in the short-term negotiations follows the previous one, in which we assessed for 24 hours whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts, even the relevant arguments that fall in the debate are virtually identical and repeat themselves, are very close to those arguments from yesterday. For example, colleagues here have repeated parts of the Rules of Procedure before me. I, too, also in the light of the fact that as many fellow Members as possible get the floor, will be able to propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Member may speak not more than twice in the present case, and at the same time I propose to limit the speaking time to 5 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u5	Thank you. It is a proposal that can only be filed counterproposals. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me briefly justify my counterproposal. Well, I don't even share the view that the same arguments are falling here. I sit here all the time, I think you don't, Mr President, through the Vice-President, so there are always new arguments. We don't usually get answers, so we keep asking. Yesterday, we heard from Minister Jurečka that a train couldn't be stopped. This argument will also be very well and quickly refuted. I don't want to propose any obstruction proposal here, I want to propose an appropriate proposal, which means you've proposed two or five minutes, so far I think in this shortened... or in the assessment in this section, the assessment of the conditions for discussion of the House press 392 in a brief hearing, has spoken since the morning, I don't know, eight or nine people, I look at my colleagues, applied for another 53. You're trying to shorten our rights again. Once again, you want to take away our right to express yourself. You want to shut us up again. It repeats the same thing that was here yesterday. Moreover, I believe that this is contrary to the law, contrary to the Rules of Procedure. This debate was held here yesterday, I refer to the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. You will argue here the opinion of the year-old legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies, I do not share it. I'm sure the Constitutional Court will judge us in the future. But right now, in the context of proportionality, and in some way, I'm trying to suggest that my fellow Members be allowed to limit speaking time to twice 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u7	Thank you. There was a counterproposal, there was no other proposal, in which case I'll go for it. I'm registering the check-out request, and I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. First, I will vote on the counter-proposal of President Alena Schillerová, which is that speaking time will be limited to twice 30 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 25, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 45, against 83. This proposal has not been agreed with. We will therefore now vote on President Cogan's first proposal, which is to limit speaking time to twice five minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 26, 136 Members are registered, for 92, against 44. The proposal was approved and the speaking time was limited to twice 5 minutes. We will therefore continue to discuss this now. Another with priority rights is registered by President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u9	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to ask you, if you need to discuss some issues, to discuss them in the lobby, and I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. Please, we can talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President, and for the peace of mind. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is our third meeting day, on which the whole YES movement, the entire ANO club, is fighting for that part of society that can no longer defend itself, literally day and night. It's the part of the population that's not afraid of the five-caliber. Which will no longer be protested and will not fill Wenceslas Square. That is why our movement here on this third day, three days in a row, and we are ready to fight on the other hand, so that the elderly can sleep peacefully and not have to worry that they will not have the essential needs of life. So they don't get stressed out that they're gonna spend the fall of their lives applying for welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u11	I'm sorry, Madam President, but especially in the right side of the hall, I'm going to ask for silence. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Because retirement is what retired people have already earned. Let us not forget that these are people who have worked their whole lives, contributed to the social system, paid taxes, raised a new generation, which is now economically active. So the state only gives them back what they've done in their lifetime. Five-calice pretends that a pension is a charity or a social benefit, but that is certainly not the case. There's a social agreement here. We have a duty today to provide our pensioners with a decent pension. The state is indebted and senior citizens are creditors. Period! [[9.20 hours]] At this point today, the current five-wheelers are trying to deprive our pensioners of roughly CZK 7,000 this year and then another year by 12,000. Often this sum is presented as a sort of increase in pension funds, that it is something they will have extra. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is far from it. For the year 2023 alone, these 7,000 are just supposed to compensate the elderly for their increased cost of living, which they have due to unprecedented inflation. I mean, no raises, but a call. In the Czech Republic, according to the latest statistics from Eurostat, we have the third highest level of consumer inflation from all countries of the European Union. If you have seen the graph, 19.1 percent is the third highest in the EU. Look at Spain for example, look at other countries and also see what governments of these countries are doing for their citizens, unlike this government of five-wheelers. In the latest figures, some of the Baltic countries are ahead of us, and we have reached the level of winners in a variable in which we should never have got there. Moreover, it is quite clear that inflation, which is driven by growth in food and energy prices, is the most pronounced impact on low-income groups. Members of the current five-calice, as well as government Members, are constantly repeating this week what a dizzying amount is said to be reaching a pension in our Republic. First of all, fellow Members, sometimes leave this bubble of House Street and go and have a look and chat with each pensioner. So I guarantee you, you won't really hear from them about the dizzying height of pensions. Pensioners' homes are also based on charts that you present here, clearly and by nature low-income households. Their income is significantly lower than that of the working population. Secondly, it is quite absurd how you present today the ratio of average pension to average wage. You are here today focusing on begging pensioners under this ratio rather than focusing your economic policy on increasing the wages and wages of the working population. You do not even realize that the problem is in the undergrowth of citizens' income, not in the level of pensions. Third, please read some data from the Czech Statistical Office on the consumer price index of pensioners' households - I repeat: pensioners. ČSÚ not only records changes in prices of classical Czech households, but also of Czech pensioners who have by their very nature different consumer baskets. I think we all understand. The average pensioner buys goods and services other than the average Czech household. In the long run, retirement households have higher prices per month for their consumer basket than standard Czech households. This just illustrates the inevitability to really match the increase in their cost of living. The difference of valorisation for Czech pensioners between 750 crowns and 1,750 crowns is absolutely essential. Moreover, from my point of view, the jargon that the Minister of Finance is applying towards pension valorizations is offensive. He's not only offensive to the retired but also to the Treasury officials. For he, the Minister of Finance, is acting as if he was extremely surprised by this valorisation. The Minister is in shock and out of control. He was supposedly unaware of this valorisation in advance. Well, that sounds very interesting to me personally. Because, personally, I have repeated the fact that there will be valorisation from this place several times. But I understand the Minister of Finance doesn't like to discuss with me and my repeated calls for an explanation of why he didn't include valorisation of pensions in 2023 in state budget expenditure, even if it was mandatorial expenditure, completely ignored. What I regret even more is that the Minister of Finance will not study the materials of his own resort. notabene, as former minister, I know that all these materials go through a board meeting conducted by the Ministry logically by the Minister of Finance, and that these materials are approved there. So there was no doubt a board meeting where the finance minister sat, if I even admitted that he didn't read where he was sitting and he was present, they were approved there. They had to be approved before they went to the government. It's so quaint that everyone's surprised right now. And I quote from the materials: the Ministry of Finance has already published in the fiscal perspective in November 2022 - I quote: "The prediction of expected price developments does not rule out further exceptional valorisation in the middle of next year. According to the current forecast, inflation could exceed 6 per cent in the June index session in January 2023.' This is the material of the Treasury itself, and I will repeat it forever. Infinity. Unfortunately, today the Minister will probably be making excuses for the fact that the fiscal outlook is quite extensive, yet he still has about 52 pages, and the Minister, who is known for his individual working pace, probably suffered from the dislike of studying the entire material. This was, of course, an exaggeration because such an approach would be absolutely unacceptable. You might argue that it's 6 percent, you might argue that it's just that the amount is higher now, but the difference we're talking about is 14 billion, 14,4, to be exact, for this year. Fortunately, for the next month, the National Budget Board, which means December 2022, pointed to this problem. An independent institution, undisputed. Many times during the last parliamentary term, you referred to her position. And this time, the National Budget Board's position was considerably shorter, it was about three sides, so I don't expect the Minister of Finance to meet him. Notabene was presented on the budget committee of this House, of which I am the Vice-President, where although the Minister of Finance was not present, because he goes there exceptionally unlike me, which I went there absolutely majority, but I absolutely exclude that he would not know this position. And again, and I will repeat this indefinitely, the National Budget Board explicitly points out in December 2022 - I quote: "The approved budget is also burdened with a high degree of uncertainty. The risk in the direction of a higher deficit is expenditure on exceptional pension valorisation in 2023. On the basis of expected inflation developments, it can be estimated that the 5% threshold of consumer price increases from the date relevant for the determination of the level of sound valuation will be exceeded in January 2023, which will mean the launch of an extraordinary valuation of pension insurance benefits in June 2023.' End of quote from the National Budget Board report. [[9.30 hours]] She even quantifys it to roughly CZK 20 billion. CZK 20 billion is also mentioned in the fiscal outlook of the Ministry of Finance. So you should have had 20 billion crowns in your budget. No discussion. The fiscal outlook of November 2022 even speaks of it as having them there. The bigger the surprise was that you didn't have them there. Then we would be talking about 14.4 billion here, and that would really be ridiculous in the total cost package of 2 trillion 223 billion if I'm not mistaken. Really ridiculous. I wonder how you'll quantify it. Moreover, Minister Stanjury, Minister of Finance, has been asked several times by journalists about this extraordinary valuation. So absent, Minister of Finance, you have nothing to be surprised about. The valorization was known in advance. All you've done is put on the words of the marqueetes to have a deficit of 295 billion. I've said it repeatedly. It's unrealistic. Yesterday, we saw a cashier's delivery. What a disaster! For February 119 billion deficit. February. Unbelievable. Worst ever result that exists in history. And a year-on-year deterioration of 74.4 billion. That's how you do it, you strategists to consolidate public finances. Full mouth before the election. The deed has escaped. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] On 4 January at a press conference 2023, at a press conference on the ticket delivery for 2022, the Czech Television editor, Minister of Finance Stanjura, was questioned about where he would take money for extraordinary pension valorization if he did not have it in his budget. Minister Stanjura said that he is not yet known above. So he didn't know it was at least the 20? Now I'm explaining to you that he should have known and had to. It's a mandatorial expense, that's legal. And he replied that the above one was not known. And that it's 1 percent of the total expenditure of the state budget, that's true, that's true, and that the budget will handle it. Well done! On Sunday, last Sunday, I was with the Minister of Finance on the Czech Television discussion programme Questions by Václav Moravec, where the Minister of Finance assured us that, should extraordinary valorisation take place, that means that this amendment would not have been approved by about 22 March, so it was not published in the Collection of Laws until 22 March, so that the extraordinary valorization would of course take place in the way that effective law has imposed so far. And that he's just the means, now we're quantifying them precisely, because they're in the materials from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, in the amount of 34.4 billion that he's just gonna find them there. Well, what's the problem? Where's the damage when he finds them? What damage would there be if the money was found there? As former Minister, I will now not argue about where they will be found and how, that is the responsibility of this government and, above all, the finance minister who is in charge of this Turkish economy. But I take his words for a coin. They will, so they'll find each other. That way, there can be no damage. Where would it come from? At the expense of who, at the expense of what? Okay. It is a rather strange, very unusual and very distinctive approach, and I am polite, very polite, to create a state budget as the most important economic law of the year, but good. I am, therefore, very concerned about this approach personally as the former Finance Minister. And I fear that the financial markets and credit rating agencies are equally concerned. But I do understand that you can't change your ego at the rate of your hundred and eight. I'd bet on that. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we'll pay for it. And I could talk about the other holes you have there, SFDI, but we're not in the state budget debate, we're definitely going to be x-times in the debates of these economics. I'll stick to the subject. However, if you wanted to change the chart, you had the option. And I'm not saying it's perfect. I'm not saying that. It's a very old, very old set-up. A lot of things would have to be discussed there. I agree. We have parametrically changed it in favour of pensioners, in our government parametrically some changes, but it would be necessary to assess whether some things are in line with current economic trends, to assess the different parameters there. I'm sure that's for debate. But to debate the standard legislative way, when we will discuss these matters, when our expert teams will assess them, when we will have a completely substantive debate in committees, in budgetary terms, in social terms. It's a very sensitive subject! Very sensitive. This cannot be changed on your knees, on the march, when you and the arguments are actually changing as you march, when you approve it here in this non-standard way, when you rape us within and within this institute, such as the state of legislative emergency, when you take away the fundamental rights that the opposition has, to speak and to express when we could not actually assess these things properly. And you're still changing the reasons why you're doing this. A train that can't be stopped. It's nonsense. So as you're changing this valorization pattern now, you can change it from January 1st. It's nonsense. Absolute nonsense. And if you were forced to let it go through the proper legislative path, which you should have done, and I would have understood that you were coming up with something, maybe at the end of that story we wouldn't have supported it, but we would certainly have been debating with you in a completely factual and correct manner as we discussed with you last year. So we had to force you to do this a little by delaying the discussion that you wanted to take away 14 billion from public health insurance, but by doing so we indirectly forced you, and I am grateful for that, to debate the current effective valorisation mechanism for payments for state insured persons. We could've moved on anyway, and there was no reason not to. You've known since November, at least since November, that the valorization will be big. At least since November. You knew that train, as Minister Jurečka says, the train was coming. Why didn't you come? Why didn't you come? Why didn't you come here to discuss it? And we'd be debating. And if you don't, you could say that the opposition isn't talking to us, we were trying. We wouldn't give you a chance to debate. And somewhere we could just reach a compromise that we might even support. I don't know. This is about the debate. And even if we didn't support it, we wouldn't have slowed it down. We would say our own, apply our amendments, and go through a proper legislative process. There weren't any more things playing into your hands. I don't think they were playing into your hands with the presidential election, that's certainly the political aspect. And what's convenient for you is that you approve it so quickly and you don't have to put your skin on the market to slaughter us here in a matter of days. [[9.40 hours]] You would never have defeated us if you hadn't broken the Rules of Procedure. We're ready to be here for another day and night, because time is playing against you. You need to have that bill by March 22nd in the Collection of Laws, not us, we don't want it. That means you have no choice but to slaughter us. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] Rather than violating our fundamental and fundamental rights that we have as opposition. That's what you wanted, and you needed to run it this fast. And quickly just cut the debate, shut it down, so we don't have to listen to it! Don't let the public hear it! Don't let him hear you work, what you're doing here, what you're doing! And the debate you're having here, as you say, it keeps repeating, it keeps... But you are not able to explain: you are unable. Someone will always speak from you - and I thank Mr Haas through the Vice-President for at least speaking - but with all due respect to you and your knowledge, I know you from the constitutionally-legal committee, through the Vice-President, so you will read one sentence or two sentences from the Constitutional Court's finding. I'll read you four more that say otherwise, and the Constitutional Court will decide anyway. But it would never have gotten to the Constitutional Court if you hadn't cut us short on our rights. But again, you won't shut us up, and until we can talk here before you stop us from using all the undemocratic methods that you're applying against the law, we'll talk until then. We could have done three standard readings here, I didn't have to have a sleeping bag here that became a symbol of this obstruction, and I proudly claim it. But you guys decided how you decided to enter the valorization scheme at the last minute, and that's only because you were scared. Fear of how the presidential election would end. Fear of how you would defend it. Fear that you wouldn't defend it, fear that you wouldn't be able to explain why you're doing it and what makes you do it. So this was perhaps the most expensive presidential campaign in our country's modern history. But you chose to bend the legislative process and to adjust this valuation scheme only when the claim itself had already arisen. And don't tell me you don't. Don't tell me it wasn't until February 10th. He's gonna judge it all at the end of the Constitutional Court story, but he did. There's a deadline for his paycheck. You knew it was gonna be like that. And I admit frankly that Minister Jurečka called me, called me on that Friday, now I don't know exactly the date, he wrote to me on Thursday, yes, I read it exactly, we couldn't meet for time reasons, we talked on Friday, it was arranged at about half one. We talked on the phone, but it was after Wednesday at the press conference after the government's meeting that intention was announced that the government had discussed it. Then we all know that Monday after the Friday we called, per rollam approved it. Per rollam, that's weird too. But we were on the phone, and the Minister informed me that he had sent the bill to all the Members, and he asked me how I would stand to shorten the deadlines. I told him honestly that I would veto it, that I would veto it, shorten the deadlines. That just such a law simply cannot be discussed within a short period of time. Then it was presented in the words: our conversation was correct. I'm not complaining, I'm just saying what it was about, I believe you'll confirm it, and then it was presented: we have nothing else left, we have five coalitions, because the opposition wants to veto the shortening of deadlines, which is why we have to go the way of a legislative emergency. Oh, no. I'm looking at five-caliber lawyers, looking into the ground, and I don't blame them. Oh, no. This is an argument? This is an argument? If they don't cut our deadlines, do we have to go through a legislative emergency? After all, the conditions for the application of the Institute of Legislative Emergency, a state of legislative emergency, are laid down by law. We can't add anything, add that there may be a condition that time limits will be vetoed. No, we really can't. If so, advise your colleagues in the government, because this argument is really stupid. Stupid and contrary to the law. So any amendment -- and I gave a helping hand, our club gave a helping hand, I repeatedly said, withdraw this bill, pay the claim, and come treat us the way you did last year for valorizing payments for state insured people, come talk to us about the valorisation scheme for pensioners. In addition, I would like to stress that this valuation scheme, which is now valid, will not fully saturate the increased costs of Czech pensioners. That's also important to say. It will not have fully increased costs for Czech pensioners. Because let's not forget that the price increases did not take place until January, but the pension increases are due to be made in June. This means that the entire period between January and June must bear the increased cost of living borne by pensioners at this point in time from an ever-increasing pension. Moreover, food, energy, fuel, clothing, and footwear prices are still rising every month. I understand that this is hard to imagine for five-caliber members of the government who have advocated an increase in their salaries. But I challenge you, try to empathize with the difficult situation of Czech pensioners, talk to them. A little empathy wouldn't really hurt you. And we have initiated and an extraordinary meeting will be convened on the really burning problems of the people of this country and one of the first will be on the topic of freezing the salaries of politicians. This law lies - it is the parliamentary proposal of Andrej Babiš - it has been here in the House since last year and we want to return to it again because people see it as a symbol. I know politicians' salaries, if they freeze, it won't be a billion a year, but that's not the point. It's about the symbol, how people perceive it, how they feel it, how they read it, how much politicians' salaries have gone up and how they're failing, and even now we have to touch what they're entitled to and what they're supposed to protect. And I repeat nova, it doesn't protect them in a hundred percent. Of course, as former Finance Minister, I perceive the current state budget situation. The state budget deficit of 119,5 billion at the end of February is the worst result in the history of the Czech Republic. The Minister of Finance Stanjura thus aims to overcome his own record from last year, when he owed the Czech Republic by 429 billion in a single year. That didn't even work out for covid, for the hardest covid ever. $429 billion! [[9.50 hours]] However, his guilt or his inactivity continues with the problems of drawing European money. Last year, 54 billion funds were not spent. Why? The money is prefinanced from the Czech budget and you just have to ask for it, but the Minister of Finance has to take care of it. I wrote letters to the reviewers at least once a month: send for certification. This is because the Ministry of Finance is the certification body that asks for this money in Europe, but the Minister must take care of it. They just have to, I'll tell the people, chase the other ministers, push them. Prime Minister Babiš pushed me again. And so on and so forth. It's about the fact that you care and that you just run the resort. I don't see that today. The pro-cyclical policy of this government, the failure to address the revenue side of the budget, the ill-set windfall tax, is also very expensive. Already today, most economists are commenting that the windfall tax set by Minister Stanjura on the banking sector will not have an entirely adequate and expected fiscal impact. Moreover, five coalitions, when they wanted to tax additionally, should have intervened much earlier, many months earlier, in order to tax record profits in 2022, failed completely, or to stop energy prices for producers. Again, the five coalitions are not able to fully exploit the potential of ČEZ and other state companies. Well, of course, you didn't introduce any significant savings on the functioning of the state. The five-wheelers' proposal to reduce gambling taxation, so it is just an imaginary icing within this inflationary chaos. On Sunday in Questions by Václav Moravec, the Minister of Finance told his colleagues that he had asked the moderator whether he was going to lower his gambling tax, he replied that he had given his colleagues... Because I suspect Hospodářské noviny has come up with some sort of adjustment. You see, we're worried about gambling, and for the Treasury, that's just what's critical to this country right now! It was Andrej Babiš and I who passed the gambling law, the revolutionary law, and the gambling tax. We stopped being a casino in the heart of Europe. The numbers we presented were how many different ATMs, gambling rooms, and so on, and instead there are good things in those places. Customs started working. We were just fighting gambling. However, what I must admit, Andrej Babiš has not succeeded as Minister of Finance, nor have I managed to enforce the rates that we had set and recommended after discussing with experts, because the gambling lobby across the Chamber of Deputies is incredible. So Finance Minister Stanjura answered the moderator's question whether he was going to cut gambling taxes: I gave the task of setting up gambling taxes so that it would be fiscally positive. I'm translating it in words - and I'm going to wait for the result and I'm going to talk about it very loudly. In other words, it was just an entity that won in the last parliamentary term, and in this term, it might be another entity that won. In any case, I find it unacceptable that gambling taxes should be reduced. I know it's about 10 billion, maybe 12. Whatever, let's raise them. The role plays not only the degree of harmfulness but also the level of profitability. Let us look at other European countries. All that talk, it'll reach the point where it spills into the gray zone. It won't reach, don't worry. There are such - fortunately, we have managed to implement it - such control mechanisms that it will not succeed. Let's stop promoting lobbyist interests here. You stop, we don't. Stop promoting the lobbyist interests of some groups and take care of people, in this case retired people. Next thing. With inflation, you have record revenue, and you don't talk about it. So a deficit of 119,5 billion for February. But look at the revenue, the revenue side. When we were at the time of the covid, in 2020, we had the biggest economic downturn in our country's history, the modern history, minus 5.5 percent. We had a fall on the revenue side. We've never done it the way you did. You have record revenue, and yet such results. Where's your public finance consolidation plan? Why did you not apply Mr Skopeček and Mr Stanjura's amendment to the budget for 2021, which reduced expenditure by 80 billion? I asked Václav Moravec: why? He had it ready. Well, because he was pointless. You took it out of the mandatorial expenses. You know that well today. But admit it. You just lied. You lied then, and now it's obvious you don't know what to do with it. Thanks to inflation - I repeat again - you have record revenue. You don't talk about it, quietly, it's like yourself, it's cool. We have 25 percent inflation in food. People who drown electricity pay more than twice as much each month from year to year. A year ago 5,000 crowns a month - I thought I said it here yesterday, today I will repeat it - today 12,000 crowns a month. A very specific case of a senior from Ostrava who wrote to me. I've got plenty of them. I introduced this one because it seemed to me that it kind of personified everyone else. That means one thing. From that, you shamelessly collect taxes and even want to increase them. In 2022, you collected extra 137 billion in taxes and insurance in the state budget from people and companies. Public budget revenues will also increase significantly in the coming years. I refer again to the fiscal outlook of the Ministry of Finance of November 2022, page 10, to save you the search. In 2023 public finance revenues will grow by 280 billion, compared with another 93 billion in 2024. Compared to this increased base by 89 billion in 2025. Do you understand that? That's all we're saying. And you're talking about this extreme income about the difference of roughly 19 billion for pensioners. Unbelievable! Scandalous! Completely adequate antisocial policy of the ODS, which has been ordained for us in recent years. Today it is quite clear that you have lost 15 billion of your cancelled EET at current prices every year. And you only had these funds as a result of effective tax collection at the same time as the settlement of the business environment. I'm looking forward to your upgraded government programming statement that you were discussing yesterday, if you crossed out the battle with the grey economy there, because apparently it did for me. You really crossed him out. The philosophy of our government was to collect proper taxes, honestly, not that only anyone pays them, and then reduce them to people and companies. That's what we've been doing all along. You're obviously going the other way. There was simply a political ego here, especially the Minister of Finance Stanjura and Prime Minister Fiala, because Prime Minister Fiala, during the last parliamentary term, cried out as opposition leader: EET will never pass! We'll never let it go! Never, we're gonna be able to reconstruct what forces are gonna do. Never! [[10.00 hours]] So we're saying now that we don't want to let go of the damage to our seniors, to collect 7,000 on average this year. So you have no choice but to break our resolve by force, to ban us from speaking, to trample on our rights as a parliamentary opposition, notabene, the largest club in this Chamber of Deputies. Too bad about the 15 billion EETs. I think we could use the elderly, we'd already have the difference that we have left. Well, the $4 billion, I'd help Mr. Secretary find it easily by now, that's actually possible. Too bad. Now our seniors will pay for it. And they're the first group to pay for it. There are others waiting in line. This will start to bag our five-calices gradually when it succeeds in pushing through the force. Besides, you're not saving any money. Your speech? Prime Minister Fiala often said: we will save it on the operation of the state, we will not take it away from people and companies. Remember those rumors, those blue posters that flooded social media? It's a good thing we have them, because now we can remind beautifully people of your promises, how you don't raise taxes on real estate because you don't punish people for getting your own place. And so I could go on. Don't worry, we'll remind you. They spontaneously remind you of it themselves. In November, Prime Minister Fiala: we will not change the valorisation scheme for pensioners. Can you believe that? A government that talks like that and acts like that? Well, you can't. That is why trust in this government is failing. That's why there are so few people in society today who are still giving it to you. So back - you're not saving any money. The Ministry of Finance has increased the number of officials - I draw from officially approved systemization - in the year of your government from 1,438 to 1,450. You're creating new sections, you've got six political advisors -- I mean, financials, I'm focusing there, you know -- two political deputys. You set up new ministries for nothing. The work of the Minister for European Affairs and his office is to be done by the Prime Minister. Why do you have him there, Minister? I haven't seen anything. I don't remember him ever being here, telling us anything. Moreover, the Presidency has ended. Well, I think you can save one of your devices right now. The work of the Minister for Legislation and its Office belongs to SMEs, the Ministry of Justice, as we had it for us. Yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, yesterday, it was especially resonating - why isn't the Minister of Legislation here again? Minister Bartoš, as a valiant defense attorney, defended him here and read to us when he was here, when he wasn't, when he got a question, he didn't get a question. You were wrong. We're not here for you. You're here for us. You answer to the Chamber of Deputies. I would never dare to speak so humbly to the Members of this honourable Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of Legislation, who we don't really know what he's doing, who usually sits here with laws he doesn't speak to because he's probably on duty, and when he's finally here to shine and help the government defend - I understand the indefensible, but at least try to, because he certainly raised his hand for it as a member of the government, it's not what he is. So please don't come here with any fairy tales, if he's sitting on a committee or if he was here and now he's gone to bed and so on. He's supposed to be here! And if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs said yesterday that he was presenting it instead of the government, then he must also be able to answer questions purely legal, purely legislative. And I didn't hear that much last night. Although I want to say that I'm also a little positive that the Minister of Labour has been here most of the time trying to answer, although those answers certainly didn't satisfy me. Why do we have a secretary for science? For us, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš was in charge and we had results, expenses increased, a plan was set up for the future of the Czech Republic. We did. We don't know anything now. Now we're hearing so quietly that perhaps the expenditure for this area is running short, we can see it in the budget. But would the Secretary of State ever say anything fundamental here? Correct me if I'm wrong. Nothing. It's a useless machine again. Well, there's just too many caterpillars for not enough kale five-caliber. The number of officials is also growing at the Office of the Government and other ministries. Why has the Presidency definitely not used itself to read - I have read some conclusions, so now I wonder how it will turn the finance minister into national legislation - so that we can finally achieve the taxation of global companies, of all the different digital companies that have been doing business here for ten years, of eleven years, and that taxes don't pay a penny? How do Czech companies that do business in the same area come to this? So come on, don't make excuses that it won't be a lot of money. Come up with a proposal, we'll support it, I promise it here for the YES movement. Submit the analysis, do the math. Every few billion good. Don't tell me - it won't pay. This is where it pays you to take the elderly 19 billion. So don't tell me it won't pay to prepare something that would be a few billion. You'll be looking for every billion. And you have to look for her, it's your duty. You're not investing. You do not support the economy in growth. That is why we are one of the few in the EU in recession. Look at the numbers. I understand you don't have a lot of people in there who are orienting. But lean on the expert teams. Only in finance are the perfect expert teams. I don't understand why the minister doesn't use them. His statement doesn't show that he's using them. I didn't have a single consultant at the Treasury Department. Zero. I was just leaning on the Treasury's apparatus. The Minister has a number of advisors, so I believe he may be doing better. But there's no way to see it on the results. It is logical, because businessmen who face the fastest decline in sales in the history of the statistical office want to increase their contributions by up to 60 percent. I know, you're saying we haven't agreed yet. But the fact that she came up with it, I guess, the Czech TV, she probably wouldn't have broadcast it if it hadn't been generated. So at least somewhere at the level of a five-wheeler, you discussed it in a rather fundamental way. I understand that it is difficult to communicate with Mr. Prime Minister Fial and Finance Minister Stanjur and other ODS colleagues because they have always fought here for the rights of tradesmen. I understand that. The Prime Minister says, well, we haven't decided yet, he said recently in a media appearance. We haven't decided yet, we're gonna talk about it, but if we did, we're gonna do it to improve the businessmen's pensions. Well. Which one do you think will make it better? Not a whole row at all. And why did you complicate the flat-rate tax we created? There we improved our pensions, where we raised the minimum social by 15 percent positive in the package, which is paid by a flat-rate player a month, and we gave the tax a symbolic hundred. And whoever logged in today doesn't file confessions, reports, he doesn't get a check, sends a payment to the Financial Administration, she sends it to Child Services, and they have a room. [[10.10 hours]] You've made it so complicated, you, right-hand side, especially the ODS. Simplify. So you complicated an amazing flat-rate tax institute that 35,000 businessmen signed up for it after the amendment. Cool! Congratulations. You're really leading from ten to five. We pushed through the simplest institute for businessmen. I pushed through as Secretary of Finance, and I achieved that we were granted an exception to move the mandatory VAT payer to 2 million. Thank you for making it through the Treasury. We raised our hand logically. We've compensated the tradesmen. And so I could go on. We who have been marked by you as the enemies of the tradesmen. And what are you up to now? We'll wait for you to come up with this when you say nothing's agreed. You didn't say no. He didn't say Prime Minister of your government - no, we won't. Although I probably wouldn't have put it that way today either, because with the pension valorization, he also said -- we're not going to change the chart in November 22, and now he's saying -- no, I meant it differently, I meant it... I don't know how anymore. You guys are always saying different things. So if you're not dealing with the income side and you're doing procyclical politics, you can't be surprised if you're going to miss the money in the future. Why haven't we already approved here since 1 January 2023 a law on increasing taxes on addiction? The YES movement would raise its hand for it. Tobacco products including heated tobacco. Tough booze. Gambling. You say, that's just not enough money. Why? The trajectory will set up, we did it, you yelled at us back then, I remember: you made a commitment in the government's programming statement that you wouldn't raise taxes, and you're increasing on the alcohol and the tobacco products. But we also made a commitment to fight addiction. And this is one of the ways. Bring it up. Hurry up. It's recommended by NERV. We'll raise our hand for it. I don't know what you're waiting for. You could have it quick here. And don't forget that tax changes need to be effective on 1 January 2024 in this case and the legislative process here takes an average of ten, eleven months, so you're already quite busy. You are fully responsible for the current situation, which will end in delusion for the Czech Republic. You just wanted to have a nicer deficit number, backpack and marketing deficits. But you sold the elderly. And you should be ashamed of yourself and admit the mistake. I wanted to challenge you, and this is how I told the President-elect to withdraw the proposal, prepare an honest amendment to the State Budget Act and discuss with us a new valuation scheme from 1 January 2024. And now I hear you wouldn't even need a budget amendment. That you'd find it. All the better. I'm not calling for a deeper deficit. If you find it, the better. But then you are not in any danger of economic damage. And please don't do that again. It's not. The Treasury Secretary of your government has admitted that he will find the money even if this proposal fails in the budget. What you should be dealing with immediately is inflation. Again, we have the third highest inflation in all the countries of the European Union. According to Eurostat numbers 19.1. It's a disaster! So we have been premieres at inflation levels throughout the year as part of Eurostat measurements. Approach measures immediately, repeatedly calling on you, which will significantly affect price growth. We have presented at this site, at press conferences after the government's meeting, a number of proposals that you can apply. This price growth is already throwing our middle class into poverty, when they are forced to ask for social benefits, which will be reflected in the state budget in the finals because your spending is growing. The expenses will increase. It also showed that last night's fulfillment. Moreover, this causes additional administrative costs. Every day, someone calls me, writes me, stops me, this morning, ma'am, when I went to work, when I turned around asking for benefits, what is the error rate, how long does it take, please tell the minister, and so on. It's still being dealt with. I still have x different stories. But welfare can't be the solution for most of the population. That famous quote from the Prime Minister that he put on his Facebook page, I think it was on the ODS website last year - we increased the number of people on social benefits. Right-wing government. She says she's right-wing. So that's her goal - to increase the number of people on welfare. No! You're supposed to start the economy! You're supposed to start the investment! You're supposed to help companies that give jobs to people! That's your job to take care of employment. Thank God you're left with the lowest unemployment in the European Union because of our measures to keep it. That's your job. Not increase the number of people on welfare. Moreover, the Czech Republic has the biggest decline in real wages from OECD countries, which is once again the result of your completely nonsensical policy. At this point, I can remind you how you increased minimum and guaranteed wages. The chaos at the last minute. Then you raised only the first and eighth degree, incomprehensiblely, so you sent me a message to the cleaners, cookbooks and others, I forgot about a lot of professions, seamstresses, gingerbread decorations - I talked to one company and so on, so you said to them: you are unlucky. There's no logic in it, she's a smart hobby, she's not wearing her shoes, she's barefoot. So have the courage, Minister Jurečka, and solve those eight degrees of guaranteed wages. I know, it upset me too, I also didn't understand why only the Czech and Slovak Republics have it, they have four degrees I suspect, Slovák, we have eight. I didn't get it. I was thinking as Secretary of Finance, it could use some debate. So you solved it by giving first and eighth grade. I don't know, what do farmers say about that? [[Minister Jurečka - comment from the first bench in front of the speaker counter.]] Well, great. So that's the kind of attitude I really don't understand. I can't figure it out, so I'm gonna get out of it. Or the way you treat state employees, that would be for a separate chapter. For the next one. Start working immediately on a countercyclical fiscal policy that will get our country out of the recession that the five-calice's incompetence has put her into. I call on five coalitions repeatedly: Download this bill. Pay Czech pensioners what they are legally entitled to according to current effective legislation. In case you want to interfere with the valuation of pensions, you want to change the valuation scheme, allow the standard legislative process to allow any change in the valuation to apply to future valuation and not to operate backwards. I also call on you, instead of these one-off and stupid interventions, start working on real pension reform, not parametric changes. I say repeatedly, invite us to this meeting. Don't keep saying, when we agree, we'll introduce you to it. [[10.20 hours]] That won't only be here for the duration of your mandate if it lasts two and a half years. It will be here for years, and you will certainly not rule after the end of this term. This government will certainly not rule. You've been at the Straka Academy for over a year, a year and a quarter, a year and a half soon, so stop making excuses for the Babišův government. Start making excuses... Yesterday I read - the Prime Minister on CNN - that they inherited the debt of Babišův's government. And we had previously inherited the debt of Nečasův' government, which was much larger than what we handed over to you at the end of 2021. And what did you do? You have raised it so that we have a beautiful first place in 2022 within the European Union as a percentage of GDP. I challenge you, start ruling this country at last, take care of people, businesses, because that is your political responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u13	Thank you. One factual point - Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask -- good morning, I forgot, ladies and gentlemen -- morning. I'd like to ask the Minister, or someone else, because we're still talking about this state of legislative emergency as a necessary assumption for something here, but, as I've just heard from Alena Schillerová, there was some kind of contact between the Minister and her as the president of our club about shortening the time limits. And I wonder, if we weren't being fair, or she didn't act fair, and she said that we wouldn't be vetoing those deadlines, so you would normally come up with it within a short period of time, and then we'd vouch for it, what would be your next step? Because this kind of changes the point of view of the state of legislative emergency. That's the first specific point. Two, and I can't forgive myself here. We're here on the third day, and on the third day, the Minister of Legislation is missing. It's the third day! I'm evening that this is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. We also agreed to perform with priority rights in the morning. But that this isn't the third day of the Minister of Legislation, whose gesture this is all part of, because we're not at the point of pension insurance, is an incredible scandal for me! He is excused, as I have heard from the President, between seven and nineteen for business reasons. Does that mean another legislative bomb is being prepared? Or what's that supposed to mean? So I would like to call again for the Minister of Legislation to be here, because we keep asking questions and not hearing the answers except one sentence that Jakub Michálek said here at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u15	Thank you. Just for the record, I remind you that we are before discussing a government bill amending Law No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, it is the House's printing 392, where we would have according to § 99 para. 5 assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the said proposal are in the accelerated procedure. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u16	Thank you very much. I have to get out. I want to respond to President Schillerová, or to her heartbreaking challenges, so that this coalition finally accedes to a real pension reform. We hear it from the Prime Minister who sat at the Ministry of Finance for years, we hear it from the president of the party club, who was in government for ten years, had a prime minister for five years, for ten years the Minister of Finance. What have we seen in the area of pension reform from this lady and from the YES movement? We noted the abolition of pension reform, the creation of a commission, and that was it! You haven't done anything in ten years! You couldn't even "no" on this subject! And you, seriously, are calling here after a year of this government, where is the pension reform? You really can't even see your mouth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u17	Thank you. There are a number of factual points. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Patrik Nacher, Alena Schillerová and others will now perform here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u18	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my colleague Patrik Nacher's absence, the constant absence of the Minister for Legislation. Mr President and Vice-President of the House have made it clear here that at this point we are dealing with an assessment of the terms and conditions for negotiations in the shortened negotiations. At this point, I would like to call on the Vice Prime Minister and the Minister for Regional Development, because the minister falls practically within their political spectrum, he is behind the Czech Pirate Party, if he could come and tell us why he will not be present today at the Chamber of Deputies for work reasons. I didn't call this meeting. I didn't want an emergency retirement meeting. I wanted the seniors to get what they were legally entitled to. You called the meeting. You asked for it. You approved per rollam remotely by clicking from your e-mail that you would take the valorization of the elderly without acting on it. You have approved that this will be in a state of legislative emergency, so please come and tell us at this moment why the Minister for Legislation is not present at this meeting! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u19	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Patrik Nacher, then by Mrs Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u20	I would like to respond to my honored colleague Honza Skopeček. He's extended his term here. The election period, my colleague, through the Vice-President, is four years old, so the Prime Minister could have been Andrej Babiš for a maximum of four years, and the government was YES for eight years, not ten. You may have mistaken some other election period for someone else. I would remind you that during that first term, KDU-ČSL was in the government as well. That's your coalition partner. So just in that case, don't say eight years, but four years, because then your complaint should also be directed at KDU-ČSL to make it fair. It's similar to the super gross pay cut. You're all gonna say yes canceled the super gross wage, we're getting blamed by our colleagues at TOP 09, STAN, Pirates. But you voted for it too. I'm proud of it, I'd vote for it again, but you're always throwing this around. Then tell the truth as it is. Four years, eight years. That's how the term is. That's reaction one. And then I actually forgot the other one before about the limitation of speaking time. I don't think you're the tactical kind of guys on this one, because what I've been watching so far, with the ordinary MPs, except for the exceptions, it didn't exceed 10 minutes of their performance. If there's been a performance over 10 minutes, they're Members with priority rights. But they're not limited by this two times five. In other words, I think you're doing bear service on this. That's how much I feel. So far, from the ranks, the vast majority had it under those 10 minutes. So the limit, I really don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u21	Thank you. Now, Mrs Schillerová, Mr Hubert Lang will be ready. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u22	Yes, of course. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond to Vice-President Skopeček through you. I'm not going to repeat what Patrik Nacher, my honored colleague, said, of course, that's true. Yes, you are right, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President, our government has not prepared pension reform. When I found out that the Commission for Fair Pensions, led by Professor Nerudová, was not going anywhere, that it was simply useless, just creating more spending without dealing with revenue, then I pushed through to turn to the OECD to ask for an independent analysis. They've been operating around the Republic for a year and a half, through various institutions, departments, they've done the analysis. They've done the analysis. It's definitely available at the MPSV and at the Ministry of Finance. It was to the sustainability of public finances and, in fact, to the parameters of pension reform. [[10.30 hours]] But I did not accuse you after a year, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President. I know no government has prepared it in 30 years. And what the ex-minister Kalousek prepared back then, I think it was under Nečasův' government, which we forbid because it was really just an attempt to reform. But let's just let it go. I'm calling for you to invite us to work groups. That's what I'm calling for. Because where my memory goes, it didn't happen, and even in our government, it didn't happen that the opposition wasn't invited. So it's the other way around. I say start working on it with us. That's what I'm calling for. And again, there's an independent OECD study that she ordered and paid for by our government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u23	Thank you. As another Mr Hubert Lang, Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I would like to say here, I would like to stand up for our President, Mrs Schillerová, and I would like to say that Mr Skopeček really is a demagogist. Mr. Skopeček is just going to perform, instead of making some sort of argument, so he immediately insults, immediately attacks the previous government, throws everything down on us. I think that whoever took what our president of the club was saying here, it had a ratio, it had a head and a heel, it was just a clear summary of some things that we've been talking about for three days. So that's one. Second, to Minister Šalomoun, whom my honored colleague Babka constantly invites to attend, or Mr Nacher too, so that he does not be offended, so he simply does well in his life, he sleeps regularly, he always sleeps until eight, he sleeps until nine, then breakfasts in the morning, there fulfills some other political tasks or whatever, I don't know. He's just fine. We're devastated here, aren't we, we're not sleeping here, we're just stressing ourselves, we're fighting for the legitimate interests of our pensioners, and the government minister is just sleeping, he's got personal reasons. I don't doubt he's properly excused, but he's really unserious. And I'd end it, you know, there's a comedy called It's better to be young and rich than old and sick. It's a sad statement of the state that's here. We're here trying to fight for people who can't really help themselves, reach some conclusion of their lives, and they should have the right to enjoy their dignified old age. And if there's any legal expectation, there's just some law, the fact that you run it, the way you run it, and you're just not able to take care of these people, that's a sad statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u26	Thank you very much. I, too, will be with Mr. Vice-President Skopečka through you. I have the government's programming statement, Babišův's government. So here we have, for example, the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which will increase the basic pension ratio to 10 percent of the average wage, will contribute to increasing the standard of living of people with low pensions. - We've done that. Then here we have: We will maintain rules for valorisation linked to wage growth and consumer price index. - We did, we did. That's what you, your government, are changing at the moment. - The amendment to the Pension Insurance Act will regulate the increase in pensions by CZK 1,000 to people who reach the age of 85. That's what Babišův's government did. In every way, we will promote the return of respect and respect for old age. - You're the one who's crashing into the way you divide society in the context of the social reconciliation of solidarity. And I'm sure Vice-President Skopeček remembers the great reforms that ODS attempted, which, of course, led to confusion. I'm sure you remember the second pillar, Mr. Vice-President. We, as we can see, are fulfilling our government's programming statement from the last parliamentary term. We don't change it as we go along as it suits us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, Minister Ivan Bartoš will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. So first to Patrik Nacher, through Mr President. The election period is really only four years, so if I said it lasted five years, I misjudged it. You had not for ten years, but you had eight years to prepare a pension reform for the YES movement, which had a prime minister or finance minister. I think that eight years is a long enough time to know whether Mrs Nerudová's commission is capable or unable to prepare a relevant proposal. I think that after two, three, four years, a rather bright person can understand whether or not the commission is leading somewhere. I guess my mistake for five years has to do with the fact that your reign was so terrifying that it seemed longer than it really was. As far as my colleague Juchelka is concerned, I thought that by not being able to enter the government, we lost Minister Maláčová, who also thought that it was possible to give away, raise pensions, increase spending, raise the chapter of social spending, and thought that the money simply was not needed, that the money was transferred, do not grab me at the word, grow on a tree. We don't have Mrs. Maláčová here, but Mrs. Maláčová has inherited herself from Mr. Juchelka here. Because he has told us all the measures that deepen the deficits of the pension system, the previous government has taken. But, colleague, that's just it. You only managed to deepen the deficits without telling how the pension system could survive the next generation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u29	Thank you. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš, a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Strýček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond collectively and perhaps even to Mr Lang, through you. Minister Šalomoun is chairing the Legislative Council of the Government today, so when someone asks again, please tell your colleagues that he is chairing the Legislative Council of the Government. He spoke about the bill's proposal process, not the substance of the law itself, which is why Minister Jurečka is here five times. I cannot imagine that when the question is repeated per Member, and for some speeches, the same question even repeats three times that he will always be here, applying with fact, waiting for the ten other factual ones and telling you that it is so and so. Five times in this matter, he was present. I would also like to ask the MP, I think that this is like a joke or a paternalist or something we understand, somebody has to get some sleep... Like we're not in school. How are you acting? There is no Šalomoun here at all to whom you would condescendingly speak about his life. I look at the parliamentary lines, it's the same thing. Some Members are in offices, some are sleeping in a sleeping bag, some are normally in that break between one and seven o'clock, if he is lucky and is nearby or Prague, he went home to sleep. Oh, please, treat people with some respect. I don't put these people down here, either, even though I think some of the notes are childish. We're all grown-up people here, at least 18 years old, and we're just getting this kind of communication where I'm knocking, knocking, knocking on my co-workers... Mr Šalomoun is not a member of the Pirate Party, although it is not relevant, but he is a minister who is an expert in his field, and it is not his duty - which I would appreciate for some Members if they sat here at least on their points and the like that they wish to contradict. So he's here, he answered the questions, and he's chairing the Government Legislative Council today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u31	Have a good morning. We switched to meeting management. We will continue with the factual remarks. After Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bartoš, Mr. Strýček will make a point of fact. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very short. I just wanted to respond to your show. I remember your campaign performance in the papers, in the debates, and so on, when you talked about finding 80 and 100 billion here without any painful cuts. Well, reality doesn't quite suggest it yet. So I was going to ask if the 19 billion of those painless cuts for our pensioners were included in the Excellent Table that you presented with those 80 billion cuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u33	Mr colleague, I'm sure you know that as President I can't respond to you, I don't have any of my colleagues here to sign up, so don't take it as indecency from me. Believe me, I have arguments and I want to answer you, but I just don't have that option right now. So let's continue with the factual notes. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka's performance follows. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u34	Thank you. I quite like the facts, but when I listened to my previous speakers here, especially from the ANO movement club, I remember, and some of you who have been here for the third term, I think that with me too, as Andrej Babiš, then Minister of Finance, was the first or second quarter of 2014, and in this place with a very strong articulation he said that he had already completed his pension reform and that he would introduce it in the coming months. It's traceable. Andrej Babiš stood here in 2014 and said: I have already completed the pension reform, I will introduce it and we will implement it. So if he says that as chairman, maybe today he'll come to work, so he might also say, where the mistake happened, that he's already done it, but then, as finance minister, Sobotkův never put it on the table as coalition partner to the government. Then, when he was Prime Minister, he never presented it either, not on the table, but into that phase of realization, into the paragrafo version, in order to push it through. And now I dare to respond to my colleague Juchelka. He's read all these beautiful declarations in that programming statement from the government of Andrej Babiš. I think it's like a great answer to the facts, the real numbers and the reality. And when we look at the evolution of the average income level compared to the average net wage in this country, I suggest you follow this orange curve right here. [[shows the graph]] And if we look at the period from 2018 to 2021, which is the period of Andrej Babiš's reign, in the last 12 years or so, the average pension against the average net wage in this country has fallen to the lowest ever historical value. This means - only for potential viewers of this record. I'll say, in 2013, the average pension against the average net wage was 57 percent, and during the reign of Andrej Babiš it was between 51, 52, 54, 50. [[Time, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.]] We're at 62 today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u35	Thank you. Next, Mr Juchelka will speak with a factual remark and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Mr Juchelka, please pay attention and come to the counter when I call him to a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u36	I'm sorry, but Minister Jurečka wanted to have a conversation with me, so I wasn't paying attention, that's true. But I'm going to respond to him directly, of course, because your graph here is falling because of the fact that in the reign of Andrej Babiš, wages were rising. After all, we all remember how much pay went up for teachers, teachers, firefighters, and so on. So, of course, that's clear. It is important here to what extent the seniors have tried to be secure within their pensions. And on the other hand, the fear of actually losing part of the inflation that you're proposing here is behind your government. All I did here was read what was in the government's programming statement, the previous one, and everything there was, it came true. Mr. Vice-President Skopečka. Vice-President, I'm just gonna read you this one number under the responsibility. I've already talked here about, of course, the trivial things the ODS has done as their attempts at pension reform, which, of course, led to confusion, as the second pillar to which 780,000 people signed up, and somehow it didn't work out. I will only read you one number here when you are the macroeconomic: CZK 119,7 billion, that is the February budget deficit and is - beware - the deepest in the history of the Czech Republic. The current budget deficit again: CZK 119,7 billion, is the deepest deficit in the Czech Republic's budget. Whose government? Under the ODS. And who has the Treasury? Stanjura for ODS! Congratulations, Mr. Vice-President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u37	Thank you for keeping the time. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Nacher. I also have to say to Mr Juchelek that I would like to answer him, but unfortunately I cannot, but I am happy to do so outside the negotiations. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Perhaps if you can call other Vice-Presidents of the House over the microphone to sit next to you and hand them over to the meeting and therefore respond, that is such advice. But otherwise, I've discovered now, I understand how you're doing it here. So she's gonna start a debate with the MPs who are next, you're gonna cut it at some point, and you're gonna limit it to twice five. I explained that even though they don't exceed the ten minutes, most of them, it doesn't actually have the effect, it's like a psychological moment. Then there's a five-calice volunteer, now it's Honza Skopeček, who's gonna burn something against the opposition out of the debate, however you're gonna answer the opposition now, not the other way around, so obviously it's gonna magnetize the fact that we're all going to make factual remarks, so there's 0 or 1, there's now 7, and then there's another coalition member who's gonna say, you're taking advantage of factual notes, so we're gonna cut it completely for you. [[on the light board]] That's the script. And now Jan Skopeček has pulled the short match. Because if he hadn't, there wouldn't be seven factual remarks that logically responded to him. And I've been looking forward to the performance by Minister Jurečka all morning, who promised to perform tonight. And he's waiting for it. He's waiting 'cause he's got the actual notes in front of him. And as I'm saying, they wouldn't be if there weren't insulting comments on the opposition. So, colleagues, again. You're in the coalition, we're in the opposition. You could have done this in the last term, now get used to it. I understand that you would like to rule the combination and not have responsibility. It's such an ideal condition. I guess anyone would want that. But that's not how life works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u39	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I will just limit myself to saying that, in a factual remark, I responded to the words of President Schillerová, who had been heard a few minutes before, and I followed strictly what she said in her speech. Unlike many other Members, I think. The next, with a factual point, will be made by President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. By your means, I won't bother you, so I won't respond to you because I know you can't react, and I just appreciate you coming to the debate with me, and I don't want you to stop. [[Don't worry about it.]] By your means, I apologize, unlike your party colleague, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who avoids it very much. I respond to you, very generally, and to Minister Jurečka. I could also blame here how the ODS governments couldn't handle it and so on. What will this help the citizens of this country? Nothing. I'm just asking you to cooperate. Let's finally work on it, as they say in our country. That's all I wanted. If the government of Andrej Babiš, Minister Jurečka, please invite us in and let's talk about it, I don't blame you for the various governments you've been in, and you haven't enforced anything at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u41	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will speak with another point of fact, and Mr Lang will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would take the liberty of responding to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who, like here, almost every time he put himself in Mr. Andrej Babiš's mouth about pension reform done. So I'd just like to ask him who he ruled with in 2014 until 2018? If it wasn't Andrej Babiš with whom he was in government? I'm sure he was very appealing to him for the pension reform to be done. And, as far as I know, KDU-ČSL also at that time, in 2014 and 2018, gave to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs her deputy in charge of pensions. So let's say who didn't move in the context of pension reform and who was in charge. [[10.50 hours]] At the same time, I would like to say that this government, before it went to rule, still promised how it would ensure a decent life for the elderly and that it would protect the pensions. I think that on those billboards or where you've announced it in those documents, you should have written in the first place: we'll ensure a decent life for ourselves and we'll protect our salaries, because what you're doing right now is exactly what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u43	Mr Lang will now speak with a point of fact, Mrs Hanzlíková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u44	May I? . [[You have the floor, please.]] Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, I'd like to respond here to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirate Party, because he approached me here. If we're here today on the third day, we were here the day before 2:00 a.m., yesterday we were here until 1:00 a.m., and I'm in the part that always has the night shift, and as a lawyer here, I'm simply listening to the arguments of our lawyers, your lawyers, and now it's been clashing like this, so I'm really wondering if this government has created a ministerial post that was created as a new Minister for Legislation, why isn't Mr. Šalomoun here, isn't he involved? We have pointed to this several times, and since no one wants to hear it all the time, that's why we respond to it this way. And if anyone, although legally excused, which I don't question, is excused from 22 to 06, I don't know what Mr. Šalomoun is doing, I don't care, but at that time I usually sleep when I don't spend time here for an extraordinary meeting on a matter that might not have happened at all if you'd managed better. So that's what this thing is about. And, Mr. Bartoš, please leave what I think I'm saying to myself and what I'm saying to myself. For proboha's sake, do you want to cut back on the deputies? You're going to cut us short in a moment and cut us short in a moment? Or are you going to put it in my mouth, what am I supposed to say? I can say whatever I want here. For me, Mr. Šalomoun from 22 to 06, although legally excused, was asleep, and no one would deny it to me. If he just doesn't care, he doesn't want to give us the arguments here - and as you said he was performing here, he only performed in de facto, that means two minutes. And I don't imagine that the Minister of Legislation will defend such a substance of law as this complex, which will simply affect generations to x years in advance, in factual comments. In those two minutes, what can you say? You won't be able to say anything. That's why we wanted you to come and perform in a classic speech with priority rights. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u45	Next, Mrs Hanzlíková, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for your vote. I would like to respond to what Vice-President Skopeček said here about eight years in the field of social policy, in fact, nothing has been done. So I would simply simply simply point out that in 2013, I was directly at the source, because I joined the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and the situation after the Nečasův Government, so the ODS was such that they were low pensions, contributions to the disabled were absolutely ridiculous. The same applies to contributions to support the employment of disabled people. Social pay for people - low. Four years after I joined the ministry, we were adjusting all these things, lifting and lifting for the next four years. So just so we don't completely forget, because this is all traceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u47	Mrs Peštová will now speak with a point of fact, Mrs Balaštíková will prepare herself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Minister Bartoš. You said here that Minister Šalomoun has the Legislative Council of the Government. And having the Government's Legislative Council doesn't entitle him to sit here. I went to the Government Legislative Council, and there are Vice-Presidents. In particular, there is Professor Gerloch, who is an excellent capacity, then there is Dr. Kněžínek, who led it for years, led for years, so he has great experience, and Dr. Vedral, once again led when his minister was not present. So it's not true he can't sit here. He can sit here because there are some people who are going to take over the Legislative Council. And while we are at the Legislative Council of the Government, Professor Gerloch, Mr Pavlíček and others who have spoken, it was not so long ago, if it was last week, just to this adoption of this law in a legislative state of emergency, they said it was very unfortunate of you, because there was enough time to accept this amendment last year. So they themselves expressed great doubts about what you are currently doing. These capacities, which are currently sitting on the Government's Legislative Council. And I'd like to speak to Mr. Jurečka, too. Please leave Mr. Babiš alone. He was sitting here yesterday the whole time, leaving, I feel like, like, about 12:00. I don't think your five-wheelers could last as long as he could sit here. Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u49	Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Kukla will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u50	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to my previous speakers, Minister Jurečka and Vice-President Skopeček, by your means, Mr President. Please, this is where we witnessed things coming out of context, how they could be manipulated. And it is mostly with Minister Jurečka, who ripped out of context what actually happened in the former period, when really, during the reign of Andrej Babiš, wages jumped sharply, of course, against the pensions, it may have seemed that it was a fall. But the next few years, the pensions went up again. But I think you have a great advantage that the media is on your side. But you do so much kicking that even the media has to start talking against you and inviting experts who criticize your excellent deeds. And you've gotten so far, you're already being criticized by the former governor who's always been there for you. Even your horse, Danuše Nerudová, is already criticizing you, which amuses me. And finally, Brother Kalousek's words: you are doing well, gentlemen and ladies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u51	Another comment will be made by Mr Kukla, the last point of fact so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I originally did not want to react, but this debate forced me to do so. Just so it doesn't add up why we're sitting here on the third day. There are 108 Members here who want to take away almost three million people's claims to valorize pensions. These people are taking multiples less, maybe ten times less than you're sitting here. [[, who]] You say you want to help people. And let's see what we've done here this year or what you've outvoted us with. You've canceled the EET, you've introduced an unlimited number of political representatives, you've increased the number of ministers, you've put down energy that doesn't help people at all, you've added yourself by blocking our wage freeze proposal. Well, what else do you say? You're saying you're going to cancel the construction savings allowance, increase the tradesmen's fees, that you've made an umbrella against the cost of helping people. Well, the result is, we have high inflation here, you're filling the state register, and people are taking it away. I'll give you some political advice. Stop committing political suicide by not pleasing anyone and pissing everyone off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u53	Your factual point raised another factual point, Mr Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'd put that train back on track a little bit. I think we've gotten a little personal here, and that's not what it's about. This item is called Assessment of the terms and conditions for the discussion of the House of Press 392 in the shortened negotiations, and I think that the discussion should lead to why these conditions are not fulfilled or these conditions are met. And I usually like you, and I'm not gonna go down to any level of personal assault, it doesn't make any sense. And if I want to talk to someone, I'll say it to myself outside the door. So I'm going to ask everyone to calm down slightly to the points, because since I've noticed the actual notes, they've been more personal than material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u55	That was the last point of fact so far. And we'll go back to the debate. It is now registered in the order of Mr Juchelka, who I do not see here. And the Minister with priority rights. [[Call off the microphone.]] Okay, if that's the deal, I respect it. I just don't have it. Hang on. I'm sorry, I didn't have any information on priority rights, but if that's the deal, let the Vice Prime Minister speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u56	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I also follow up on yesterday's debate, which here at the House plenary, I say, has concentrated rather as a matter of fact. But it was around midnight, half one in the morning, we had a debate here about the legislative emergency and actually the way in which this material was discussed. And I've explained some of the context here. However, part of the Members who are here now was not here yesterday. That is why I said that I would like to be able to justify this more in a longer speech than in purely factual remarks, which unfortunately are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to some extent with this press. Because it is often not a reaction that concerns someone who has spoken in the debate, but it is already factual, which express itself to the state of legislative emergency, to the content of this press as such. That's what we've seen in the last two days. However, as far as the issue of legislative emergency is concerned, its necessity and why the government ultimately had to choose this procedure, let me give you a few facts. And to begin with, in the context of that justification, I must also state the content part, which concerns the way in which the government proposal actually regulates the extraordinary valorisation. I'm going back to that period sometime in 2008, 2009, when MPSV and the government did this valorization adjustment. So when I also spoke with my colleagues at the Ministry who are still working there, they worked there and then, so they say, unfortunately none of us or the politicians then submitted the modification to some modeling and asking how the system will behave when we have several months, even a year, two, very high inflation in the Czech Republic. How the system will behave then in the impact on the opening of scissors, living standards of high- and low-income pensioners, how the system will behave in terms of sustainability, for example, financing and entitlement to the state budget. These things were simply not objectively evaluated with all the impacts and risks at the time. And we've gotten into a situation in the last few months, especially last year, where the scheme especially for the extraordinary valorization, which is then purely percentage, actually really opens our scissors in the impact on the standard of living between individual groups of seniors. That's one pretty serious fact that came about. That is what I responded to during the autumn of last year, when I made it clear that the draft pension reform will also include the correction and adjustment of this valorisation mechanism, which requires us to find an ideal match across the entire political representation, whether opposition or coalition. So that it would be a change that would be permanent, long-term, and that would really reflect precisely the period when extraordinary inflation would come, when extraordinary differences would come between months. We're in a situation today where we had two extraordinary pension valorisations last year. There was also a proper valorisation to 1. 1. 2022, proper valorisation to 1. 1. 2023. And we are now in a situation where, since the last extraordinary valuation, which is really crucial, the law actually lays down a condition, if, after the months that have passed, there is a situation that inflation, the month-on-month total, exceeds 5%, then the government needs to issue a government regulation setting out the conditions for the valorisation, on the basis of which the Czech Social Security Administration then issues a specific decision on the calculation of the new amount of pensions for each particular citizen who is the beneficiary of one of the types of pensions. So the process is set today. Therefore, for this situation, for extraordinary valorisation, it is not the most important comparison of the entire average annual inflation, or year-on-year or year-on-year after month. Here for this is really a key observation of the mode and pace of the month-on-month inflation. And in this case, in which we have today played an important role, the fact of the very high leap rate of that month-on-month inflation between December and January, December 2022 and January 2023. We have made it clear that we are assuming that extraordinary valorisation will take place in 2023. For the government, I and my colleague, Minister of Finance Stanjura, mentioned this. We also gave an estimate of how it might look, the extraordinary valuation, in the amount, in the volume of the overall impact on the state budget of up to CZK 20 billion. Yes, these funds were not allocated in the draft state budget, because when the government prepared the state budget, it was unable to estimate absolutely what the inflation of the month-on-month could be. I used to say that at some point in December when the state budget had already been approved. But what was true in 2022, was logical. When those conditions happen, the state budget logically in this case, it's a mandatorial expense, so it has to cover that expenditure. And this was also true in 2022, when the extraordinary valuations were not included in the draft state budget, the funds were not allocated in full, yet we were able to satisfy these claims. So please don't put this in some context and context why we're standing here today. Because in terms of logic, what this government has done, how it behaved last year, there is no argumentation. Why we are putting this proposal here today in a state of legislative emergency, i.e. a brief discussion of this press in the Chamber of Deputies, is quite logical and it is obvious - because, as I have explained here, the result of the rise in inflation in January compared to December, which really brought us into the impact on the state budget, into what we did not expect, and that means that the original estimated amount, which was somewhere up to CZK 20 billion, has now come to us after the publication on 10 February of the Czech Statistical Office's data, so it has reached the impact this year on the value of CZK 34.4 billion this year and CZK 5.8 billion next year. And this, at a time when on 23 March we would have an effective government regulation under the current Valorisation Mechanism and the Czech Social Security Administration would subsequently make a breakdown of the increase in pensions for individual citizens, this would once and for all become the end of the lives of the people who receive these pensions, a permanent amount of their pensions, which in the future, depending on how we agree here in the coming months, would be more or less revered in regular or other valorisations. This means that what would have been given in June can no longer be undone by any other mechanism and that permanent mandatorial expenditure can be corrected or reduced. If the current wording of the law had been different and it would have said, this is only a measure that responds to extraordinary valorisation, and it applies only to that year and from 1 January. 1. the next year the government can decide differently and adjust the amount of pensions, we would not be standing here and we would not be dealing with this situation because it would not make sense. But since, indeed, after these pensions will be increased according to - or raised under the existing mechanism in June, there is simply no means of reducing this amount in future years. [[11.10 hours]] If this were reflected in the current valuation rules, over the next ten years, the amount would be less than CZK 600 billion of funding for the current pension system's current expenditures, without taking into account future valuations. The pension system is proven to be failing and going into a significant deficit. After 2035 the deficit will begin to fall to four and then to five percent of GDP, that is, in today's values it would be more than 300 billion crowns. These expenditures are not and will no longer be covered by social security revenue. That is why we are doing these steps, and these issues are due to the fact that this state has to take it either from other parts of the state budget or borrows it on, like, the case of this current situation, and it has to pay it back with interest in the future. So much to explain when we talk about the state of the legislative emergency, which is argued here about the considerable economic damage, so we're not talking about the impact only for 2023 and the state budget, but we're talking about the impact on the state budget in all those years to come, until these funds are paid. I'll read it exactly so it sounds right here. According to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The President of the Chamber of Deputies shall declare a situation of legislative emergency in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. In the present case, this is a legislative emergency because of the threat of significant economic damage, which lies in a very high financial impact in the tens of billions of crowns, which were not expected and would represent permanent mandatory expenditure and would threaten the sustainability of the entire pension system in the future. On the other hand, it is proposed to reduce the pension scheme's income of around 4.5 million (?) in proportion to any objection that, on the one hand, the pension scheme's expenditure savings are being proposed according to the proposed draft law, but on the other hand, it is proposed to reduce the pension scheme's income of around 4.5 million (?) CZK as a result of the discount on pension insurance for old-age pension workers instead of raising pensions by 0.4 per cent of the calculation base for 360 days, other gainful activities carried out with the acquisition of pensions - this was discussed on 20 February 2023 by the Vice-President of the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions Vít Samek in Český rozhlas - which is in contrast, it can be said that this is only a proposal of the MPSV. So I took the liberty of putting this into context here, where some of these things are being used in the public debate in a not entirely fair way. What I want to say here is that if we look at the absolute amounts, so when I give an example of the effects in the next ten years, according to the current wording of the law, and according to the current regulation, and the difference when we adopt the adjustment proposed by the government, and the government suggests that the valuation will take place in June, that there will be an increase in pensions of CZK 760 on average in June, the difference in national budget demands will be, I do not like to use the word'saving', but the reduction in the mandatory spending of CZK 316,4 billion - and again I say, I do not count the demands on future valorisations that will definitely be here. The question is whether the government could have changed this earlier and whether there was any reasoning and tactics in relation to the presidential elections. I have to say that again and again, because I have made it clear during the autumn and during January that we have to adjust the valorisation mechanism in the long term, because it has simply not been built for such a period and is not sustainable in the long term. The subject was clearly repeated here. As regards the question of legitimate expectations and entitlement, whether the citizens, i.e. pensioners who receive an old-age pension, are not reduced by their legitimate expectations, I would like to make it clear that the law does not speak here about the fact that, after the Czech Statistical Office has published some value, there is something. The Act states that paragraph 16 applies to determining specific parameters for raising pensions, according to which an increase in pensions is provided for by the implementing legislation. According to Article 107 (1) it is a government regulation. Government regulations have not been issued on this matter. It hasn't been released yet. Pensioners' entitlement to an increase in pensions is therefore based only on the issue of the relevant government regulation, which sets out specific parameters for the increase. If the establishment of an increase in pensions were simple, government regulations would not have to be issued. While it is true that procedures are a little easier in the case of extraordinary valorisation, it is a principle that should apply equally to both proper and exceptional valorisation. It is therefore wrong to consider that, in the event of proper valuation, the government is entitled only by issuing a government regulation and, in the case of extraordinary valuation, the government's regulation is not actually necessary, since it does not constitute an entitlement to an increase in the government's regulation. That's what I think is really important. Again, I've said it here several times in the last two days, what it will be and how extraordinary valorisation will be applied, it really clearly says, and at that moment the legal claim arises, and at that moment legitimate expectations arise when a government order is issued. In other cases, this could be implied that when the Czech Statistical Office issues some value, we are creating some other legitimate expectations in relation to some support for the social system and so on. It is always crucial, then, for these things, how the other implementing legislation is then fulfilled. I would also like to mention what was being said here, and that is that the government is not thinking enough about our seniors, their life situations. I would like to mention some of the arguments that I have also made in the last two days during my speeches. What has already been said here today is really necessary to look at the development of pensions in the Czech Republic compared to the average net wage, and when we look at it since 2020, we have been moving at 55 percent of the average income in 2010 against the net average wage. In 2013, it was even 57 percent. When we look at the lowest value in the last 13 years, it was in 2018, 51 percent of the average income against net wages. In 2021, it was 50 per cent, and during 2022 and 2023 we reach 56 per cent, 60 per cent, and if the government's proposal to amend the law is implemented, we will reach 62 per cent of the average income compared to the average net wage in this country. We mentioned the comparison here with the average gross wage, actually it's in different percentages, but it's very faithfully copying what I said a while ago. [[unintelligible]] I have also given some context here, not that I would like to say here in some way whether the situation in Slovakia is better or worse, but as a context here I have also mentioned how the situation is developing, for example, in this country, which is quite close to us in a lot of ways. And here, when we look at the development, for example, in 2022, the average pension against average wages in Slovakia was 40 percent and 45 percent in 2023, while in the Czech Republic, we are developing the average pension by getting less than 41 percent in a year and a half, this year we will get more than 50 percent in terms of the average wage. As far as the absolute amount is concerned, the average pension in the Czech Republic will be above CZK 20,000. [[11.20 hours]] What I think is really worth looking at is the distribution of the pensions in the Czech Republic and how many pensions groups receive. The most frequently collected pension in this country is CZK 21,000. You can see that it's also a fairly balanced distribution. The pensions that, let's say, are below the threshold of 15 or 14 thousand, are relatively small. I would also like to remind you that quite significantly socially helped the introduction of the educational, which we have had here in recent years many times a very intensive debate. I myself was here at least twice as a petitioner, Pavel Bělobrádek was the promoter of the educational. We have tabled several amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. We were opposition MPs at the time. The House rejected this several times, with the justification of the representatives of the coalition government of Andrej Babiš, that they do not want to apply the training. We have often heard the reasoning given that perhaps our proposal is not legislatively correct, and so on. In the end, we managed to promote education. It has been enforced, and I say this correctly, on the proposal of Roman Sklenák across, I think, by the support of the entire Chamber of Deputies. This training has been going on since January of this year and helps to appreciate the merit of mothers especially for raising children, for raising today's productive generation. It's about 1.4 million of those who are entitled to education. It has greatly helped to improve the unfair situation where mothers who raised us, today's productive generation, were actually punished for raising that system, because in those past years, especially before those 20, 30, 40, years ago, those scissors in the pay of women and men were much more open than they are now. That means a woman who was on parenting and maternity leave, so part of her career opportunities escaped, and an increase in pay. The system, which is up to now or has been based solely on merit from the point of view of the amount of social security contributions, was actually punishing it in a really significant way then even on the future retirement term. This has been removed, and these women here - because these men are around 40,000 - so these women really have a pension since 1 January thanks to this higher CZK 1,000. So it needs to be seen in context when we're talking about whether or not the government forgets or forgets and helps elderly people and so on. There were suggestions if we didn't postpone it, that's what some economists said. The government has decided that there will be no delay. For us as KDU, we must say clearly that this is a major priority. It's just, it's educational here and it will be. I see this as a really significant step forward in the fact that we know how to put emphasis in the pension system as well as in the fact that those parents had the courage to go into it and raise children, have children, invest in their education. I think that this is the basis at all for this pension system to be sustainable in the future, for sustainable public finances, for a health insurance system, because simply without children, the company is screwed, and we must, in this form, and the economic one, really appreciate the courage of parents and their efforts in raising children. This has been done and we will definitely continue to develop this in the framework of the pension reform, which I will now definitely discuss in March at several meetings with representatives of both coalition and opposition parties, representatives of social partners. I'm also trying to build on what the consensus was on the last committee. I don't think it's fair here to say that the committee hasn't solved anything, it hasn't moved anything. Yes, she was chaired by Danuše Nerudová, and I have information on the fact that there was agreement on many basic principles on how to deal with changes in the pension system, how to deal with them also in terms of income, even in terms of fairness. So I will be happy to cooperate on this, and I will be happy if the statements that were made by politicians who were part of a government coalition at the time, such as the Minister of Finance, or what statements he said about the fundamental fundamental things, like Andrej Babiš, if they remain in force and if we can build on them. I'll be glad if it doesn't happen that now, at once, when these people have gone into opposition, they have no responsibility, so that it's turned 180 degrees, and it's all going to be different. Because these are important things, they're not easy, some parameters don't even make popular decisions. But if all of us here really mean that we have a responsibility for this country, for future generations, then I don't think we can hide from it and say it's gonna wait somewhere, we're not gonna make decisions about it or anything like that. The last thing I want to mention here is our particular proposal. This proposal of ours really only concerns the revision of the June extraordinary valorisation. The proposal also takes into account the comments that have been here in recent months precisely on the fact that scissors between low- and high-income seniors are opening up in the fact that the standard of living is really getting worse with the low-income ones. That's why the government's proposal is based on the fact that we're giving the 400 crowns to everyone across the spectrum, and then it's the split of 2,3%, where the merit file is left as well. It's actually a key change in the fact that, let's say here, we can take more into account the urgency, the burden of the situation, at a time when we have high inflation, so that we can really help these people with the below-average and low pensions. For people who have a pension somewhere below CZK 8 150, this is also a factual increase compared to the current valid valuation scheme. That's what I wanted to add. Thank you so much for your attention. I appreciate those who have performed here for the last two days in a matter of fact, namely, have also held on to the structure of this House's actions. Unfortunately, it was just part of the show. A great part of this has been devoted to things that are completely unrelated to the structure of the debate, where we have progressed in parts, such as the confirmation of the state of legislative emergency. Many of these factual factual remarks have often turned into a completely different plane. I want to mention one more important thing here, and that is precisely what has been mentioned here by some, and that is the question of the procedure that has been chosen here. This also means a limitation of the right to the time of the performance, the shortening of those times, and then the decision that we are going to vote at some point. I would also like to read here the key findings of the Constitutional Court, which have already dealt with this issue in the past. This is the constitutional finding number 55/10, mainly in points 72 to 76, which concerns the misuse of the state of legislative emergency and any related risks. He says: "It is always necessary to seek and assess the balance between the legitimate interests of the ruling majority and the parliamentary opposition or minorities when deciding on the level of the level and spreading the guarantees of any of the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as their exercise. On the one hand, not admitting some of the above-mentioned rights to the opposition, or factually preventing their proper and undisturbed performance as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, can lead not only to weakening the legitimacy of the exercise of power, but to constantly restricting, or even violating, fundamental democratic principles, the democraticity of the political system itself." On the other hand, "Too much and a wide range of guarantees for individual rights of the parliamentary opposition can lead to its frequent abuse and abuse by the opposition, which may result in weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. It is therefore essential that individual rights and authorisations guaranteed by the parliamentary opposition also correspond to certain obligations and responsibilities for their exercise. Parliamentary opposition, in addition to the necessary respect for the rule of law, is required not only for its constituents to play the role of so-called responsible and constructive opposition. [[11.30 hours]] Although it is rather a moral appeal that depends on the overall level of political culture prevailing in society, the necessary condition for the proper and effective performance of parliamentary opposition functions is that it is carried out in a constructive and responsible manner which corresponds to the legitimate functions of the opposition as a genuine alternative to the government's majority, or corresponds to the functions of supervision and control over the activities of the ruling majority. This requirement is, among other things, an expression of the government's principle of time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u57	Yes. I will ask your colleagues to keep your voice down so that you can finish your speech in peace. I will also ask in the left side of the hall for any discussions to be redirected to the foyer and Mr. Vice Prime Minister can finish his speech in peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u58	Thank you. This requirement is, among other things, an expression of the principle of government at a time when both the current ruling majority and the minority should bear in mind that they do not belong to one or the other group forever, and the current ruling majority may soon be in the position of a parliamentary minority and vice versa. Therefore, such decisions should not be taken which would in fact prevent the exercise of the rights guaranteed by one or the other group.' I think that even the course of the last two and a half days has, let's say, a practical connection to how it has been done here in the past. Personally, I myself, as a member of the then government coalition majority, experienced the obstruction of the opposition's actions, such as when the EET was discussed, when the time for speaking was gradually reduced, when the vote, the withdrawal and interruption of the speaker who spoke here, was also fixed, and the vote came up. I have also experienced, as an opposition MP, the fact that I and the government coalition, today's opposition, have also reduced the limitation of my speaking law, I have respected it. And I think that the discussion we're having here, and the principle is consistent with the Constitutional Court finding that I just read here, or quoted some parts of it directly. I don't think it's possible to say such strong words here that by obstruction, the decision of the government's democratic majority will be prevented once and for all. We can definitely argue, we can see to some extent here that obstructive negotiations are taking place for a few hours or maybe one or two days. That is simply something that belongs to parliamentary democracy. It's supposed to be at some decent, reasonable level that reflects our level. And if the opposition here clearly states that it will have this bill assessed and its process assessed by the Constitutional Court, I think it is a sufficient, clear and strong message to assess, if any, whether the opposition has been denied any rights, whether the government proposal is committing itself in some areas of retroactivity or not fulfilling any expected rights acquired, and so on. Thank you so much for your attention and I'll look forward to the next debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u59	Thank you. Now the factual remarks that will follow Mr. Vice Prime Minister's speech. The first will be Mrs Peštová, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I will apologise: Mr Bašta apologises all day for health reasons, Mr Kobza Jiří apologizes until 11 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Kubík apologizes within 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Kuchař apologises from 15.30 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Lacina Jan apologises until 11 o'clock for work reasons and from 13.30 to 16.30 for health reasons, Mr Richter Jan apologises for work reasons, Mr Špičák Julius apologises for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Výborný Marek apologises from 10.15 to 11.30 for work reasons. Minister Bek takes back his apology from today, and Mr Nekula apologizes for his entire day of business. [[Minister]] So, we're in factual notes. Mrs Peštová, please have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like, of course, to respond to the Minister, although perhaps again, you will shorten us again with another procedure, but I am going on. Annual inflation in 2022 in September was 18 percent. Minister, I can't see you, so I'm sorry to have your back. [[Minister Jurečka is on the phone in the corner of the hall, not in the government desk.]] She was 18 percent. Even then you knew the inflation was high, which means you could have predicted, and those predictions were here, and you could have done it by then. Even the constitutional lawyers I mentioned here, whether this is Professor Gerloch, Pavlíček, are experts on constitutional law, or Mr Preuss is already saying and leaning towards the opinion that we are leaning on, which means that last September you were able to prepare this amendment. This amendment is nothing complicated, you're basically just changing the valorization formula, when you say 400 crowns plus some percent - 2.3 percent. I'm asking, is that the thing that we talked about here, I'm saying, two hours, one hour by morning - why didn't you start working on this novel in 2022? And when you start to argue that you didn't know that the predictions and all that... No. Preliminary caution is here, and it was appropriate. That means you could have put together the amendment, you could have gone into a proper legislative process. And if you're gonna argue with me by having to approve the budget and we didn't know and the numbers and so on... So you could go to the budget commission. It's not really a problem. I mean, when you joined the government, the budget commission was here, too. So you're good with a budget commission. So these stories about you having to have the budget at all costs... You didn't have to have him at all costs! So that's one fact that I would, of course, mention in the speech that I'm not going to get to because you're going to cut us off again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u61	Time. That's right. I'll limit you now after two minutes. Mr. Mašek will appear. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u62	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the Vice Prime Minister, who said here that it does not apply that the government does not think of the elderly. Yes, the government is thinking about seniors. Prime Minister Fiala has already proved it. And it was in October last year, when he told the media, he attacked the elderly and said that the budget deficit was due to an increase in pensions. [[He's showing the material.]] So you knew about the problem. You knew about the valorization formula, you applied for it, and you called it a problem that the seniors needed to be dealt with. But those seniors were supposed to deal with some perspective, and you should have dealt with it since last year, when you knew the predictions of inflation. Even Mr Stanjura knew the forecast of inflation for this year and he knew it would be double-digit. And you didn't spend any money on the valorization. So it's really true. And that's the one side of the coin. Once again, you knew about the problem, it was being mediated, and you claimed it. However, you didn't do anything, you waited until now, and by legislative shortcut, you're trying to rape the normal legislative process and actually rob a pensioner in broad daylight. And on the other hand, you've just reviewed your programming statement, we've got it in our hands. [[He's pointing.]] And I would point out one important point. In the public administration, you have committed yourself on the basis of the inventory of all agendas by the end of 2022 to present concrete plans to reduce the number of administrative posts - we will cancel unnecessary official performance, we will make the necessary services more effective. It didn't happen. On the other hand, you put the state apparatus on your people, and you've made the state's operation expensive. So there's a clear contradiction between promises and actions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u63	Time, Mr. Ambassador. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond quickly, I have four comments, to the Minister's speech. The extraordinary thing - our conflict is that we don't see the extraordinaryness of the situation there, because the inflation, as it evolves and as it evolves, the prediction is essentially identical for six months, more or less. Yes, there's a step, that's true. But it's no different than, let's say here, let's say it's completely illustrative, that there's one-- two-- 3% inflation, and suddenly it's going to go up to 12 percent. That's what you're actually trying to tell us. It's not like that. That's the first point. [[11.40 hours]] Two. I think it's unfair - and I've already explained to the Minister of Finance here, he accepted it because he hasn't responded - to put as the main argument the ratio between the average pension and the average wage, with 39 per cent in the previous year, and today it's 49 per cent, which is 10 per cent higher. And I was explaining why. Because you can think of it as one of some comparative arguments, not the most important. Because the moment you have low inflation, your real wages are growing, so even though you have some sort of valorization, the scissors are expanding. While the moment real wages go down, you have a lot of inflation, there's a valorisation mechanism going on, so it's possible that it's going to get closer to the average wage. That's true, but that doesn't say anything about the options of the seniors, because their consumer basket is different from the rest of the company. That means inflation is crushing them a lot more in this case. So the number itself is indeterminable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u65	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you for keeping it. Next, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will speak with a point of fact, Mrs Mádlová will prepare herself. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would take the liberty of responding to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that this proposal is making here. I would like to react again with that remark that Minister Jurečka was in government in 2014 to 2018. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was assigned to their Deputy Minister, who was in charge of pensions. So she probably didn't do anything about it. And I would also like to point out that when you went to the government, you said not only that you would ensure a decent life for the elderly and that you would protect the pensions, but at the same time you said how prepared you were for the government, how you had a lot of things prepared. So I'm asking, why don't you come up with a proposal in a year and three months and come up with something to change in the middle of what those seniors are entitled to? And the second point is that you did it so that the scissors wouldn't open up so much, and that you would add to the pensioners who have a pension of CZK 8,000. Do you know how much they're gonna add? 36 crowns. Thirty-six crowns! I beg you all to see this - from 8 456 to 8 492. [[Shows the paper with the inscription 36 CZK.]] Please applaud the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for adding 36 crowns to the elderly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u67	Mrs Mádlová will make another point of fact, and Mr Feranec will be prepared. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u68	Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, I would like to stop by the educational staff, which you have mentioned here and quite emphasized. I'm sure it's an amount that's probably good for our pensioners, especially at today's prices and inflation. Unfortunately, until a week ago, I could read that the coalition was arguing about education, ODS and TOP 09 would want to limit it and valorize the people. I think that's a pretty vague signal, as you say, towards the elderly, because they don't know at all that this education will stay, and obviously you'll argue within the government, and that's probably very much whether it stays or doesn't stay. So I'd like to ask, what is it about this education? Because you're the one who emphasized him here. Does that mean that seniors can rely on this training to continue? And then you want to valorize him, which means if you can enforce and defend this, and if we don't get into the same situation next year when we're going to be dealing with educational valorization here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u69	Mr Feranec will now appear, Mrs Peštová will be prepared for a factual remark. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to the speech of Mr Jurečka's Deputy Prime Minister, because I suspect that in a few moments a decision will be taken, where you will prevent me from speaking in a debate where I am registered and there are about 20 others before me. The Deputy Prime Minister here interpreted the Constitutional Court's decision - now he has left, excellently, but someone will tell him - and dealt with an equal assessment of the rights of a minority or coalition and opposition and interpreted that an excessive degree of guarantee of minority rights, and now I will shorten it, paraphrasing, could lead to a threat to democracy. So I ask: Yesterday, the coalition, me and about 30 other members of the ANO movement prevented you from filing a counterclaim for a procedural motion. Furthermore, you have prevented all members of the ANO movement from taking up the issue of whether or not there is a state of legislative emergency. All of them, including those with priority rights. You haven't allowed anyone. Today, you've limited some Members to two or five minutes, and I'm afraid you're about to be unable to perform again. So I'm asking, and if the Minister isn't here, maybe someone will answer -- our act was such a threat to democracy that you had to touch it? [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Was that really true? If anyone answers me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u71	Mrs Peštová will continue with a point of fact, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u72	Thank you for your word. The Minister here likes to quote one of the Constitutional Court findings, I also have one Constitutional Court finding - 53/10, where it says: It is the responsibility of every government to base the draft state budget law on applicable legislation and, if it considers it useful to make their changes in time - in time! - has exercised its right to submit an appropriate bill, through which it would have achieved the required changes. Even if, as a result of such delay, the State Budget Act had not been adopted before the first day of the financial year, this would not in itself have been an exceptional circumstance, since the consequences of this situation are foreseen by the legislation on budgetary commissions within the meaning of Section 9 of Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on amendment of later regulations. I ask, Minister, why didn't you respond in September when the annual inflation was 18 percent? As my honored colleague Patrik Nacher said here, the percentage was moving plus minus one percent, two tops. That means we were moving in high percentages, high numbers. You should have responded, with prior caution you should have let this amendment into interdepartmental commentary proceedings and dealt with properly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Nacher will now appear, Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I've responded to this extracurricular thing, it's really on some round table, I've just been sitting there with my colleague Haas, moving on month-on-year inflation, which can be predicted, what can't be predicted. I responded to the average pension versus the average wage. And now I have two more notes. Valorisation mechanism and obstruction. That valorisation mechanism, we've been saying here from the start, I've been saying here about the seventh time, it's a normal political legitimate debate that we're ready for. Let's see, let's change the parameters, maybe we agree, maybe we don't, that's a normal political issue, and then most decide, that's okay. [[11.50 hours]] What I'm saying is that the moment we open the debate about changing the valorisation mechanism, there's not gonna be the situation that Minister Jurečka presented here, that's the 600 billion in relation to the future. It's just not like that. Because the moment we change the mechanism, we're going to change the curve. It's just plain obvious. The fact that future inflation also has an impact on this, and it would be right in a moment if there were suddenly deflation, so that the elderly would grow more quickly from a larger foundation, while prices would fall down, so then I would possibly consider it. And as for the obstructions, ladies and gentlemen, for the audience, maybe even for a visit from up there. I'll remind you that there are two kinds of obstructions, and it depends on how the majority stands up to it. When we were in the coalition, we stood up to it so that the meeting day ended at seven or nine o'clock that day, which means that you managed to build 270 days with EET, because it always ended and then it went on in a week and so on, while you are going to the power that you are going through the night, major, nonstop, weekends and so on and so on and it is intensifying within a few days. And that's the problem. That's the problem! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u75	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Vondráček will appear, Mrs Balaštíková will prepare for a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u76	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to Minister Jurečka. I applied when he said the term "rule of government" on time. I just want to compliment him on the nice performances, the nice graphs and such performances are part of the first reading of the standard legislative process. That's where he should get off, and that's where I'd compliment him. [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] But not in a short trial after two sleepless nights! That's the crucial reason. If he says there's never been such a strong statement from the opposition that we'll never let go of anything, then I've been here nine years, and for the first time I've heard it from Miroslav Kalousek at the EET, who repeatedly publicly declared that EET will never, ever pass. Now he is Mr. Jurečka's coalition partner, who used to call him and refer to him as a pig pimp. It's just the cycle of life. Once you're a partner, once you're an enemy. It would take a little consistency and some real perspective. And I would like to mention the constitutional finding of 26 of 2016. He's the one who handled the EET. He wasn't entirely clear. We know that. He wrote to the court that it cannot be ruled out that there was an intervention in constitutionally protected values and principles, as defined, but that the plaintiff... That means those opposition MPs didn't really write it down, they didn't really do it, and so the court didn't decide. I'll translate into Czech: if they got more work done with it, they might have succeeded then. But what did the court take into account then? That the sense and purpose of the Rules of Procedure were fulfilled, because this is not only mentioned in the number of days when the third reading took place, but also in the overall time distribution beginning in December 2015 and ending in February 2016. So much space has been given to the opposition to the EET to comment on this so that they can respond to changes and raise amendments. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] What are you doing to us? We've got a few hours and a night, and you won't give us a lunch break!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u77	Time! Thank you. Now, Mrs Balaštíková, Mr Foldyna will be ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u78	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I have asked you, Minister Jurečka, several times why you did not enter into negotiations with the churches, when actually thanks to the inflation clause they will have sudden profits. I've already talked about this to windfall tax, and since I think your party is close to it, I've asked what difference it makes when we pay them off, and to valorize pensions in relation to high inflation, not when today's press told me that 400,000 pensioners are below the income poverty threshold. So you do this measure, you don't think about these people, maybe you're even counting on a lot of these people not coming for the welfare benefits that you love to throw away, and you're doing nothing to make the money where they're lying, to use it, and to really work on making the pension scheme different. I said here they're already criticizing you from their own ranks. So I'd like you to answer those questions that I had in relation to what's different, that the churches get this claim that they have from the inflation clause, the pensioners don't, because even that, I think, is an economic loss, as you like to call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u79	Yes, thank you. Mr. Foldyna will now appear. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u80	Thank you. I'll be in a hurry. I'm looking at social media, people commenting on our performances here, and I'm having a really good time. A fellow Member from the Civil Democratic Party is taking a photograph of a pensioner from Vysočina and he says: I agree with the Minister of Finance. We've got enough, we don't want more, we don't want to slow down, everything's fine. Then you look at the SPOLU website and here they have an advert: We have a lot of work to do. Inflation for Babiš 5.3. We got a lot of work to do. And then a friend of mine comments here and writes: After a year of hard work, Petr Fiala's government managed to reduce inflation from a horrible 5.3 behind Babiš to quite acceptable 15,7 for us! That's great! Those are comments! We're having fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u81	Mr President, the factual point is that it responds to the previous debate. [[Mr. Foldyna is trying to respond.]] Let me finish. If we were to use factual notes to comment on what someone is putting on social media, we wouldn't really stop here. So I'm going to ask you to respect what factual remarks are used for next time, and to comment on the social networks of other colleagues, you have chosen a different space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u82	Thank you for the lesson. But I reacted to the Minister because he doesn't watch the social media and he's talking about something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u83	I'll ask Mrs Peštová to make a point. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u84	I would therefore like the absent Minister Jurečka to arrive because I have responded with some factual points here. Last night at the counter, he promised me how nicely we'd talk. When I told him I didn't believe his promises, I did the right thing, because I can see that nothing is being fulfilled again. So if I may ask Minister Jurečka to finish what we started here yesterday at 1:00 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u85	Thank you, Madame. That was the last point of fact. Now we come to priority rights. And I got to the priority rights that were hidden here, and I'm just gonna read the order. First will be President Okamura, followed by Vice-President Havlíček, followed by President Výborný, Vice-President Dostálová, President Radim Fiala and finally Mr Vondráček with the club's opinion. Those are priority rights for now. The first will therefore be the President Okamura, who I give the floor to, and we will take turns in the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, on the third day, the SPD has been fighting against the Fialův government robbing pensioners of the promised pension valorization. Let me just sum up that Fialův's five-calice government wants to rob all old-age, disabled, orphans and widowed pensioners, which means the beneficiary of these pensions, on average CZK 1,000 a month from June this year. This means that this year all these pension recipients, and they are about 3 million citizens of the Czech Republic, the Purple Government wants to rob it of CZK 7 000 and of course next year it will be on average CZK 12 000 and more, because, of course, the next possible valorisation will be calculated on a lower basis. That means the amount that the Purple government will take away from those 3 million pension recipients will increase. And I'm here for the SPD to stop you. That is why I have prepared another performance where I want to explain to you in detail that you are not supposed to do this, that you are doing it wrong and that you are not to rob the Czech citizens needed, and especially in the most socially sensitive groups. [[12.00 hours]] Now we're at the point where we're supposed to judge, or the House is supposed to assess the terms for discussing your government proposal to rob senior citizens in a short-term hearing. I say for myself that we, as the SPD, do not agree that this should be discussed in the short-term negotiations, and we believe that there are no conditions for short-term negotiations. We simply want this proposal to be rejected for a) to be rejected, the SPD wants you to withdraw the bill, you still have time, you still have time to examine your conscience and end this betrayal to 3 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic. If you outvote us because 20 SPD members are fighting against a huge number of 108 government MPs, so if you overvote us, of course, we want this to be properly discussed in all committees, not in a short hearing, so that we can comment on it and we can criticise it and reject it so that we can defend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u87	I'll cut you off, Mr. Chairman. I just want to make peace, especially here in the left side of the hall. I'm gonna ask you to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u88	What we are talking about here can be summed up in one question. Can anyone rely on the Fialův government to retire from the state? No. The government's marching changes the rules according to how it needs to manipulate public money. That money doesn't belong to her, and it doesn't belong to the state. It belongs to people who have worked for decades, who have paid for it in order to secure it. The money was paid by their ancestors. Their children pay them, too. If the money that belongs to the elderly by law is taken by the Fialův government, then it's embezzlement and fraud. Fraud immoral, fraud rude, fraud illegal, fraud unconstitutional. None of you will. Speaking of representatives of Fialův's five-calice government, i.e. Pirates, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and KDU-ČSL, about the economic damage allegedly caused by giving the disabled and the elderly what is legally theirs. You want to rob them of the money they're legally entitled to, and you say it'll cause economic damage if you give them the money. In doing so, they spent their entire lives taking money for social security and expecting adequate retirement. So you're talking about the fact that pension recipients are going to cause economic damage, well that's an incredibly disgusting expression, and we in the SPD absolutely cannot agree with that. Again, at the turn of the year, the Fialův Government and its MPs have valued their salaries in quotation marks at a legal level. Senior politicians, judges and prosecutors at 1. 1. 2023 has increased wages by around 12.7 percent. The SPD's movement voted against an increase in the salaries of politicians. On the basis of the votes of the members of the Purple Government five-wheeler, the minister's salary increased by CZK 22 100 a month to CZK 195 300 a month. The salaries of ordinary Members increased to CZK 102,400 a month, which is CZK 11,600. In addition, their legal compensations increased by between CZK 5,900 and CZK 8,000 according to the distance of their permanent residence. The SPD will propose to freeze politicians' salaries again and again for the entire parliamentary term. You rejected my proposal last year to freeze salaries for the entire parliamentary term, but of course we continue to propose it, and this bill of mine has been inserted here in the House's system since the fall before last year, and you've been blocking it for me. My proposal was voted on once, that was the amendment to your salary increase, and you rejected it, but I made it on my own, and that's what the government's five-calice is blocking. So we want to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire election period, and you've got them here, Fialův's five-calice government has raised them here. Why am I talking about this? Because you're adding to yourself, but you want to rob 3 million old people of their legal amount. And purposefully here this week, which is why I'm defending it for the SPD, and I'm defending 3 million pensioners from the robbery, so you, when it comes to 3 million pensioners who need money, you can bend the law to take the money away. You're proposing a change of law. But when it was meant to be about you raising your own politicians' salaries, you voted that out of the law, and you rejected my proposal to freeze politicians' salaries. So that's how Fialův's five-caliber government is acting. And just a moment ago, journalists asked me that it is not enough that you want to soot even more, and the Mayors and Independents, STAN, suggest that the salaries of local politicians should be increased, because, of course, there are five government politicians in the leadership of cities and municipalities. We are in a number of councils of cities and municipalities, but we are not in the coalition mostly because you have agreed, the hand washes, exactly the government's five-calice, but also with the representatives of the ANO movement, but what I want to talk about is that the Fialův's five-calice and STAN, the Mayors and the independent, are proposing an increase in the salaries of local politicians, the mayors, the councillors and others. So it's not enough for you, you'll be full of STAN Vít Rakušan, the government party, you want to milk the state budget at the expense of those pensioners you want to rob, the 3 million people that you want to add to yourself not only as MPs, you've already added that, and ministers, but you want to add to yourself as mayors and councillors at municipal level. Well, we disagree. The SPD clearly states that we are opposed to increasing the salaries of politicians. We're making this very clear. We are alone here because the five-calice government just wants to add to its politicians at local levels, in cities, municipalities and so on. And so that it is not enough for the government's Members to eat as much as possible to milk the state budget to the maximum, you are proposing to increase the quotient for the continuance of functions. This means that you are still suggesting, because last year, thanks to the SPD's votes, this has decreased, which means that when the constituencies of the position of Member and mayor, as concerns most government MPs, of course, there was actually a accumulation of wages. That means they received a high wage as mayors and as MPs. This has decreased slightly in the last parliamentary term, thanks to the SPD's votes, but now you want to increase it again. This means that the government Members, led by the members of the STAN Víta Austriana movement, are little, and yet the Members who accumulate functions, that is, are also mayors and councillors, that is, paid positions at the level of cities and municipalities and, at the same time, you are Members, so you still want to increase the quotient so that you can get even more on salary. So you don't get between 100 and 200,000 a month, you want 300,000 a month. [[Scream from the right side of the hall: Half a million.]] Yes, the government MP here said he wants half a million a month. That means these are the reactions of the government's MPs. I'll, of course, then, because I don't know your name, we'll look into it after exactly who said it, and we'll put it on the net that you want half a million a month, he heard the whole O.R. Well, that's a remarkable response, a government MP, yes. So -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u89	Sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr President, but I'm gonna ask the Member not to shout from the scene.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u90	Thank you. Thank you for the correct response. So, yes, government MPs can't behave and they're shouting out here in violation of the Rules of Procedure because they want to soot even more money, and we're trying to throw them a pitchfork. [[12.10 hours]] The SPD says not to increase the salaries of politicians, but the government MPs are so thrilling that they're even screaming in a coveted way that they want half a million a month even. The situation is really trivial, the moment the government here presents a bill that you want to rob 3 million pension recipients of their money. And I don't agree with that, which is why the SPD here is fighting it with all its strength. The annualisation of pensions, depending on inflation, was enshrined in the law so that governments could not steal from pensioners because of their liking. However, the current antisocial government has decided that the percentage ratio will rise not by a legal amount of 11.9 %, but only by 2,3% of the percentage ratio. The average pension was to be increased according to the Act of CZK 1,771, and the government wants to push through Parliament an increase of only CZK 756. As mainstream media writes, the state will only save tens of billions of crowns this year. But those are the billions that the Fialův government will steal from specific old and helpless people. Instead of cutting off the necessary expenses, for example, you pay tens of billions to solar barons here, tens of billions here go to Ukrajinec living in the Czech Republic, while Czech pensioners and pension recipients want to rob. You just keep paying off doses that aren't adaptable. Last year, you rejected the SPD bill to end the abuse of doses inadaptable, so there's only a billion left. Those are your priorities. But for us, priorities are decent people. Public law also includes social security law. What does this government do? He's stepping on the right of people to at least have the basic legal certainty. Why? We know that. He needs to spend money elsewhere. And not for the benefit of our citizens. So he spends them cheerfully. We're in a moment where the Fialův government spends and throws away like crazy money abroad or for their political newsrooms and wants to take money from people in need. People who can't defend themselves. The SPD movement will always defend the needy old and helpless people that the Fialův government has thrown overboard. The Fialův Government simply wants to rob 3 million beneficiaries of old age, disability, widows and orphans' pensions. There are 20 MPs in the SPD. The government coalition has 108. He's a huge outnumber against us. But the SPD fights for all pensioners and all decent citizens. Stealing from the weakest so you can spend elsewhere is nothing but a despicable act and your shame. Shame on you, Members and Ministers of the Purple Government! Because the situation in the Czech Republic is really very serious. Already a million Czech citizens live below the poverty line. And their numbers have increased significantly during the current government. The decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is the most significant of all Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development - OECD, i.e. basically all European countries. And we're just saying it's a problem. The number of Czech households with income below the poverty line increased from 9 per cent during 2021 to 17 per cent due to the Fialův Government. There are about 9 percent of the population in the execution, and in some poorer regions it is even up to 16 percent! Now they're full of news media about how you are unprecedentedly indebting the Czech Republic. Only in February's debt to the Czech Republic has the debt increased as in total over many years, in several previous governments. And the media is still silent about it. So they're references, sometimes it flashes, I've seen several articles. But I think the mainstream media should stop talking about this and just name the evil of your government clearly because it affects everyone. You're pushing us to the fullest of the Greek script! That means the Czech Republic doesn't have to get out of these debts just because of the incompetent government. You are with the government for a year and a quarter and it is the worst, economically and organizationally it is the worst government ever in the history of the Czech Republic, since the independence of the Czech Republic. And I think the silence, when many commentators remain silent so far, many media are still silent that it is indeed doom. So I would also like to ask everyone to stop talking and make it clear that they name this evil that the Fialův government is doing here, because it's pulling us all down, bringing us all down. And the problem is, it won't be much longer to return. Today, the situation is that 25 percent of Czech households can no longer afford a sudden spending of around 10,000 without debt, and they are families with children, they are pensioners and so on. The average Czech household now spends 48% of its income on housing and food. But low-income households account for up to 70 percent of their income. And the responsibility for this situation is clearly, clearly, the government of Petr Fiala. And as a result of the crippling policy of the Fialův Government, our working citizens are facing the highest annual decline in real wages, and that decline is by 8.9 percent, and it is even from all the countries associated with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. That means, in all and international parameters, the Fialův government is basically the worst of all. But the problem is, if you, government politicians, at least, pay for it, but you pay your own salary, and you want to add, the SPD is against raising the salaries of politicians, but at the same time, you're losing people's money. And that's the totally unacceptable scenario. The problem, of course, is that about a million Czech seniors at this point already have a problem with a lack of income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood. In your reign, nearly 50,000 seniors are in the process of execution. And the numbers I'm saying are the study of the project, the Invisible Project. When there is simply an analysis, where millions of seniors are simply unable to pay for their livelihoods and at the same time the state cannot provide them with social assistance, which, of course, is fully at the heart of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, who, of course, is unable to manage the Ministry, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the ODS is unable to manage the government. Of course, why you want to rob Czech citizens of the money that they have promised on the basis of legal valorization, and already the citizens have counted on it, so you do it because of course you have sent, and you boast about it everywhere abroad and here in the Czech Republic that you are leaders in sending money to Ukraine and Ukrajinec - 50 billion crowns, 40 billion weapons, another 10 billion Ukrajinec yesterday and so on. And we pointed it out here last year. And we were under attack. I'm under constant attack by the Speaker of the House, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová. I'm under attack for pointing out that there's no money to bring Czech citizens to the pavement. I've been saying from the beginning that real war refugees had adequate help, that's what we said why not. SPD said it from the beginning. But I also said when I looked at your dilettant and incompetent government, that you would run out of money very quickly and that you would turn us into a country where the biggest debt of all European countries is rising, and I was right. Based on the figures of the European Statistical Office, EUROSTAT, based on the latest figures, published figures, now published in February figures for the third quarter of last year, so the Czech Republic is the only country even in the EU where public debt rises. [[12.20 hours]] So you're the worst government in all of Europe even. And I said there wouldn't be any money. And of course, it's always been Mrs. Speaker of the House of Pekarová Adamová's here on purpose, I'd say bent, my expression, in that I'm some sort of insensitive. Or that we're pro-Russian, which has absolutely nothing to do with it. I'm not pro-Russian. But I'm not pro-Ukrainian either. I am for the Czech Republic. For me, the Czech citizen comes first. Then don't lie over and over again. I wanted to say one thing. And now for your policy, the government's five-caliber policy, three million retirees. And yet it's impossible to leave millions of our pensioners on the floor. It is not our fault that Ukraine is a corrupt and robbed country where it is one of the lowest levels of life in Europe, because they have stolen everything there, corrupted everything. We're not responsible for the problems in all of Africa. We just have our country here where our ancestors built it, yours and mine, and these people here have the right to have decent lives and an adequate standard of living. So I think it's really completely inadequate, and I'm calling you to stop sending this money abroad. The SPD was the only party that made it clear that we were opposed to sending weapons to Ukraine. And I stand by it. I'll do it again. I'll do it again here. We are opposed to sending weapons to Ukraine, we are in favour of peace negotiations. And now you've put in 40 billion crowns, and the Prime Minister is still bragging about it. Look at the reactions underneath the video. Look at the reactions. The citizens have had enough, too! Citizens on the floor for your government, and now you want to rob them, 3 million people, about their pensions. Because you're the Ukrainian government, that's what it is. So we don't agree with this, because if the money was in the state budget, I wouldn't have a problem if the Czech citizens had a high standard of living, if you hadn't stolen the state budget, in quotation marks, with your management. Because I'm sure you can agree to an unlimited number of political deputies here for your political exponents, that's what I call stealing from the state budget. Yes, it is. I don't have another word for it. The fact that you've raised your own politicians' salaries, we've been against it, in my opinion, that's basically stealing public money. Isn't that right? That's right. And you're gonna take away the old people in parallel to that. Well, that's an incredible attitude. So if the Czech Republic were so rich and we had a standard of living here as in Germany, which we do not, which citizens do not have, then of course there would be a much wider scope for discussion, help, like Japan does, for example, one of the richest countries in the world, one of the countries, of the three strongest economies in the world, but other politicians are also running it. By the way, the program of the Japanese government party of the LDP, which essentially rules all the time after World War II, basically it's the SPD program, by the way. A conservative patriotic program, when the Japonec, Japan comes first. That is why they also have such a strict asylum policy and are extremely cautious. There is simply no concept of an illegal migrant, because where there is no supply, there is no demand. And a number of Members here, even from government parties, have been telling me over the years, when they looked at Japan and on the basis of business trips here at the House, what an admirable, great country they liked there. Well, do something about it, too, so that the country is here, with such a standard of living, with such care for seniors, by the way, and disabled fellow citizens, which I know very well. I experienced it very well myself, because of course I have a number of relatives there who are very old. That means, so if you're going somewhere for state money and you took a trip there, it would be good to learn at least how it works in the most advanced countries, but also with the management and migration policy, even with the fact that when it helps somewhere, it gives some development aid, so the state must, first and foremost, have and secure its own citizens. And that, of course, has some logic. But not like you do, when our citizens are on the floor, when our citizens don't have money, you're adding money to yourself, and you're throwing money away to God knows where. This means that this is a really bad policy, and we fundamentally disagree with that. But in this context, as I said, I also wanted to call on the President of the Chamber of Deputies to stop lying about the SPD. It's pointless, you're not gonna get any votes, and we want to work here in some way. But it was good to stop. Because the SPD at the moment that you want peace negotiations and we don't support war, you're putting an equal in it that we're pro-Russian, which, for the most part, the public is already pissed off at these statements of yours. [[Do we?]] Because no one wants war, you are the only fighters of war and you set an equal between the opinions of millions of Czech citizens, that if you are not in favour of war, that you are pro-Russian. Leave it. Or you know what? Keep saying that. It actually helps us. 'Cause this nonsense that you hear, it's just your popularity coming down. Because no one can believe that anymore. So, actually, keep saying that, your nonsense. Say it. It doesn't really matter. Or if someone does not support the European Union's policy that it is pro-Russian. That's just complete nonsense, lies. That really is an incredible shortcut. It's demagogy. With Goebbels, you could shake hands with this demagogue! With these hunts against people who don't say anything like that at all. That means these are certain things that I wanted to say here on this occasion, because my colleagues sent me some of your tweets yesterday or whatever it was. So I'm responding to that, too, aren't I? So you responded to me on your own, so I'm reacting. I'm not talking about you alone. I'm responding to your political attack on my person. So we always have to take this place apart. As the woods are called, it's coming out of the woods. I think it's obvious to everyone. So if someone on a personal level doesn't attack me and talk nonsense, then I don't have to talk about it at all, and I won't even talk about it. Why? So it's just to the edge. Or if it's on some political level of this kind of poking on some material level, it's obvious, we'll probably all be able to do it here, that's a normal political duel of argument. But not these lies and demagogy, bending my expression in a direction I didn't say at all. So I just wanted to make that very clear. But let's move on, of course. You guys are actually spending your time here, you guys have been doing a lot of work here by robbing 3 million pensioners of their pensions. But when are you going to deal with the lack of medicine in the Czech Republic? I'd like to deal with the lack of medicine here a long time ago. And now I have to spend my time here preventing you from robbing 3 million old people. That's why I wanted to ask you to withdraw the law so you can end it today, because I think most of the public is against you. Well, either way, he's against you, because those polls, we know that only 20 percent of your citizens, your five-calice, trust you now. Here I also have to smile at the argument - that I heard somewhere that when I was talking about this survey, which also took place on Mainstree, that over 20 percent of the citizens trust you, your five-calice, that means five sides together, the sum of five pages, so someone here wrote to me: well, they trust you even less as SPD. Fairy à la government five-calice. So five to one and less. [[He's laughing.]] Well, split up individually and let's see what the trust of each side is, not the five-blind, because five-on-one, that's fair in your submission, or five-on-two. But it's not fair that it's fair. You're used to that. That's a fair game of Purple's five-caliber government. So these arguments, we as a separate party, we went into the parliamentary elections separately, confidently, and we have our own agenda, and we don't need to be stuck in a five-wheeler to succeed. We're not even gonna stick ourselves in a five-wheeler. I'm telling you. Of course, there isn't gonna be any SPD blind guy working for the next election. Why? We can defend ourselves. So we have our agenda, which is clear, our political agenda that we are promoting, and we are going head-on with it, and with open eyes, with our programme we are going before our citizens, so that they can simply decide freely in democratic elections. So even the way that the House President here, through you, Pekarová Adamová labeled us here a year and a quarter ago that extremists aren't supposed to be in charge of the House and we're not supposed to be in the House's bodies, so this statement also needs to be remembered all the time. Because in my opinion, if anyone is an extremist, the word "extreme" means "extreme opinion" means "extreme opinion." And when I saw the polls, I think that the President of the House Pekarová is completely out of the main line of opinion in the Czech society. So if anybody should be an extremist here, I'm not gonna use that word, but that should be you, because you're out of the mainstream with confidence. [[12.30 hours]] So you could keep those statements for the government's five-calice. And now I've even noticed that the YES movement has been identified as extremists. So the YES and SPD movement have already marked the government representative, you've already put us all in one bag, but it's such a desperate scream that that word is losing its weight. Because if you don't have any more arguments, you're always just nastyly labeling that political opponent because you don't have a political argument. Your argument is that you want to rob 3 million citizens of their pensions. That's your program. But we don't agree with that. So even these personal attacks and these stickers, I don't mind, I can handle it, but I think it's pretty desperate. That it's very desperate and that it's been very, very awkward, like, these attacks. That means, we think it's just a patriotic and conservative program, that it's okay. I think it's right that there's nothing extreme about it. And I think it's a perfectly good democratic program, and I'm not going to change my mind anyway. So whoever from Top 09 is attacking the SPD here, so attack them, but we'll keep going, we're the positive party, that means we'll continue to submit our bills to improve the lives of citizens. Not how you make them worse, like you do. And we're just going to take a positive look at the best possible atmosphere among citizens in the Czech Republic, which, of course, is that there's an adequate standard of living, so that there's no beggars, so there's no pensioners who are begging for your government. So let's make it the best standard of living so people can have a good atmosphere and so on. But you're definitely the good atmosphere, your government, you've made it worse, as we know, you've made it worse. People have financial problems, and that's the main problem that's here. So I wanted to, too, as I appeal again, not to suggest these antisocial proposals that you want to rob 3 million old people. And I'm saying that you'd better deal with a lack of medicine like, for example, and expensive food and expensive energy. And there's been a shortage of drugs here for months. We've already pointed that out last fall, when the situation started. And we have repeatedly suggested here as an extraordinary point at the House meeting that we want to deal with the lack of medicine, and you have repeatedly rejected it here. And the situation is really alarming. So, of course, we're supporting the emergency meeting on drug shortages. But I know how this is gonna go down. You allow us here to talk about what we have priority rights, and then you cover it up again. That's the way Fialův's five-caliber government works. But that's what citizens care about. Citizens would like to know when the meds will be, but we've been asking you this for months. And not even Prime Minister Fiala, who sticks his head in the sand, he walks around in Ukraine and abroad, in Kiev and so on, but does not have time for Czech citizens. Then all we ever hear on TV is some empty speech about nothing. He recently said that he boasted that he was sending more and more Czech citizens to social benefits, which is an appalling result of the work of Fialův's five-calice government. Well, so the lack of medicine, just not Prime Minister Petr Fiala, nor the incompetent Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek of the TOP 09 simply achieved any improvement. Instead, we're hearing proposals from the government's five-wheelers for full dental care charging, which the SPD of course refuses, and so on. That means, that's really not the way the government should go in our opinion. Well, I already talked about it. So you are by throwing money away everywhere, everywhere abroad, and for nothing, of course, and I would say disproportionately, to say the right thing, so the Czech Republic is the only country in the European Union that increased its national debt year-on-year last quarter. And I have to say that I have already acknowledged the article today, when some journalists have finally taken the courage to say that - and it was also on Prima TV - there was already a discussion with an economist when - but I still miss the Czech TV in this to make a hard comment on public television about where the Fialův Government is driving us. To a complete disaster. Because the debt is so huge, the debt is rising at such a record-breaking rate that we are basically going into an economic disaster because of the Fialův government. In absolute terms, our debt has reached the level of CZK 2.98 trillion and is rising by hundreds of billions, rising at a sharp pace within a few months. That means, this is a really crazy situation. And it was those who spoke here during the last parliamentary term about budgetary responsibility that all of a sudden in government five-police forgot about it. And of course, what I've already talked about is simply - the incredibly expensive food prices. That is what I think - and we are already drawing attention to this even from the fall before last year after the election - I have already talked about this, and repeatedly, I have been proposing an extraordinary point here for a year - the solution to expensive food. Repeatedly, and even in the last parliamentary term, we have proposed here the law on food security of the Czech Republic, the SPD law, where many of you have criticized us here when we said that we wanted food security of the Czech Republic and warned about crises that will simply cause problems with food prices in the Czech Republic. Back then, some of us, some of you, mocked us, we had a lot of media in the SPD, not all of them, hit the SPD hard, probably under the influence of the multinational hypermarket lobby. I remember this Mr Prouza, President of the Trade and Tourism Union, whose members are those multinational hypermarkets, who attacked hard because he is paid directly from abroad, right, he is paid directly by those multinational chains, logically, there are membership fees, and small, in this union, so he defended the interests of foreign multinational chains and went against the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic. He fought hard for these outrageous margins of multinational chains, and this system that the European Union has set up here, by the way, this system is here thanks to the European Union. And even though our bill went through the House closely, if you remember, then in the Senate - the Senate returned it, in the Senate, where he has most of Fialův's government five-calice. And then the members of the ANO movement were scared of the pressure and, in the Senate's return, they didn't support us for the second time, the law that passed the SPD. So the law fell under the table and the result is that the Czech Republic has no food security. He doesn't. We're dependent on import. But, of course, in the case of imports from other European countries, those countries will, first and foremost, prefer their market, which is even richer. Right? So, of course, they're going to override us because there's a higher purchasing power. This means, of course, this does not have this, this simply has to be done to ensure its own food safety in basic foods that can be produced in the Czech Republic. I remember these outrageous attacks on the SPD that were here at the time of the law hearing that Okamura said that truffles should be grown in the Czech Republic. And this nonsense was even made up by those who defended these interests, foreign interests, and did not defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. What truffles? Whoever had truffles and who cared about it knows that they can't even grow in the Czech Republic, they already tried to grow truffles all over the world and found that it can't be done in just a few areas, Istria, Italy, France, and that's just somewhere, of course. That means, we've read this nonsense here, and perhaps some oranges and mandarins, perhaps something here, that in the Czech Republic. We said from the beginning that these are basic foods that can be produced in the Czech Republic. Once again... but that is simply politics, it is simply a political struggle, when those who defend foreign interests abroad and not the Czech Republic, which is precisely - these are exponents of the Fialův Government who defend foreign interests at the expense of the Czech Republic, so of course they do not realize this at all and they do not really care how ordinary citizens are in the Czech Republic. [[12.40 hours]] The problem is that 40 percent of single parents live below the poverty line in the Czech Republic. The Fialův Government is not trying to help them effectively, while supporting unnecessary spending. Well, right now, just so you know, with one parent, a total of 336,000 children are growing up. And 40 percent of them live below the poverty line. Which, of course, is a problem. Because a), it is not the children's fault, and secondly, for children to grow up in a good standard of living, it must still be the interest of the whole society and it should be the interest of all politicians that we want those children to have adequate education, to have adequate social background and, of course, to be the best part of that majority society and to be the greatest benefit to society. But, of course, the government doesn't care at all. This isn't what the Fialův government cares about. You're interested in wanting to raise your politicians' salaries, I've already talked about that, so you don't have enough yet, you want to keep increasing your politicians' salaries, this time your local politicians want to raise your salaries. Well, of course, that's unacceptable for us. So this is another thing. Well, what the government's doing now is the last thing we read today is that you're editing your programming statement. You guys have completely broken your programming statement after a year, because - I pointed it out a year ago - your programming statement is unrealistic, it's a lie and it's just a hoax. Well, it's come to my attention. Your government's programming statement is a lie, it was a manipulation, it's a hoax, it's a voter scam, it's a voter scam, first of all, because SPD voters, of course, knew who you are and what you are and that they're gonna be promises of mistakes. Well, now you've moved on to changing your government's programming statement, but at crucial moments. In crucial moments. This means that you are already openly claiming that you promised before the elections that you would not raise taxes, and now the Vice-President of the ODS and Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura speak openly about wanting to cancel your discount on your wife and husband, you want to increase your excise duties, you want to increase your property tax, you want to limit your state contributions to pension insurance. Here Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka in an interview for News, Chairman of KDU-ČSL, said that you want to increase taxes to all natural persons, and to all people you want, all people in the Czech Republic, working people, you want to steal money. Well, basically, all people, because the fact that you want to rob 3 million retired people, that's what you're proposing today. [[unintelligible]] Now you're suggesting it this week, we're stopping it here. So basically you want to take money from all people across the board, except for you, government politicians, because you've raised your own money. The SPD voted against. And now you want to raise your salaries to your local politicians, mayors and councillors. The only group that gets more money in your government is you and you're adding money to yourself. And otherwise, you take money from all groups of people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u91	Ambassador, I'm listening to you very carefully, and for the fifth time you've said the same thing. I therefore want to encourage you to speak to the matter in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that is an assessment of the conditions for the discussion of this press in a short hearing. So please, even for preferential rights, it is necessary to speak to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u92	Well, I'll put it in a broader context, 'cause maybe you missed a little thread. I'm sorry, I probably have to say it again, some things, not the same ones, but the other ones. However, my grandmother always taught me, my Moravian grandmother from Bystřice pod Hostýn taught me that repetition is the mother of wisdom, so it is an old Czech proverb. But why am I talking about this, Madam President? I am talking about this because we are currently assessing the terms and conditions for discussion in a short hearing. And here from my speech, it is quite obvious that there are no conditions for any shortcuts on such a serious issue at all. That's the point of my speech. So I think I've put it in enough context with what I just said. Or does anyone want to say that the fact that you want to rob 3 million pensioners of pensions, that there's no wider problem and that it doesn't deserve an in-depth discussion? Well, I don't think so! That is a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic in essence. So there I think we really need to say to each other here, and hopefully none of you expect me to steal money from our voters, SPD voters, and even voters of all kinds that I'm gonna keep my mouth shut or talk about it for five minutes. No way. Absolutely not! Because it's the kind of penny you want to rob our potential voters that we're not just gonna shut up about it. [[Indeed, no one expects that.]] But I've already put it in context.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u93	Anyway, about that thing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u94	I have responded positively to the fact that I immediately put it in context, so that it would suit what you are asking for. I put it in context. And that's where I've been thinking about it in general, as a government coalition. So let's see that, of course, it is not possible for this proposal of yours to be discussed. It is unacceptable for me to discuss it at all, but not at all in the shortened negotiations, because the aspects it causes, the effects it causes, are so much that it simply cannot be discussed in the short-term negotiations, and it needs to be... I suggest you take it down, of course. We're in favour of rejection, we're voting against the law. But if you accidentally push it through your 108 votes against our 20 SPD votes, I insist that this must be discussed properly in the committees, and that is my whole speech that it is simply necessary to say that the issue of pensions is very broad and serious and has great social implications. And that's why I'm talking about it and why I've been talking about it for so long. Remember that a third of Čech currently live with growing debts or with only a minimum reserve, and these people are sinking into this poverty because of the Fialův Government. So these are all important things. Fifty-seven percent of households spend their budget on difficulties. This is said by the financial health index of Česká spořitelna, the Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences and the portal Europe in data. So it simply needs to be discussed properly and not in the short-term. Okay, well, I'll repeat it more often, so that it's clear that it's satisfactory for you, that I'm not to be blamed for anything. I'm not even talking about you wanting to take basically, and in short-term negotiations like this, people don't even have money, but they don't even have one or two million Czech citizens according to surveys, according to health insurance data, a permanent dentist. And now you still want to take the money - that is what your, Madam Vice-President, exponent Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09, who you have co-opted for Vice-President of the General Health Insurance Board, who seriously proposes that in the future no dental care, nor the basic one, should be covered by health insurance. That means that people pay for it all on their own. So I'm saying again, you want to take a shortcut, just so it's done that you're robbing those 3 million pensioners for money, and I'm saying that you can't do that in a shortcut. We are against the law, and it cannot be done in a short course in my opinion. And that's my legitimate contribution to this block, when I'm debating that we just don't agree that it's supposed to be a shortcut. I have also consulted the lawyers on this point that it is necessary to repeatedly justify that there are no conditions for shortening negotiations and that we want this and that this needs to be discussed in committees, not in one, but in committees, and that is what we would also like to propose. So I'm even marked here, just so you know, here's exactly what I'm supposed to say and what kind of framework I'm supposed to put it in. It's being consulted with lawyers so I can make a proper statement here. So I'm gonna put it this far so there's no doubt that I'm making the right point here. And the content - I have even consulted legally, I will put it in the framework that we do not want, I justify that there are no conditions for shortening, we want to go into committees, which I was told is more or less up to me. But it needs to be said right here, my speech is long, that I simply justify that there are no conditions for shortening negotiations and we want it to be on more committees, and now I'm explaining the whole reason why. So thank you for the reminder. I just pulled the paper out here to put it right in the right context. And that the effects of your proposal, when you want to take the money from 3 million pensioners and reduce their legal valorization, will have a really big impact, I want to draw your attention to that, because there's record inflation in your government. Of course, this inflation is above the European Union's average, which is why your government is one of the worst, but as we know, as I have already said here, it is even the worst in Europe. [[12.50 hours]] So, of course, the current one, 17.5 percent, that's what this is all about... based on which it should be valorized. And you say no, you want to bend the law with purpose. Although people's electricity prices have increased - this is the January inflation figures - so even though we have recorded in January that electricity prices have increased by 36,4 percent according to these figures, natural gas prices by 87 percent, year on year therefore, the price of heat and hot water by 44.7 percent. Astronomically, food has also increased. The price of flour has increased by 44.2%, the price of pig meat by 36.8%, the price of semi-fat milk has increased by 39.5% in your government, the price of sugar has increased by 84.7 percent in your government and the price of eggs by 85 percent. Literally catastrophic in your government is the annual increase in electricity prices by 140 percent. So you're actually saying... And those old-timers need to get the valorization done by law, because, of course, the consumer basket has gone up a lot, so now you want to take the money away from them. Well, don't tell me... This, I think, deserves to be discussed properly in committees and not hrrr hrrr, as you say, because the fates of those 3 million people who can't help themselves - I consider it a serious problem for the SPD. Not you, you want to throw them overboard. That is why I am saying this here that, in my opinion, there are no conditions for short-term negotiations and this needs to be properly discussed in the committees. Of course, the SPD is rejecting this and we want to reject this law and we will vote against it. That's as good as it gets. Now what I wanted to get to the next stage. So, of course, I was trying to explain to you here yesterday that the pension system, that it can, can be set up in such a way, without reducing people's pensions. And again, I don't think it's for short notice. That is why we here, I am clearly telling you repeatedly here, that in our opinion, there are no conditions for short-term negotiations, because, in our view, pensions and pension reform can be dealt with in such a way, as well as in the present situation, that you do not steal money from these people. I'm the one who has to explain. I just have to explain it to you, because apparently government officials don't understand, they don't understand what pensions are. They don't even understand that these people are entitled to it. Well, I don't know how else to explain it to you, and if it's not for the record, I mean, here's the reason that there are no conditions for you to just do it differently. That's why I started here yesterday with this information that, unfortunately, the government doesn't understand what's going on here... Or you understand, you're doing this on purpose to the elderly, of course, you want to purposely rob them, you know what you're doing, exactly. But what I'm trying to tell you is that the old-age pension system and other pensions can be set up so that you don't lower the money. So let's go back to the... But I announced yesterday that I had the bachelor's thesis of this Tomáš Petružálek from the University of West Bohemia, because it just needs to be said, because you obviously don't understand it, or you don't want to understand it, that the pensions are just important and that you can't cut them short. So let's see how, for example, the old-age pension procedure is going. Well, if President Pekarová here is trying to interrupt me and jump in, then do it! Then I'll be a scapegoat. 'Cause I'm gonna be here fighting for those 3 million old men. But I don't think I should be talking. So let's take a look at the old-age pension procedure. If you hadn't suggested robbing 3 million old people, I wouldn't have had to stand here. I've been telling you all along, and we're suggesting here as a change in the program, that you're supposed to deal with expensive food, that you're supposed to deal with expensive energy, that you're supposed to deal with a lack of medicine, that you're supposed to solve for dental care to be available, and so on. But you're not, you're here to rob 3 million old people. Well, then you're surprised we're stopping it here. I just don't know what you're wondering. The procedure for granting individual pensions differs in a few points, so I decided to pursue in general and more procedures for granting old-age pensions - that is the work of the author of the bachelor's thesis - and then to highlight the differences in the procedure for granting an invalidity pension. So how's it going before the trial starts? Before a person becomes a pensioner, a pension award procedure must take place. For a proper old-age pension, the insured person must fulfil two conditions. First, to reach retirement age, second, to meet the required insurance period. A full old-age pension may be applied for at least four months before the required date of the pension. It is also possible to apply for a full old-age pension up to five years ago. In the event that the insured person does not voluntarily apply for a pension and decides to remain a earner, so-called over-serving, the percentage of the pension is increased and the proceedings are not initiated. It is possible to apply for an early retirement pension before reaching a proper old-age pension. However, the applicant must fulfil the necessary insurance periods. The insured person may apply for an early retirement pension up to a maximum of five years before entitlement to a full old-age pension. The applicant is subsequently reduced by the percentage of the pension. Recommended actions prior to an application for an old-age pension. Before applying for an old-age pension, the Czech Social Security Administration recommends that several activities be carried out, which will accelerate the process of granting an old-age pension itself. It is appropriate to determine the pension age and the required period of insurance. This information can be found on the Internet portal of the Czech Social Security Administration by means of a pension calculator, by telephone to the call centre of the Czech Social Security Administration or by asking for local social security management, by sending an informative personal pension insurance sheet containing periods of insurance, alternate periods of insurance, data on excluded times. The application can be made again on the Czech Social Security Administration portal in writing, by e-mail or by data box. An application for an old-age pension. When applying for an old-age pension, the following documents must be available: the identity card; for foreigners, a document proving their identity; evidence of study, learning, even unfinished; evidence of military service or civil service; documents proving the education of children or the care of children; decisions of district social security administration, Prague social security administration or local social security administration on the time and extent of the care of the person dependent; the employer's confirmation of the compensation paid for loss of earnings after the end of the work incapacity due to an accident at work or occupational disease; the employer's confirmation of the special contribution to the miners paid before 1996; documents proving employment abroad. The application shall be accompanied by the name and address of the foreign insurance carrier and the foreign insurance number. Where a citizen requests the payment of a pension to be credited to an account with a monetary institution, it is necessary to attach a completed form and a bank-confirmed form, which is called Application for an establishment to receive a pension by reference to the account. In cases where the applicant lacks a period of insurance and is not even in the register of the Czech Social Security Administration, the applicant may additionally prove it by ELDP, by contract of employment or by confirmation from the employer, by payroll and payroll, or by credit card, by the former ROH card, by the revolutionary trade union movement - well, by confirmation of taxable income. ELDP is one of the employers' obligations imposed by Law No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security. ELDP, which is the pension insurance register, shall be maintained by the employer for each calendar year or part of it in the months, years when the staff member was involved in pension insurance. ELDP also leads the employer for employees who receive an old-age pension. [[13.00 hours]] The following shall be entered in the ELDP: employer's identification number, name, last surname, surname, date and place of birth, place of permanent residence and birth number of the citizen, type of gainful activity, period of participation in pension insurance, assessment basis for social security contributions and contribution to state employment policy, periods which are excluded in determining the personal basis for calculating the pension, periods which, from the date of reaching the age necessary for entitlement to an old-age pension, are not considered to be the pursuit of a gainful activity for the purpose of increasing the percentage of the old-age pension. The original of ELDP shall be transmitted by the employer to the local social security authority within 30 days of the date of entry of the data, but no later than 30. 4. of the following calendar year. The employer must also hand over one ELDP employee and keep one in his register for three years. The employer has an obligation to cooperate with the social security administration. The pension application shall be received by the insured person to the local social security administration according to his permanent residence. The application shall be completed and accompanied by all necessary documents. The social security officer must always complete the application with the applicant, even if he considers that the applicant is not entitled to a pension. The application may be filled in by an agent on the basis of the power of attorney or guardian for the future pensioner. The date of entitlement to a pension is the date on which the applicant first contacted the competent authority of the Czech Social Security Administration on the granting of a pension. Decision on granting old-age pension. The social security authority shall have an obligation to issue a decision on the grant of a pension within 90 days of the submission of the application. In practice, the Czech Social Security Administration issues a decision on the granting of an old-age pension within an average of 40 days from the date of submission of the application, but the period may also be extended. These are cases where the Czech Social Security Administration detects the necessary facts with employers, administrations and so on. The decision is issued in writing by the Czech Social Security Administration and delivered to the applicant in its own hands. The decision shall become effective after the expiry of the time limit for the submission of objections, which shall be 30 days. The decision shall contain a statement, a statement of reasons and a lesson. The statement establishes, amends or revokes rights or obligations, in our case therefore confers the right to receive a pension and determines its amount. In the statement, we will also find legal provisions governing the bodies of the Czech Social Security Administration. For example, the reasons or assumptions that led to the decision include. In the last part, i.e. in the instruction, the right to bring an ordinary appeal is stated, in the case of a decision to grant a pension, the right to object. The sentence also lays down a deadline for pensioners to pay a pension to the Czech Social Security Administration. Pensions shall be paid on even days from 2 to 24 days per month. Proper remedies against the decision of the Czech Social Security Administration. From 1. 1. 2010 is possible to object to the decision of the Czech Social Security Administration as a proper remedy. The provisions concerning the appeal procedure of Act No. 500/2004 Coll., Administrative Code. The only difference is that the submitted objections are not decided by the superior body, but again by the Czech Social Security Administration. As already mentioned, the time limit for the submission of objections shall be 30 days from the date of notification of the decision. The objections must be submitted in writing to the Czech Social Security Administration or to any district social security administration, which will subsequently refer the objections to the Czech Social Security Administration. The decision must show who is doing them, what matters and what is being proposed. The objections shall include the designation of the participant and the administrative authority, the signature of the party against whom the decision is directed, the extent to which the decision is contested and the conflict with the rule of law. If the participant does not indicate the extent to which the decision is contested, it shall be deemed to be directed against the whole decision. The proceedings for objections shall be conducted separately. It shall not involve or decide on persons who have participated in the proceedings which have been the subject of the contested decision. The opposing authority is not bound by the objections, so it may also decide against the benefit of the participant. The submission of objections is a prerequisite for the possibility of bringing an administrative action before the court, i.e. to exercise the right to further due appeal. This shall be possible for a participant to submit in cases where he was not satisfied with the outcome of the objection procedure. The legal period for bringing an action shall be two months from the date of receipt of the outcome of the objection procedure. The competent court shall be a regional court in whose territory the applicant is resident or resident in its territory. The case is governed by Act No. 150/2002 Coll., Administrative Rules of Procedure, Section 71, which states that the action must contain the designation of the contested decision and the date of its notification or other notification to the applicant, the designation of persons involved in proceedings, if known, the indication of the statements of the decision challenged by the applicant, the grounds on which the appellant considers the statements of the decision to be unlawful or insignificant, the evidence that the applicant proposes to carry out his claims, the draft statement of the judgment. The applicant must attach a copy of the contested decision to the action. In some cases, the action is inadmissible, especially if the proper remedies are not exhausted - objections, where the sole reason for the action is nothing which the applicant did not seek to object when the action is directed against the reasons for the decision. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] And I'm still talking about retirement. Whoever started listening only now, I'm still talking about pensions, and I'm still talking about assessing the terms and conditions for short-term negotiations. Because we simply say that there are no reasons, there are no conditions for shortening negotiations. We want to reject this government proposal that you want to rob 3 million old people. We reject it, we vote against it. But if you happen to beat us here because it's over 108 to 20 members of the SPD, or 108 to 20 of our MPs, we just want this to be properly discussed in the committees. Not on one committee, and on short notice, but on a committee. That's why I'm talking about it so much, and I'm trying to convince you that you're just doing it wrong. I'm trying to give you all kinds of arguments. Emergency remedies. I'd say the bachelor's thesis I'm reading from here, this Tomáš Petružálek, is called Social Security for Retirement in the Czech Republic. So it's completely to the point. To explain to you that they're supposed to have decent security, not like you do. So, to the point, what I'm saying. I'm just talking to the point. And the fact that it's more extensive, because it's not clear to the government, it's not my fault. You're suggesting it here. I'm not suggesting it. An exceptional appeal against the decision of the Regional Court is an appeal. The applicant may lodge a complaint only on behalf of the lawyer. The time limit for lodging an appeal shall be two weeks from the date of notification of the judgment of the Regional Court to the applicant. The Supreme Administrative Court shall decide on appeals. Cases where an appeal can be lodged, we will find in the administrative order in Section 103, such as cases of lawlessness consisting of an incorrect assessment of the legal question by the court, the decision of the excluded judge or the court was wrongly occupied, the legal proceedings were faulty or the decision of the court itself is flawed. A claim may be lodged not only by the applicant but also by a person involved in proceedings which will exercise the rights of the person involved in the proceedings. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be bound by the scope and reasons set out in the appeal. [[13.10 hours]] The Supreme Administrative Court may suspend the proceedings, reject the complaint, or, if it finds that the complaint is justified, revoke the decisions of the Regional Court and decide to refer the matter back to the Regional Court for further proceedings, suspend the proceedings, reject the application or decide to refer the case, it shall decide on its own. Now let's take a look at the retirement payout. If the Czech Social Security Administration decides to grant a pension, the pensioner will pay it off. The pensioner pays in advance in two ways during regular monthly periods: cash-free transfer to the pensioner's account or his wife's, husband's, or cash with the help of the Czech Post. Retirement payout is free of charge, while cash payment by the Czech Post is charged, the pensioner will pay CZK 21 for each pension. Again, I point out that it's an older bachelor's thesis, but the principles, that's what this is all about. It is necessary to apply for cashless payment by applying for payment of the benefit to the bank's account in the Czech Republic. If the pensioner agrees with this, the Czech Social Security Administration pays his pension to social services facilities with a full year's stay. When applying for a pension, the pensioner may choose the same pension due date as his spouse. Payment without payment may only be made to the pensioner's account, to his spouse, to a legal guardian or to a special pensioner who has already established the municipal rules. A certificate of a judicially established guardian or special beneficiary of a pension must be attached to the pension application. It is therefore not possible to pay a pension on behalf of children, grandchildren, friends, etc. Now, let's see how the disability pension procedure is going, because even with your law, you want to rob those pensions. The degree of invalidity is assessed by the assessor of social security management. The medical examiner is a specialist in medicine and social security law. The medical examiner is based on medical reports from treating or professional doctors. The assessment process takes place by a citizen's request to the relevant district social security administration, which thinks that he is unable to continue working. The conditions for invalidity and the required periods of insurance must be fulfilled for invalidity pensions. The citizen applies for an invalidity pension in person, most often after consultation with his doctor. In the event that the citizen is unable to submit an application on his own because of his or her condition, he or she shall, with his or her consent, do so for him or her family member or agent. When applying for an invalidity pension, the citizen must document the identity card, passport or residence permit for foreigners, evidence of study or, where appropriate, teaching, and unfinished. Men present evidence of military civilian service. Citizens who have cared for children under four years of age shall provide documentary evidence of their period of care, birth certificate of the child or other evidence of their relationship with the child and a declaration of honour. It shall be submitted on the prescribed form of the employer's certificate of compensation paid for loss of earnings after the end of the incapacity for work of the employment office - occupational disease. Employer's confirmation of a special contribution to the miners paid before 1996. If a citizen wishes to pay a pension to an account with a cash institution, the application must be accompanied by a completed application and by a bank endorsed application for an establishment to pay the pension by means of an account note. Evidence pointing to employment abroad, if the citizen owns it. If some periods of insurance are missing, the citizen shall submit replacement documents proving to be profitable, that is to say, the employer's confirmation, employment contracts, witness statements and others. The employer is obliged to submit his pension certificate and the completed form of the employer's certificate in accordance with Section 83 (2) when submitting an application for a pension to his employee on the invitation to the district social security administration. 2 of Act No. 582/1991 Coll. The assessor shall draw up an opinion on disability on the basis of the reports of the treating physician. Municipal Social Security Administration will send an opinion on disability to the Czech Social Security Administration and the applicant. In addition, the Czech Social Security Administration decides either to grant, amend or reject an invalidity pension. A citizen may appeal against this decision within 30 days of delivery. The degree of disability and the amount of pension is therefore decided by the Czech Social Security Administration, not by a medical examiner. Objection is a proper remedy for the citizen. Objection shall be governed by the administrative order. A citizen can also request a health review...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u95	I'm asking my colleagues to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u96	Objection is a proper remedy for the citizen. Objection shall be governed by the administrative order. A citizen may also request a health review. After the objections, the citizen may still press charges. After the application, the opinion is drawn up by the expert committee of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Slovak pension system. In 2003, pension reform was launched in Slovakia. Until then, the pension system was built on one pillar and was close to the pension system in the Czech Republic. The demographic situation and the expected decline in working age population required a rapid change. As of 1 January 2005, the Slovak pension system has been based on three pillars. - Well, that's where the debate came up a little differently, too, so I'll put it outside the text. Because there are so many so-called inadaptables that they had to face it openly, and politicians began to speak openly and publicly about the fact that the state is not actually funded, that it is no longer possible to pay so many inadaptables and that, in fact, those working people could no longer support the inadaptables, in fact threatened a complete collapse of the system. I warn the Czech Republic about this, of course, but the Fialův Government does nothing about it again. On the contrary, as I said before, you, on the contrary, rejected the SPD law to end the abuse of doses that were inadaptable. So now that we're talking about the pensions here, it's one of the many reasons why you don't have the money or why you don't have it, they're the money in the budget, because you'd rather send the money inadaptable than valorize the pensions promised, the legal valorisation here to all the pension recipients, which, of course, is a big problem and it's evidence of your priorities. So let's go to the first pillar of pension insurance. Pension insurance in Slovakia is regulated by Act No. 461/2003 Coll., on Social Security, as amended. The responsibility of managing this insurance is inherently social, which is a public institution which conducts sickness and social insurance. The first pillar consists of two separate subsystems - old-age insurance and disability insurance. Insurance is compulsory under the law, but the law offers voluntary participation to students and unemployed. The system is financed on an ongoing basis and is managed outside the state budget. The amount of the contributions is listed directly in Section 131 of the Social Insurance Act. Working citizens are obliged to transfer 4 percent of the assessment base to the pension system and their employers 14 percent. Self-employed persons shall pay the full 18 per cent of the basis for the assessment. Under statutory conditions, the insured person is paid an old-age pension. An old-age pension is a benefit to be paid to the insured person during his old age. The conditions for the payment of an old-age pension are two - to contribute at least 15 years to pension insurance and to reach retirement age. By 2019 the pension age was 62 years old, but from 2019 until 2023 it will gradually increase. - So you see, in Slovakia they were 62 by 2019. Well, they want to raise it, as I have here in the chart, in 2023, to 63 years old. And you want 68 years. Well, that makes an incredible difference. So, as the table shows, I don't know if it's still in Slovakia right now, but here in this table I have stated that there in 2023 is a plan to increase to 63 years. Well, there you go. [[13.20 hours]] Participants in the first pillar may retire early in the old age if they fulfil the legal conditions which are: the applicant has contributed at least 15 years to pension insurance, the applicant is no more than two years short of the pension age and the early pension paid is more than 1,2 times the amount of the minimum life of a full-time person. - Of course, I will add that the SPD is fundamentally opposed to increasing retirement age over 65 years. That's what the government is promoting, and you want to raise it to 68 years. We're against it. - The applicant shall be reduced by 0,5 per cent for every 30 days between pension entitlement and retirement age. If the participant retires later, it is exactly the opposite. He shall be paid a benefit of 0,5 per cent higher for every 30 days after the pension age has been completed. Let us look at the second pillar of pension savings in Slovakia to have a comparison. I am saying this here for comparison, of course, and I am saying this so that you can see how complicated the pension issue is and that there are really no conditions for shortening negotiations. I'm saying there are simply no terms for the short-term. The operation of the second pillar of the pension system is regulated by Law No. 43/2004 Z. z., on old-age pension savings and on the amendment and addition of certain laws. An insured person under the age of 35 may enter the second pillar. The insured person may decide whether to pay the full 18 per cent of his salary to the first pillar, or whether to take at least 4 per cent - the amount of contributions to the second pillar is not unlimited - and the rest to the first pillar. After entering the second pillar, the insured person is no longer able to step out of this pillar. The insured person invests part of his salary into the second pillar and the money will be taken into account here according to the situation of the fund. The money saved in the second pillar is the property of the insured person. Savings can therefore be inherited. The selection of the contribution shall be ensured by the social insurance undertaking, which shall subsequently transfer the funds to one of several pension management companies. They'll be credited to pension funds. When the insured person reaches retirement age, he will receive a pension from two sources. The first pension will be reduced from the first pillar by contributions that led to the second pillar, and the second pension will be received from the second pillar. It may be paid by way of old-age pension, early old-age pension or survivor's pension where the widow, widower is paid. Pensions from the second pillar may take the form of a temporary or life-long pension or a programme selection. The amount of part of the second pillar depends on the actual amount of investment in the fund. Approximately 1.5 million Slovaks decided to join the second pillar in Slovakia, i.e. about 30 percent of all citizens of Slovakia. However, insured persons who retire after ten years of savings usually have lower pensions than those who choose to contribute only to the pillar of the first. Third pillar - supplementary pension savings. The third pillar of the pension system is regulated by Act number 650/2004 Z. z., o doplňkovom dôchodkovom sporing. Supplementary pension savings are voluntary. The insured person, the minimum age for entering the third pillar is 18 years old, will enter into a contract with an additional pension company that manages the selected funds. The third pillar participant, sometimes his employer, makes contributions to supplementary savings. The selected contributions are assessed on the capital market by a supplementary pension company. Calculation of the monthly pension amount. The old-age pension in Slovakia is calculated from the formula: POMBAL times ODP times ADH equals the monthly pension, and when I explain it, ODP is the pension insurance period. It represents the number of years during which the pensioner contributed to pension insurance. AHD is the current pension value. It is determined by the social insurance undertaking and determines the amount of the pension. For 2019 it is set at EUR 12.6657. And POMBAL, that P-O-M-B-A-L, that shortcut, means the average personality point. This is the share of the sum of wage points calculated per calendar year, the relevant period and the number of years of the pension period. There. Now let's compare the Slovak pension system with the pension system in the Czech Republic. Again, I'm warning you that this work is not current data, this bachelor's work, but it's a few years older data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u97	Mr President, I am sorry, but again I will lead you to comply with the Rules of Procedure, in particular Section 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, and he spoke to the point, because the comparison of pension systems really has nothing to do with the fact that we are dealing with an assessment of the terms and conditions for discussing this press in a short hearing. So please get back to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u98	I think he's dealing with it because the problem is... But okay, I'll move it. I'm not going to argue with you here because I'm a gentleman to women, and I don't want to argue with you here. So I just want to say that it's because your government is unclear, so I'm going to revisit the context, it's not clear that it's not possible for you to rob 3 million pensioners of the promised valorisation, of the pensions by your law that you're proposing here. I just don't agree with it. That's why, in my interpretation, I've been trying to explain to you for the last few days that the pension system can be set up so that you don't rob those pensioners of the money. And I've already made that international comparison here in my first speech on Tuesday. What's interesting is that I didn't get caught up in the conversation. So in the House's leadership, like, you as president, you should clear up a little bit so it's the same meter. Well, I don't know if you guys are talking about it any other way, because I'm here on the first day of Tuesday, and that's the problem, I have to say really, Madam President, that's the problem, because on Tuesday I said a comparison with the pension systems with Germany... I know it must have been hard for you to listen to this because in Germany seniors are entitled to 70 per cent on average, pension is 70 per cent of their salary, i.e. very high pensions, I was comparing it to Slovakia, Madam President, so now I don't know why you're jumping into my conversation now that I was talking about Slovakia on Tuesday, France I said, Great Britain and Sweden. And now you don't mind Slovakia, and Tuesday you didn't mind. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u99	I wasn't running a meeting at the time. I'm not speaking for my colleagues. But I am leading you to the point and I am saying a specific paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u100	Yeah, but you're the head of the House, so how do you run it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u101	Rules of Procedure - Art. 59, par. 4. You're supposed to get to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u102	Yeah, I know that, and I'm convinced I'm speaking to the point. I know that paragraph, which is why I repeat here repeatedly that I am speaking to the point, but it would be good if you could arrange it, or you could manage it a little bit there, in the House's leadership. I'm not there. You pushed me out of there as a representative of the SPD, so that's why I'm telling you, I'm not part of it, so you should manage it a little bit, because how come you have double standards?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u103	In other words, you just said that you're repeating the same thing you mentioned earlier, so you're giving weight to the fact that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u104	No, no, no. That's where I was talking about another thing. You said yourself you weren't here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u105	But you're not talking to what we're dealing with right now, so I'm leading you to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u106	So the subject is pensions, you want to rob 3 million old people. So I've been talking about pensions all along. Yesterday, the chairman of the other opposition party wasn't talking about pensions, and he also had room. He didn't talk about pensions in much of his speech. He was talking about sexual harassment, or whatever it was, like I heard in the machine guns. Something about sex, Mr. Babiš speaking anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u107	Anyway, it was on the agenda. You're now expressing yourself on the part -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u108	Wait! The agenda for meetings is pensions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u109	- which is an assessment of the conditions for discussing this press in a short hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u110	So let's stop arguing. I'd like to get to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u111	That's right. Please continue your speech, but to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u112	Yes, but just don't tell it your way! Don't tell it your way, because I just don't think you're right. Okay, well, I'm gonna move on to page 44 to the end. So to the conclusion of this passage, just to be clear. [[13.30 hours]] So here basically the author of the Bachelor's thesis describes and evaluates the issue of the current pension system. That's where we agree it's pointless, isn't it? He first described the development of the social security law, which is part of the pension system. The concept of social security was preceded by poor care. The theory of the welfare state that William Beveridge formulated in the first half of the twentieth century is important for the development of social security law. The first chapter concludes with social security law at international level, especially at EU level, which has a considerable impact on our legal order. The second part was devoted to the pension system. Here are described the pillars of the pension system, which are enshrined in the current legal order. This is pension insurance and pension savings with a state contribution. I've just looked into who's running the meeting, whether there's an enemy MP, or whether there's an MP on the same side that we don't want people stealing from pensions. So I hope I finally get to the point. So, then, I was talking about the issue of calculating the amount of pensions. It's very complicated at the moment. To understand it, the theoretical basics of concepts are needed, which I have also explained. These are concepts such as retirement age and the required period of insurance. The third part of the bachelor's thesis included a pension award process, first an old age, then an invalid. Retirement is granted by the Czech Social Security Administration. The insured person lodges an application with the district social security administration with the necessary documentation and subsequently is granted a pension. In the event that he is not granted a pension, he shall have the opportunity to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court by means of an appeal. This right confers on the applicant an administrative right. The last part of the work is described by the Slovak pension system according to current legislation. There was a major reform of the pension system there in Slovakia in 2005. Since then, the Slovak pension system has been built on three pillars. Slovak insured persons thus have more opportunities in the pension system than in the Czech Republic. In the second half of the last part, it compares both systems. Here I was very interested in the result of a reduction in the average monthly income after the insured person became a pensioner. After getting acquainted with the issue, the author is still making some conclusions here, and the conclusion is that pension reform is necessary. Then, of course, we agree. Pension reform is necessary, but we certainly differ in these methods. The author here rightly says that pension reform must be perfectly prepared so that it does not end in a fiasco as in 2013, the author writes here. So we agree with this conclusion because it was the government of ODS and TOP 09 and the student himself here sees that it was a fiasco. Yes, it was. It was a fiasco. So I think that here some conclusions can definitely be accepted, especially that the ODS government, TOP 09 was a fiasco and it's a fiasco even today, so it's like recycling and it's a really big problem. Let's move on. Now let's look at another passage on pensions so I can explain it to you properly. The point is, let's look at public law. Public law also includes social security law. In the area of social security, there are some general principles that are defined, which I would like to describe both from the point of view of Czech and European law. It is necessary to look at the historical development of pensions in the Czech Republic. Among other things, almost a third of Czech citizens receive a pension. So that's why this is a very serious topic and I took to hand here the Bachelor's thesis of Žaneta Górecká at the Bank Institute of the University of Prague, Department of Law and Public Administration, April 2011, because I think that the government coalition should listen to how pension insurance works in the Czech Republic and what is the pension insurance system in the Czech Republic, because you here decided to rob 3 million pensioners of the promised money for valorisation. The SPD doesn't agree with that. And it's obvious-- and yet here you want to shorten the terms of the hearing, you want a short hearing here, and I'm trying to explain to you here that there's no way in hell that short hearing is appropriate, and what's in place with the SPD, the rejection of your law and rejection. And again, I would like to challenge you to withdraw the law. I would like to call on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to withdraw this bill, Petr Fiala from ODS, because it is not possible to rob a pensioner of the promised valorisation at a time of high inflation caused by your government, especially when food, energy and other items needed to live in this way due to your government. So what's going on with pension insurance in the Czech Republic? It is part of the social security system and has undergone many changes since the 1990s until now. Pension insurance is based on the principle of ongoing financing, which is highly sensitive to demographic developments. In recent years, the birth rate has fallen, the number of residents in retirement age has increased, and the number of early old-age pensioners continues to increase. This leads the pension scheme to a deficit. Yeah, well, we're not saying there's no deficit. But we say that there is a need to cut the unnecessary expenses that the Fialův government is throwing out, and to regroup them to our citizens. But that's not what the Fialův government is doing, and it simply wants to rob our retired people of their money. There's a fundamental difference in the SPD view. We say there is a need to raise pensions, and here you are promoting a reduction in pension valorisation. Well, of course I do. In recent years, it is the pension systems that have had to respond to these changes. Pension reform is essential. I've been saying that all along, but both Babišův's government and the current Fialův government have done nothing about it. So let's take a look at the organization and implementation of social security in the Czech Republic. The definition of social security is very difficult and this concept has seen long-term developments. All citizens of the Czech Republic have the right to social security under constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll. and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The State provides individual social security benefits. These benefits are not subject to taxes. An exception is only a pension of over 24,000 per month. Social security is also a set of institutions, measures and facilities through which social events are preceded, mitigated and eliminated. For the first time, the content of social security was defined by Convention No 102/1952, adopted by the International Labour Conference. It is then followed by other conventions and charters, including documents from the Council of Europe and the European Union. According to international social security documents, it provides assistance to people in the event of social events, unemployment, illness, accidents at work and occupational diseases, health damage and disability, old age, parenthood, maternity, death of the breadwinner. [[13.40 hours]] If such a social event occurs, there are instruments that guarantee at least minimum security in a certain way. These instruments are: social provision or support, social insurance, social services, social assistance. Public law also includes social security law. In the field of social security, some general principles apply. Very important are: the principle of equality, which will provide us with all legitimate entities according to the same uniform rules, the principle of complexity. A suitable combination of benefits should cover all social security systems. The principle of proportionality. The amount of benefits should be proportionate to the social needs and individual action of individual persons. The principle of social solidarity. The coherence of some groups of people with others, where citizens with higher incomes contribute to unsecured citizens with lower incomes. Working citizens are the resources from which benefits are used for people who do not participate financially in this. Solidarity must be between the rich and the poor, the old and the young, the healthy and the sick, and so on. The principle of universality. This principle means that benefits are granted by the State. It concerns all persons living in the Czech Republic and guarantees them a certain level of basic benefits, provided that the conditions laid down by law for the creation of a social event are met. The principle of guarantee. All citizens must be guaranteed legal entitlement to benefits. The state is the legal and economic guarantor in the system and its financing. The principle of participation. Participation of citizens in the social security system in dealing with their own social events and responsibility for the level of their living conditions. The problem of every society is the security of citizens in adverse social situations caused by social events, such as accidents, illness, disability, maternity, old age and loss of provider. The content of social security is the solution to this challenging task. The level and form of solutions to social problems in society sets out the economic possibility and the economic necessity to solve these problems. Other factors are, for example, the demographic structure of the population, moral and ethical opinions and, above all, citizens' interest in addressing their needs, i.e. overall consensus in the society. Social security in the EU. The European Union is using Community law. In this law, the harmonisation of social security legislation by Member States is not enshrined, but their cooperation in the social field is regulated here. This is therefore an effective coordination and convergence - adapting social security systems to EU Member States. In Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). Regulation (EC) No 1408/71/EEC contains four principles that are essential in the field of social security: equality of treatment, the application of the rule of law of a single State, the maintenance of entitlement, the addition of periods of insurance. The rules of this Regulation shall apply to all legislation governing benefits in the event of invalidity, sickness and maternity benefits, survivors' benefits, old age benefits, unemployment benefits, funeral benefits, occupational accidents and sickness benefits, family benefits. The European Social Security Code, adopted by the Council of Europe in 1964 and referred to as the European Social Code, is important from the point of view of EU law. For the Czech Republic entered into force 9 September 2001. European social security law began to apply to the Czech Republic as of 1. 5 2004. The right of citizens to free movement is one of the fundamental principles of the EU. For social security, this implies the obligation of Member States to treat migrant citizens of EU countries so as not to restrict their ability to work within this area. The most important legislation in this area is the so-called coordination regulations, i.e. regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council No. Council Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council 987/2009, which from 1. 5. 2007 is replaced by Regulation No 2007 of the Council of the European Economic Community. Regulation (EC) No 1408/71 and Regulation (EC) No 1408/71 of the Council of the European Economic Community 574/72. These Regulations are fundamental, directly binding and above the national legislation laid down by Community rules coordinating social security systems of all Member States. Authorities pay benefits in kind, this is pension or sickness insurance Czech Social Security Administration, unemployment benefits Labour offices and social benefits locally competent employment offices. One of the most important social security benefits is an old-age pension. At the pensioner's request, the pension shall be paid to the EU Member State designated. When deciding on pension rights in the event that the person has obtained periods of insurance in the Czech Republic and in one of the contracting states, the pension entitlement is assessed not only under Czech national regulations but also under the international social security agreement concluded by the Czech Republic with the relevant state. The very existence of entitlement to this pension for persons who have ceased to work in one country and have continued to operate in another country applies to the principle that, in each country where such person has been insured, his insurance records are kept until retirement age is reached. The premiums paid shall not be paid or transferred to another country at the end of the insurance. Retirement payments shall be made to a person living abroad after prior transmission of the form "Acknowledgment of living entitled'. This form is available on the website of the Czech Social Security Administration under sections of EU forms, which is available in Czech, English, German and French versions. This form must be signed by the pensioner himself and must be officially certified by the authority empowered to do so in accordance with the rules of the State in which the pensioner lives. Pensions are paid four times a year to an address abroad, in March, June, September and December, always back for a quarter. Payment for an account abroad is made in the currency of the State or in other freely convertible currency cash-free via the Czech National Bank and the relevant correspondent bank abroad. For interest, the author of this bachelor's thesis states that the Czech Social Security Administration paid a total of 56 866 pensions to 72 countries worldwide on 30 June 2010. That's interesting information. Most pensions abroad are paid to Slovakia, 16 304, then to Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany. The list of countries where the Czech Social Security Administration sends pensions includes exotic countries such as Rwanda, Mali, Paraguay, Costa Rica, Iceland, Philippines, Thailand and others. The Czech Social Security Administration pays all kinds of pensions abroad. At the end of 2010 this payment of pensions abroad claimed total expenditure of CZK 1,248 billion. If it is not an EU Member State, it is important for any pension payment whether the Czech Republic has an international social security agreement with the country concerned. The fundamental purpose of these treaties is to ensure the rights of persons who move between the two Contracting States. [[13.50 hours]] Now let's take a look at the historical development of the pension system. In a first-rate society, tribal communities took care of their sick and elderly companions by leaving them in their community in a narrower or wider family. In a slave company, the slave had no rights and was the property of his master. In the final period of the slave society, the free population began to form associations for support in sickness and death. In the Middle Ages, first self-help support groups were established, whose task was to help work to incompetent and old members, and support for surviving family members as well. Supporting associations were formed in the 15th century initially among miners. A mining fraternity was formed, which established supporting cash registers. The first record of the mining support register dates back to 1527 for Emperor Ferdinand I. In 1854 the compulsory establishment of brother's treasury in the mines took place and this was already the basis for the mining social insurance itself, which existed in Czechoslovakia until 1948. Government reform took place during the reign of Marie Terezie in the Austrian monarchy in the second half of the 18th century. Part of the reform was the construction of a lay state apparatus that replaced the nobility in the administration of the state. Public and civil servants were dependent on their salaries, they had to be entitled to a pension. For this reason, two pension standards were issued. The first was in 1771 for widows and orphans after employees, the second in 1781 for employees who, after ten years of satisfying service, became incompetent. Pension standards formed the basis of social security. The influx of rural population into cities and the development of industrial production took place after the abolition of servitude in 1781. In this context, Federal sickness funds were established on the territory of Austria-Hungary under the laws of 1852 and 1867 which were intended to serve in particular to provide workers in the event of illness. In 1883 compulsory sickness insurance was enacted in Germany. Accident insurance in 1884 and old-age disability insurance in 1889. These laws are referred to as Bismarckův's reform and have laid the basis for Bismarckův's model of social security. Compulsory social insurance was also introduced in Austria-Hungary. Because at that time Count Taaffe was Prime Minister, these laws are referred to as the Taaffe Reform. This is the Workers' Accident Insurance Act of 1888 and the Workers' Health Insurance Act of 1889. That same year, the law on brother's cashiers was adopted. New legislation has been adopted gradually. The most important of these legislation was Law No. 221/1924 Coll., on Insurance of Employees for Disease, Disability and Old Age. The adoption of this law also strengthened democratic development in Czechoslovakia. Other laws included Law No. 221/1925 Coll., on sickness insurance for public employees. An important milestone in the development of social lawmaking in Czechoslovakia was the adoption of Act No. 99/1948 Coll., on National Insurance. The first social security reform was carried out in 1956. Law No. 54/1956 Coll., on sickness insurance, and also Act No. 55/1956 Coll., on Social Security. The second social security reform was in 1964. Law No. 101/1966 Coll., on Social Security, and Act No. 103/1964 Coll., on social security of cooperative peasants. Law No. 100/1988 Coll., on social security, part of which is still valid. In November 1989, a fundamental reform in the social security system was needed. The preferences, personal pensions and discrimination against self-employed persons have been abolished. There has been a transfer of sickness insurance from the administration of trade unions and its unification with pension insurance within the Czech Social Security Administration. During the social reform in the Czech Republic there were three basic stages. The first stage was from the end of 1989 to the end of 1992. The concept of a social safety net has been developed fully secured by legal institutes, in particular by a minimum wage and living minimum. The second stage started in 1993 after the creation of a separate Czech Republic. Introduced social security premiums as a special payment outside the tax system. In 1995, the adoption of two important laws, Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, and Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support. The beginning of the third stage - from mid-1998 so far. Amendment of legislation, preparation of reform of the pension system. What are the social security authorities? Social security in the Czech Republic is carried out by social security authorities, organizations, municipal authorities and trade offices. The public administration as part of the company is made up of a system of institutions. The issue is regulated by Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended. The State authorities form its basis but belong to the authorities of the self-government and, where appropriate, to the public corporation to which the State entrusted certain functions. Public administration in a material sense is a summary of all administrative activities related to governance at central and local level and to the provision of public services. The public administration in a formal sense shall be the activities of the organisational units and persons, either the administrative authorities as direct public authorities, or an official person performing administrative tasks, or an establishment in the capacity of indirect public authorities. According to the Constitution, the Czech Republic is a parliamentary democracy. The Title of the Third Constitution talks about executive power, the President of the Republic, the Government, ministries and other administrative offices and the prosecutor's office. The executive powers shall also be affected by the provisions on the authorities of the local authority. In the Czech Republic there are executors of the state administration of the Ministry - central administrative authorities. These ministries are fifteen - that was, used to be, under the current government there are more ministers - and the pension insurance area is provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This Ministry is subordinate to the Czech Social Security Administration as a national administrative office. So let's go see the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs manages and controls the performance of state administration, social security, manages the Czech Social Security Administration, ensures the tasks arising from international social security contracts, and tasks related to further development of social security. It shall assess the state of health and the working capacity of citizens for the purposes of the review procedure, the judicial and appeal proceedings of the administration in matters relating to pension insurance. It sets up a review committee as its bodies. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs may remove the hardness that would occur in the implementation of social security and may also entrust social security management to eliminate hardness in individual cases. Czech Social Security Administration is the largest and completely exceptional financial administration of the state administration of the Czech Republic. Nearly 8 million insured people manage matters, of which more than 2 million are 800 thousand pensioners. It pays over 3,418,000 pensions. So you see how many people the Fialův government wants to rob into pensions. 3.5 million people in the Czech Republic! 3.5 million people want to reduce the promised valorization, and that is, of course, an unacceptable issue for the SPD, which is why we are also here fighting for the 3.5 million pension recipients. We're on their side while the government tossed them overboard. [[14.00 hours]] The Czech Social Security Administration contributes more than 35 percent to the state budget. This is money that is regularly collected for social security premiums and contributions to state employment policy. In addition to pension insurance, the Czech Social Security Administration is responsible for sickness insurance and medical assessment services. It also performs tasks arising from interstate social security conventions and, under EU coordination regulations, is a liaison body towards foreign institutions for cash benefits in sickness and maternity. Pensions and cash benefits in the case of accidents at work and occupational diseases. Czech Social Security Administration is a separate budget organisation subordinate to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It was established with effect from 1 September 1990 by the Czech National Council Act No. 210/1990 Coll., on changes in the powers of the authorities of the Czech Republic and on amendment of Act No. 20/1996 Coll., on the care of the health of the people, which was amended by the law of the Czech National Council No. 114/1988 Coll., on the competence of the authorities of the Czech Republic in social security. Czech Social Security Administration is an administrative office with national competence subordinate to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Czech Social Security Administration is in accordance with § 3 of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, the organizational component of the state. It is therefore not a separate legal person. However, this is without prejudice to its scope under specific legislation, in particular in the field of social security, and its conduct in these cases is the conduct of the State. The Czech Social Security Administration was really founded by the merger of the Pension Insurance Office in Prague, the Czech Health Insurance Administration and the Insurance Administration of the Association of Czech and Moravian Production Cooperatives. The creed of the Czech Social Security Administration is to be a modern, client-oriented institution that fully exploits the most modern information and communication technologies. The Czech Social Security Administration defines this in its mission. I quote: "The Czech Social Security Administration is a modern office, a social security provider that effectively works in a way that corresponds to the modern technology of the third millennium information society and is inspired by an exclusive focus on creating maximum value for the client and thus achieving the highest possible fulfillment in his expectations and the maximum extent of his satisfaction." The Czech Social Security Administration is an institution of the state administration and is responsible for social security, pension and sickness insurance and medical assessment services. The scope of the Czech Social Security Administration is regulated by Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended. According to the provisions of this Act, the Czech Social Security Administration performs the following tasks: decide on the obligation of the citizen to repay the pension insurance benefit granted unjustly or incorrectly if he is entitled to decide on that benefit, decide on pension insurance benefits, unless it is provided in that law that they are decided upon by another social security authority, and arranges for the payment of such benefits, collect social security contributions and contribution to the state employment policy under the special law, is acting before a court in proceedings for the examination of a decision on social security matters. perform tasks in the payment of social security benefits abroad, manage and control the activities of district social security administrations, agrees to change the residence of an unfit citizen on his departure abroad, ensures the issue of forms prescribed under the law, decide on the organisation's obligation to replace the amounts wrongly paid in respect of the pension benefit, where the benefit is entitled to be decided on, decide on appeals in cases where the district administration of social security has decided at first instance, decide on the removal of the hardness that would occur in the implementation of social security if it has been entrusted to it on a case-by-case basis. In order to ensure efficient operation, the Czech Social Security Administration also carries out other important activities in addition to the statutory tasks: is responsible for conducting the classic automated data records required for decision-making in matters relating to pension insurance, sickness insurance and medical assessment services, be responsible for the creation and development of an automated and information system and implement rationalization measures in the field of social security; is responsible for the management of the trust - buildings, equipment, computing and so on, is responsible for the effective implementation of the social security appropriations, prepares draft plans and budgets to ensure the operation of the Czech Social Security Administration. In the above mentioned areas, the Czech Social Security Administration cooperates in particular with: social security authorities of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, mutual transfer of underlying materials and payment of certain pensions, State enterprise Česká pošta, which provides most cash payments of pensions, health care establishments when assessing the state of health and ensuring the payment of pensions to such establishments, social care institutions in ensuring the payment of pensions to such establishments, natural and legal persons carrying out social security tasks and medical assessment services, The Ministry of Health for Medical Assessment Services, the General Health Insurance Corporation for Medical Assessment Services, data on termination of entitlement to certain types of pensions, and other health insurance companies, The Ministry of Finance in budgetary matters, setting up new accounts, money institutions - payment of pensions to accounts, especially with the Czech National Bank, which keeps the accounts of the headquarters of the Czech Social Security Administration and district social security administrations. The Czech Social Security Administration cooperates within the framework of the legislative process and preparation of the social security concept with members of the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and other central authorities of the state administration. The structure of the Czech Social Security Administration consists of the headquarters of the Czech Social Security Administration, the workplace of the Czech Social Security Administration, the district social security administration, the Prague Social Security Administration and the Municipal Social Security Administration Brno and their local offices. These organizational units and services of the Czech Social Security Administration have their directors, local offices of the Prague Social Security Administration and the Municipal Social Security Administration Brno their leaders. Now let's take a short look at the county social security administration. Territorial organizational units of the Czech Social Security Administration are district social security administration - OSSZ, which participate in defined areas in the implementation of social insurance within the scope of Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended. The Director of the District Administration of Social Security is appointed and recalled by the Central Director of the Czech Social Security Administration. Circumstantial social security management provides information service for clients. The organisational structure of the district social security administrations shall consist of: The Department of Insurance Selection within the territorial scope of the relevant OSSS coordinates and regulates the implementation of social insurance, in particular monitors compliance with the payment obligations of compulsory social security entities and issues a statement of default to organisations and small organisations. It prepares the documents for the decision to authorise the payment of insurance premiums and periodic penalty payments. It carries out their accounting and monitoring of the correctness of payments, accounts for the rules and payments of all enforceable titles, accounts for the monthly and annual accounts of the income account of the insurance and benefits of the expense account, ensures the reimbursement of the overpayment on individual payers, ensures payment of sickness insurance benefits and ensures the reimbursement of the overpayment on sickness benefit. The department also decides on the recovery and legal provision of claims, on the waiver of periodic penalty payments, on the authorisation of payment of premiums and periodic penalty payments. It also deals with insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings. The Social Insurance Department shall coordinate and manage the implementation of social insurance within the official scope of the relevant OSSS. It shall provide professional assistance to citizens and to pension organisations and to all entities within its competence in matters with an international element. It shall draw up and document applications for benefits and, where appropriate, the correction of pension insurance benefits. It deals with citizens' questions regarding general information on benefits under the Czech Social Security Administration and provides information on the application of EC social security law and international agreements of the European Community and international social security agreements. [[14.10 hours]] It decides on benefits and non-benefital sickness insurance matters, prepares supporting documents for the payment of sickness insurance benefits, processes activities related to the creation, duration and termination of the insurance ratio of individual sickness insurance bodies, decides on the entitlement to sickness insurance benefits with an international element, carries out work activities in the field of employment records incompetent on the basis of medical opinion and issues relevant decisions, carries out activities in the field of insurance premiums or sickness insurance. The Department of Internal Administration prepares and presents requirements for the purchase of office materials, for the purchase of small assets and for the execution of services, confirms that the ordered services were carried out in the required scope and quality. It prepares the data necessary to ensure the performance of the personnel and payroll agenda of OSSS staff, provides supporting documents for the settlement with employees - meal vouchers, telephone calls, damages - and billing of business trips. It transmits the data necessary for changes in the register of all tangible assets and its inventory, transfer and removal from the register, prepares and transmits the data necessary for budget planning and preparation of economic analyses. The Department of Control within the territorial scope of the relevant district social security administration coordinates and regulates the implementation of social insurance, in particular controls the creation and termination of insurance relationship to the tasks of a small organisation and organisation in the implementation of sickness insurance, the management of relevant records and social insurance documentation and the fulfilment of the obligations of social insurance entities imposed by the relevant legislation. Now, for a short time, the Department of Defense. He drives, controls and carries out occupational retirement insurance. The Department of Justice manages, controls and carries out pension insurance for members of the Prison Service. The Ministry of the Interior manages, controls and carries out pension insurance for members of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Fire Rescue Corps and members of other armed security forces and security services. The municipal authorities decide on the provisions of the special beneficiary of the pension benefit and check whether the special beneficiary fulfils the obligations laid down. And the trade authorities accept from self-employed persons engaged in self-employment on the basis of an authorisation under the trade law of the application to participate in pension insurance. That was basically a performance I'm trying to explain to you that there aren't really terms for shortening negotiations. I wanted to make it clear here that the pension issue is obviously complicated, but I have been fighting for the 3.5 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic on the third day. And I repeat again, and I think the public already knows that the ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates, you want to rob 3.5 million pension recipients of the promised valorization, you want to cut the valorization by approximately CZK 1,000 a month from June. This year you want to take on average 7,000 pensions, 12,000 next year, but there will be even more, because the valorization possible will count on the lower base, so you really want to take the money away from all the pensioners in the tens of thousands of crowns. I have explained quite extensively here that the pension system in the Czech Republic is funded, if the Fialův government does not interpret, it has stopped throwing money away for the necessary expenses. It would be unfinanceable without a problem if you moved the money to proper and decent citizens and didn't waste money on all sorts of stupidities, which I was talking about here, which brings nothing to decent citizens. And we're gonna keep fighting for this here in the House, and our fight isn't over yet. There are only 20 Members against 108 members of the government coalition, it is a huge government outnumber, but we in the SPD are fighting our best to prevent the adoption of this law, which you want to rob 3.5 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic, still at present. Of course, I am not quitting my performances, and I will look into the pension system in the Czech Republic in more detail in my next speech, because it is obvious that the Fialův Government does not know which beats, and you simply went ahead with it by robbing 3.5 million pensioners in the Czech Republic of their pensions, but I will keep that until further performances at the next stage, because, of course, there is still a general debate waiting for us, we are still going to have a detailed debate. Again, I would like to reiterate that the members of the SPD have tabled 102 amendments, 102 amendments that we still want to justify. I hope the government coalition can justify that. We insist that this be properly justified both in the general and in the detailed debate, because that is the right of each Member to submit an amendment and to justify it. After all, it is also in the Rules of Procedure. So I think I've given a fairly detailed explanation here for the reasons why the SPD simply doesn't agree with this law you're presenting here, fundamentally disagrees with reducing people's promised pension valorization. And I am not finished yet, and I will, of course, continue to fight for all decent citizens in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u113	Thank you. Before I give the floor to another, which is registered with priority law, which is President Excellent, I will still read two apologies, and this is Minister Balaš for the whole day without giving any reason, and also Minister Rakušan from 15.15 to 20.00 for working reasons. We continue and with priority right is signed by President Marek Výborný. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, because the debate on the point of confirming the conditions for the discussion of the House press 392 in a brief hearing is once again coming to our attention, and the reasons that are mostly mentioned here are repeated, we have actually attended this debate in about 28 hours yesterday's day, so I will then allow myself to make a proposal here, which I beg you to vote on immediately afterwards. However, in order to avoid the misunderstandings that may have arisen here yesterday, and to ensure that the opposition Members also know on the basis of what I propose as chairman of one of the five coalition clubs, I will allow myself, because I now have no factual point, which was yesterday, but I am duly entered in the debate with priority right, to complete some parts of the Constitutional Court ruling. I'm gonna go back to finding it under file number 55/10. I quote literally: "Too much and a wide range of guarantees for individual rights of the parliamentary opposition can lead to their frequent abuse and abuse by the opposition, which may result in weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. It is therefore necessary for individual rights and authorisations guaranteed by the parliamentary opposition to also correspond to certain obligations and responsibilities for their exercise." I continue: 'The parliamentary opposition is obliged not only to fulfil the role of the so-called responsible and constructive opposition, although it is rather a moral appeal that depends on the overall level of political culture prevailing in society', I think - and now it is my words: to tesat in stone and hang here before us, before all - I continue: '... although it is a moral appeal that depends on the overall level of political culture prevailing in society, the necessary condition for proper and effective performance of the functions of the parliamentary opposition is precisely that it is carried out in a constructive and responsible manner which corresponds to the legitimate functions of the opposition as a genuine alternative to the majority, or corresponds to the functions of supervision and control of the activities of the ruling majority. This requirement is, among other things, an expression of the principle of government at a time when both the current ruling majority and the minority should bear in mind that they do not belong to one or the other group forever, and the current ruling majority can soon become, soon become a parliamentary minority and vice versa. Therefore, such decisions should not be taken which would in fact prevent the exercise of the rights guaranteed by one or the other group.' And last, this will be a nice quote from the Constitutional Court's finding of the 1/12 file mark, where it is said, among other things: "The announcement of the parliamentary debate is to allow the confrontation of views across the political spectrum, whether it is a conflict of the parliamentary majority with the opposition, or individual factions, or only the currents of opinion, and not in the unlimited implementation of the right of each individual Member or senator to comment on it. [[14.20 hours]] This right may be reduced in a proportionate manner by the Rules of Procedure in order to rationalise the course of the parliamentary debate, which will allow the examination of the draft law within a reasonable timeframe for leaving room for expression to all interested parties in the abovementioned sense.' Therefore, not so much my words, but the citation of the Constitutional Court's finding, in order to make it clear that, on the basis of what I have said, we are quite justified to make a motion at this time, so that, according to resolution 248 of the Chamber of Deputies of 26 February 1997, Article 1, which says: The Chamber of Deputies, it can be concluded that there will be no vote at some time, and the vote on the proposals submitted will take place at a specified time. I would like to make a nice suggestion that the assessment of the terms and conditions for the discussion of the House's press, 392, should take place today at 15.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u115	Thank you. I'm just gonna do it again. That is, you propose that the vote take place, Mr President, at 15.30. Isn't that right? 15.30, that means, at this point, please counterproposals if anyone gives counterproposals. [[Noise in the hall.]] First, President Schillerová, sorry, before that was President Okamura, then she was President Schillerová. [[MP Okamura off the microphone: That's right.]] And please counterproposals, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u116	I would put counter-propose that confirmation of the terms and conditions for discussing this press in shortening the negotiations by Sunday at 20:00, which, of course, is a legitimate proposal, and most importantly, I did, but in that context... this is not possible, because what the President of the club said here Výborný, he also widely justified his proposal here, but you have completely neglected the situation here, and it is serious that since Tuesday there is a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and there are Members who have not had a chance to express themselves yet. [[Calling Members from the diaper.]] But this is a problem!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u117	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u118	No, wait, but you were counterproposaling, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u119	I'll take the counterproposal. I wrote it down. Prime Minister... [[Mr Okamura: You made a proposal.]] Mr President, be it fair, there was a proposal, now there is a counterproposal, I understand that, at 20.30...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u120	I have more counterproposals, okay? [[- Yes. I understand.]] Don't interrupt, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u121	Let's go, there's another sign-in with counterproposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u122	Well, no... [[He's turning to the President.]] I have more of them myself. So I'd like to... Or should I give, may I give just one counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u123	There must be one counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u124	Well, okay. Well, I'll give Sunday 8:00, but again, I say... [[President: 20.00. I understand, thank you.]] There's a problem, you argued here with a constitutional finding, but the fact that.....64 MPs couldn't possibly... [[President: Mr President, thank you.]] [[President: Mr President. Prime Minister!]] ... at all to comment on this press! [[President: Mr President, please!]] That's the problem! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u125	Thank you and please remain calm. I understand the atmosphere is more tense. Sunday, 8:00. I'll ask President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since we are the constructive opposition, the YES movement, I see 64 registered there, they still want to step out of this from the two of us, at least two or three priority rights, so I'm trying to be as constructive as possible. Then there will be a debate about the law. Mr. President Excellent has read us the justification here. I can read completely different justifications from the same passages of the same Constitutional Court finding, I will not stretch it out. I propose, as Deputy Chairman of the club, that the constructive opposition of the ANO movement be extended until 8.00 tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u127	Thank you, by 8:00 in the morning. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Tomorrow, Friday 8:00. Yes, again, sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u128	Yes, thank you for the heads-up. You are right to vote on the assessment of the terms and conditions for the discussion of the House of Press 392 in the shortened negotiations tomorrow at 8.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u129	Yes, thank you. Now the lady... ladies and then Mr. Nacher. I'll take it the way they checked in, the next one, the lady in this case comes first, too. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u130	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would also like to put forward a counter-proposal to vote on Friday 3. 3:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u131	19.30, yes. Thank you. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will also make a counterproposal to vote on Sunday at 4:00 in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u133	Sunday 4:00. Mr. Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll justify it. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I will tell you, and I am curious to see how coalition MPs stand up to it. [[- Please, calm down. Yes?]] Can I have the club president, please? . [[Turns right into the diaper]] I'm suggesting it's 8:00 tonight. I'll tell you how I got there. There's 64 logged in. You've only limited it to two or five minutes. I'm being helpful, so it'll only be once five minutes, that's 320 minutes. That's five hours twenty. There are two priority rights. If they talk for ten minutes, it's five hours forty minutes. I say guess. This means being friendly alone, so that even those who are properly logged in will actually get it. And it's the second time you've cut it, today at 8:00. And there is some probability that a significant part of the 64 Members, if they are willing to be with each other, will get there. I wonder if you will vote against this proposal, because this is not obstructive, it is calculated so that at 8 o'clock the vote will be voted, it is helpful, but at the same time it has been made possible to speak to the ordinary Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u135	Understood, Mr. Ambassador. Today, 8:00. Mr. Mr. Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u136	Thank you. I'm not as helpful as my colleague Nacher, because I think everything we have to say should be heard. I therefore propose that my counterproposal be voted on Saturday at 9 o'clock so that we have enough room for the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u137	Thank you. Lady first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u138	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of counter-proposaling, too. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I think it would be fair for everyone to... [[- I'm asking for peace!]] ... MEPs had the opportunity to express, even in that shortened period, but during the whole period, including the priority rights, and I have it coming to tomorrow at 20.00. [[President: Friday 20.00.]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u139	Thank you. Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u140	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my colleague Patrik's smart proposal. I'm logged in, too. Patrik counted five minutes each. I will be so helpful as to shorten my speech to three minutes, which is why today I propose 19.58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u141	Today, 19.58. Mr. Mr. Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have exactly the same logic. We all want to comment on this, and I think it would be fair for the 64 people who have something to say about it to have a chance to express themselves. I'm not gonna speak for them if they get shorter or not, that's their conscience. Your conscience is whether you let us talk or not. And so I propose to vote on this today at 23.55.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u143	23.55, thank you. [[Rush in the hall.]] I ask everyone to comment very briefly. Mrs Fischerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think we can do this by 9:56 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u145	21.56 tomorrow. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u146	Thank you for the floor. I'll make a very brief statement. I joined the debate twice yesterday, and today I also have two applications, and I don't think that if this goes any further, there's gonna be a single application. So I'm counter-proposaling that we would vote today at 10:00. [[President: Today 22.00.]] 22.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u147	Yes, thank you. Mr. Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u148	Thank you for the floor. I think it's still true that this House's day is from 9:00 to 9:00. Of course, in Section 99 we are not bound to do so. But there are some rules here anyway, there were some lunch breaks, at least some basic humane rules have been followed in the past. So, first of all, that's one of my motives. My second motive is to imagine that we're going to vote at 6:30, and we're going to have this point, on the table, to debate over the night after 6:30. Do you really think that's dignified? For this reason, I think the House's time is really at 9 o'clock. I'll suggest tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. to vote on it, and then we'll focus on second and third readings. Then it'll take some time off, maybe people will get some sleep. What's wrong with that? I think the coalition is really going too far now, that it's really a favor from the coalition. Please, let's get this thing back on its feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u149	I understand. Tomorrow at 9:00. And please, let us always make a very brief statement of the counterproposal. I'll have Mrs. Dražilová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u150	I believe, as my colleague Patrik Nacher, that it should still be today, but I believe that priority rights should be able to vote longer, so I propose today at 23.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u151	23.00 today, yes. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u152	Thank you. I'm giving the counterproposal to vote tomorrow at 7:00 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u153	Tomorrow at 7:00, thank you. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u154	Thank you for the floor. I'll justify my counterproposal. Since yesterday I didn't come up with my two applications, and today, if the government majority votes for what has been proposed here, there will be exactly the same situation, so I would like to make a counter-proposal - by tomorrow's 9.35 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u155	9:35 tomorrow. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u156	Hello again. I think that the attempts to silence the opposition have been enough here and that we are talking about a serious problem that deserves to be discussed and that there should be no vote on it until tomorrow at 11.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u157	11.45. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I have stood up honestly to the front, and I dare also put forward a counterproposal. Given the number of applicants, given that these people were unable to speak on that last point, and also given the priority rights, I propose that we vote on this point tomorrow, Friday 3 March at 10.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u159	10:00 tomorrow. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u160	Thank you for the floor. I'm counter-proposaling. When I look at it, we have 64 logged in, they've been voted here twice five minutes, that's about some 640 minutes, priority rights are logged in. I think it's fair to vote on it tomorrow at 9.33. We sleep quietly, everyone says it here, and it's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u161	9.33, I'm marked. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u162	Thank you. I think it is very important that every Member can really express himself. And according to my calculations, which may be different from my colleagues, I suggest that the vote take place today at 23.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u163	23.30 today. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I had a speech ready for yesterday, I have a speech for today, and I haven't gotten to the floor yet, except for the actual notes. As a Member, I feel reduced to my rights, and that is why I think that vote should be later than proposed by the government coalition. I propose tonight 22.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u165	22.30 today. Mr. Hendrych. Yes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u166	Mr President, fellow Members, I wanted to tell you so much yesterday and my turn did not work out. Today I'm also ready to give you the information that you're all looking for, of course, I believe even in the government coalition, and it looks like it's not gonna get back on me. So I would like to ask you and submit this counter-proposal - tomorrow at 12.05 a.m. to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u167	Tomorrow, 12.05. Thank you. Yes, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u168	Mr President, colleagues, I, too, would put forward a counterproposal to give everyone the right to speak, for tomorrow's time, 14.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u169	Thank you, Madame. I forgot. I've noted... What time exactly was tomorrow? 14.00. Thank you. A counterproposal, yes, Madame? A counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u170	As I would like, Mr Vice-President, to discuss what has been said here by the honourable Member, and I think it would not have gotten to me, so I am making a counterproposal. And because I would really like it not to be as tense as my colleague, Mr Nacher, said, by your means, I am giving the counter-proposal to 21.15 today. That's a good break, too, and I think I'll be able to explain why I have the opposite option from the same finding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u171	Thank you. Let's just take it as a counterproposal. [[Member of the War: Okay.]] I understand, 21.15. And Mr. Chairman Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u172	Very briefly. I'm also counter-proposaling - for tomorrow, that means Friday, 19 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u173	Tomorrow, 7:00. Thank you. I'm the one who's engaged and we're going to take the vote. [[Knocking cards in the desks.]] Yes, there's a motion for a check-out. So I would like to unsubscribe all of you and ask you to sign in. [[The ear in the room doesn't stop.]] Initiating vote. Once again, he's here... [[A voice from the diaper.]] So they don't pay anymore. The thing is, we've already been logged out, logged in, so we can take a vote. I am opening the vote, first of all, on the last counter-proposal of Mr Fiala - tomorrow, 19.00. Initiating vote, asking, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered 167, for was 72, against 89. Denied. We will vote against the proposal by Mrs Válková - today 21.15. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 167 was signed in for 72, against 87. The result is: rejected. It was also Mr Hrnčíř, tomorrow 12.05. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, entry 167, in favour was 72, versus 91. Denied. Next, the vote by Mrs Pošarová, tomorrow at 14.00. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 169 entered, for was 73, against 91. Denied. We will now vote against Mr Brož's proposal, today 23.30. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 169 was signed in for 71, against 93. Denied. Mr Kukla's counterproposal was 9.53 for tomorrow. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Voting number 32, registered 169, for was 73, against 93. Result: rejected. [[14.40 hours]] Now the counterproposal of Mr Hendrych - today 22.30. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33, registered is 169, for was 71, against 93. Result: rejected. Mr Brabec's counterproposal - for tomorrow 10.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, registered 169, for was 73, against was 91. Denied. We will now vote against Mr Štolpa's proposal, which he proposed - tomorrow at 9.35. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 169, for was 73, against 94. Denied. It was also against Mr Kamal Farhan's proposal - for tomorrow at 7.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 36, registered 170, for 73, against 94. Denied. Mr Kobza's counterproposal was - for tomorrow 11.45. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, registered 170, for 71, against 93. Result: rejected. It was also Mrs Dražilová, who came up with a counterproposal - for today 23.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38, logged in 171, for was 74, against was 92. The result is: rejected. It was also against Mr Vondráček's proposal - Friday 9.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, logged in 171, for was 74, against was 96. Denied. It was also Mrs Fischerová with a counter-proposal - on Friday 21.56. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 171, registered for 74, versus 95. Denied. It was also Mr Novák with a counterproposal - for today 23.55. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, logged in 171, for 74, versus 94. Denied. Mr Ryba's counterproposal - for today 22.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, logged in 171, for 74, versus 94. Denied. Now Mr Free with a counterproposal - for today 19.58. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, logged in 171, for 74, versus 85. [[Denied.]] It was now against Mrs Štefanová's proposal - for Friday 20.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered 172, for was 73, versus 96. Denied. Mr Oklešťek's counterproposal - on Saturday 9.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 45, registered 172, for was 75, against 94. Denied. Now against Mr Nacher's proposal - for today's 20.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[Raging applause and screams in the hall.]] Voting number 46, logged in 172, for 170, versus 1. Accepted. I'm saying the vote will be tonight at 8:00. And with priority... Yes, I'm sorry. There's one fact. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Mr. Bělica. [[Members gesture.]] That was a mistake. Now, with the priority right of President Schillerová. And I'd like some peace in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, I'm not gonna thank you. I am convinced that you are doing this for completely rational reasons, not for any love of opposition, even though I understand that you love Patrik, we love him, too. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] But I'm asking you another question. Yesterday, since Tuesday, we've been discussing whether we were at a point when we wanted to ask or when we proposed a break in time, we weren't at a point. When you came to suggest a shortening of the time and a limitation of the time we could perform, we were at a point. Yesterday, proposals for a change, termination of the item or a solid vote on the termination of the item were obstructive. The President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Adamová, basically prevented a number of colleagues, whether from the ANO movement or the SPD, from making proposals for a firm vote. It's been classified as obstructive. We didn't even agree on any procedure on the exceptionally called Gremium. And today, oddly enough, you're going to let all the opposition proposals vote and you're going to support my colleague Patrik Nacher's rational proposal. [[14.50 hours]] Well, it's clear for me. It's leaking in your shoes. You're leaking into your shoes, you know you're overreacting, and you're trying to improve your position at the Constitutional Court. But I can assure you that you can't handle it anymore. I'm convinced of that. And I'm allowed to quote, too. Here a number of colleagues from the five koalice quote different opinions and various extracts from the Constitutional Court. So here I will quote the respected renowned professor of law at the Faculty of Law of Charles University, Professor Marek Antoš, who has recently stated, it is not even a month, fourteen days: According to Article 6 of the Constitution, political decisions are based on the will of the majority expressed by free vote. The majority's decision-making takes care of the protection of minorities. However, a state of legislative emergency can only be declared under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. A case where the government has not responded in time to developments that have been known for a number of months, and now, at the last moment, perhaps even retroactively, is trying to enforce a change of law and is afraid of obstruction of the opposition, I strongly underline, cannot be regarded as extraordinary circumstances. It is good to remember that we have experienced a very similar situation before in 2010. The government wanted to reduce support for building savings, but it was afraid that it would damage it in the autumn elections to the Senate and the municipal councils. That is why she submitted the proposal just after the election. At the same time, however, she needed his approval to reach the end of the year. The opposition threatened obstruction, so the government asked for a state of legislative emergency and passed the law. The opposition Members therefore turned to the Constitutional Court -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u175	I'll cut you off, Madam President. I'd like some peace in the O.R., or you can sort out what you need in front of the main hall. Everyone, please. Left-hand side, yes, please. I'm begging for peace one more time. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The opposition Members therefore turned to the Constitutional Court and concluded that the law had not been adopted properly and therefore abolished it as unconstitutional. Today's situation differs only in one way or another. I'm still quoting Professor Marek Antoš. It was not yet a clear question, while today we have the Constitutional Court's decision at our disposal. In other words, Marek Antoš also indirectly confirms that the government seems to have postponed the decision to change the Valorisation Mechanism until after the elections, albeit in the presidential elections. And because it no longer has a great chance to approve its proposal in another way despite opposition in the term, it has declared a state of legislative emergency, and worse, it reduces the rights of the opposition in a fundamental way in this state and in all its stages of negotiation in a reprehensible way. That's why you've been very helpful today. It's all there is to it. Because yesterday, you know you guys messed up a lot, but a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u177	Thank you. We have two factual points here. The first was President Michálek, then Mr Brázdil, and then Mrs Klára Dostálová and Mr Radim Fiala, according to the advantages, should be Mr Klára Dostálová and Mr Radim Fiala, but they preferred President Okamur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u178	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the opposition for regaining her senses, for bringing reason into the negotiations and for pushing for a shorter discussion period. I think that's quite appropriate. However, in order to have another constructive debate, so that more speakers who want to speak here really get a fair look, I asked President Karel Havlíček to lead the speakers consistently to the point, as the Rules of Procedure say, that there should not be a repeat of the situation where Mr Okamura here read more than thirty minutes of social security organisation at the point of the accelerated negotiations. I don't know if it was from any thesis or any report, in any case it had a very vague connection with the assessment of the terms of the short-term negotiations. Our task now is to create a representative space here so that Parliament can fulfil its function, and therefore, if we let other speakers speak outside the topic, this will, of course, shorten the time for those who would like to express themselves legitimately, and that would not be right. Thank you for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u179	Thank you. Another one, with fact, is Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u180	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to respond to what happened here. Now we have witnessed that we could submit counter-proposals, even supported one of our proposals, and there was no problem. Yesterday, at this time, she chaired the President. She didn't do it right. You've confirmed it now. I'm just asking, co-workers, colleagues across all of us, what are we gonna do about it? What are we going to do about how badly she went, how she behaved, how she ran this whole place, Madam President? We chose her. There's something you need to do about it. Think about it. There's a lot of solutions. I'm putting it in the diaper more likely to those who weigh more than me as an ordinary MP, but something should be done about it. By not actually protesting right now and letting us put up counter-proposals, and the chairman was right, you confirmed that last time, yesterday, someone was doing it wrong. And very bad! What about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u181	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. President Okamura, in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u182	So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand from the SPD's point of view what's going on here. Is there an agreement between the ANO movement and the government coalition? I proposed, we've been building this place for three days, I suggested that this be voted on Sunday at 20 o'clock, and here he went through the joint votes of the ANO movement and the government five-calice motion of Mr Nacher to vote today at 20 o'clock? What's that supposed to mean? It confirms that the SPD movement seems to be the only opposition party here, and I absolutely do not understand, because the proposal of the YES movement, Patrik Nacher, has caused the situation that 63 members and the ANO and the SPD cannot perform, because it cannot be done within 20 hours. I absolutely can't agree with that. So is there a deal or what? Without an SPD? It upset me and I'm unhappy, don't be mad at me because Patrik Nacher's proposal from the ANO movement actually went through here to speed up the government's ability to rob 3.5 million pensioners and reduce their valorisation. So, my proposal, I wasn't exactly suggested until Sunday at 20 o'clock. We're fighting to the max here, I've been talking here for almost ten hours to delay the negotiations, the SPD is just fighting all it takes to take the seniors away, and now there's gonna be an ANO motion to vote today at 20 o'clock? Well, that's really shocking. And I don't want to bother my colleagues, but we just don't understand what happened here at the SPD. Don't be mad at me, I don't understand. Mr. Michálek here said opposition, but it was the YES movement. The SPD movement suggested Sunday at 8:00. And I'm in shock. The SPD will continue to fight against you robbing 3.5 million pensioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u183	Mr Robert králíček, then President Cogan, then Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u184	I, Mr President, colleagues, must respond primarily to the demagogy that Mr Tomio Okamura has said. There was no deal. Mr President, if you listened well, we had other proposals, through the President. The fact that the coalition once again showed its arrogant behavior and mocked Patrik Nacher, a person who was trying to be constructive, even in the last parliamentary term, when he offered cooperation and opposition partners, they totally ridiculed him here, they went there to congratulate him, such awkward behavior. So don't tell us, Mr. Okamura, that you're the only authentic opposition here. There were a lot of other counterproposals. The fact that the coalition simply took advantage of its arrogance and tried to mock one of the most hardworking Members here is just a question of how cocky and pompous they are. But, Mr. Okamura, don't be a demagogist and there's no deal. You're lying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u185	Thank you. Another of the applicants is President Cogan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u186	I originally wanted to respond to something a little different, but now I'm gonna pick up. I don't think we're pompous. I must say that my colleague Nacher has made a constructive proposal and we have supported it. So I did not see any arrogance in our vote. At the same time, I would respond through the President and to my colleague Brázdil. I would just tell him that the President has done the right thing. We could object to the President's procedure, but no one raised it. It's like life. If he's not a prosecutor, he's not a judge. If the objection were to fall, we would treat it as the House, and perhaps we would decide that the procedure was already too generous and that it allowed too wide a possibility. But that didn't happen, so in that moment, everything is fine in this spirit. I think the President's approach was quite correct and correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u187	The next enrollment is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u188	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to emphasise here what I announced yesterday that Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, was not acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. She did not allow her colleagues to submit their counterproposals. At the same time, we believe that it was not at all about the proposal to shorten the deadline and vote at 16 o'clock, so it should not have put it to a vote at all. I said the reasons here, she didn't vote on my objection. She then put forward a vote on Radek Vondráček's objection. But I would like to say that the President of the Chamber of Deputies is the President of all 200 Members and must behave fairly and fairly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That is in no way the chair of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová. There is clear evidence that the President is not to be President of the Chamber of Deputies because she must respect the Rules of Procedure and must act in accordance with it. And here it became clear that she wasn't on purpose listening to the government coalition. And that, in my opinion, is unacceptable, and this House should not allow it. Neither the coalition nor the opposition. I have to say, I was here in my last term of office. Radek Vondráček, as president of the House, never dared to do this. He always tried to make a deal. And what she did here yesterday, Madam President, is for me, I dare say, on her appeal. She doesn't have anything to do with her job! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u189	The next enrollment is President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, Prime Minister Michálek, through the Vice-President, keep your thanks out of the way. I'm making this perfectly clear to you. When I got out a minute ago, I said I wouldn't thank the five-calice. I'm not gonna thank you because you just wanted to fix what you screwed up yesterday, you took advantage of our MP and his counterproposal, Patrik Nacher. And, President Okamura, through the Vice-President, if I have looked closely, the entire SPD, including you, has supported Patrik Nacher's counterproposal, so please forgive these invectors of yours. Forgive them. We voted once again on the assessment of the time for the vote to assess the conditions for the discussion of the House of Press 392 in the shortened negotiations. Not about the merit itself. It'll probably happen tomorrow, if you cut us up again, maybe Saturday, maybe Sunday. And that's where our opinion is absolutely clear. We'll never support anything like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u191	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, colleagues. We continue with factual remarks. Mrs Ožanová is applied for, Mr Flek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u192	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to draw your attention to the debate that was, that the five-wheelers have proposed a time of 15.30. And the fact that they accidentally raised their hands for something that one of our colleagues suggested, that's fine, but they originally wanted to cut us down at 3:30. I'm sorry, colleagues, to say so. I'm gonna go back to the way the Prime Minister ran the House yesterday. I told you before nine o'clock today, but since there were so few of you in this room, I'll take the liberty of repeating it. Article 26 of the Constitution: The Member shall implement the mandate separately. [[He speaks very strongly.]] And yesterday it was said that many Members wanted to make proposals, and several Members were prevented from properly exercising their mandate and from making proposals in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So I don't think the Prime Minister just violated the Rules of Procedure. She violated the Constitution of the Czech Republic. That's how we have the representative of our House! Thank you for the warning, next time I will try to alleviate, but when I am a little bit, Mr President Výborný, through Madam President, yes, I will try to keep it down a bit, you are right, but nevertheless I was caught in the boil by our behavior - not by my - President of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u193	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mr Flek. Mr Volný Member will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u194	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will comment briefly on what has also been said here about Patrik Nacher, by your means. Because we had a choice in STAN to vote freely to support three colleagues from your side. And it was because the terms, the times that were said here, weren't obstructive, it made sense. And if we had a free vote and we supported Patrik Nacher, we had a reason. And the reason was that he was really one of the more hardworking Members, and we are very well working with him. So I don't see why your opposition is sounding like it's messed up. That he screwed up! Is that how you value your colleague? To comment on President Okamur. through you. If he had not selfishly spent time in the House, he would have gotten to the other side in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u195	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador. I would just ask everyone, even yesterday there were some crude expressions, please from both sides, so that we may not repeat the crude expressions. Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Volný, Mrs Peštová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u196	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, I don't want to evaluate the final appearance of my colleague. Leave it to us to evaluate Patrik's performance. We love him, and I know he did it in the best of faith. He just wanted to make the most of the minimum you guys wanted to let us have. And that's why I'm completely insulted by Mr. Michálek's statement, who says as a saint here, "Well, we're so kind. Remember, even with what we God-fearingly designed, or Patrik, you cut us short, because if you said two or five minutes, Patrik counted it for five minutes, you robbed me by five minutes, and all the others. That means it's a restriction, even though we clawed a little bit, but you're restricting us, and this was a restriction on our right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u197	Thank you. Mrs Peštová will now make a point of fact, and Mrs Šebelová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u198	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to Mr Okamura. Mr. Ambassador, I was reduced to my rights yesterday, and the reason the coalition gave it was because you had a long speech here. So thanks to you, we couldn't perform. So don't tell me we're connected to them. That's one thing. We're sitting here till 1:00, 2:00 in the morning. The ruling coalition or coalition MPs will confirm it to me because they are sitting here with us, and we are discussing matters. And look or listen to the stew footage of who's performing. They are members of the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u199	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mrs Šebelová. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u200	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to say for myself why I supported my colleague Nacher's proposal. I decided to support him now because it seems to me that this fits exactly with the system of modern parliamentary democracies. I take part in the delegation to the Council of Europe, and this is exactly how it goes, that you have a clear time for the time during which the law will be discussed, individual Members have a limited period of time for which they can speak. It's three minutes. So it seemed perfectly fair to me if we support this proposal that all 61 Members currently enrolled could express themselves within five minutes. Five minutes is a really long time to say a lot of things for, and if we give this space, then really all logged in, colleague Juchelka, Mrs Peštová, Balaštíková, Hanzlíková, Volný, Mračková Vildumetzová, Stržínek, Ryba, Kubíček, Berkovec, Farhan, Novák, Okleštěk, Fialová, Pokorná Jermanová, Brož, Maříková, Kolovratník, Bělica, Ratiborský, Wencl, Hrnčíř, Feranec and others, I will not be able to read it, so let me not delay it, so all these colleagues will be able to express themselves. So please give them space, because really in five minutes you can beautifully formulate the opinion you have on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u201	Thank you. Mr Nacher is now on the verdict. Mr. Lochman will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I am pleased that you appreciate me, but it is not really necessary, it is not absolutely necessary, because we have come up with counterproposals, because it seemed very unfair to us that even though there were 64 Members there, so my colleague Výborný suggested it in actually three quarters of an hour from the proposal. That means it would have turned out like yesterday, that even those with priority rights wouldn't have gotten there. And I'm a crazy fool, and I just came up with some quick calculation times five minutes, and it came through, oddly enough, and now all of a sudden, it's so funny. I don't think that should happen at all, because there shouldn't be any fixed time. As I said before, the majority of ordinary Members won't keep up for five minutes, so it takes a little patience, colleagues. And a colleague of Okamur. Well, the problem is, Mr President, through the President, that you have long speeches, which, although rightly or wrongly, I will not judge, they become a pretext for giving this firm time or limiting it to two or five minutes. Therefore, for the second time in three days, ordinary Members do not have a chance to speak at all. That's the problem. And when I looked into the mess, it was for my amendment - that I didn't even put it here - that all the SPD MPs voted, including Tomio Okamura. Well, I'd like that, please. Otherwise, we define ourselves here as an ANO movement very actively, including my person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u203	Thank you. Now, with Mr Lochman in fact, President Fiala will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u204	Good afternoon. Madam President, fellow Members, I wanted to support what my colleague Michaela Šebelová said here. I found a historical interview yesterday in Questions by Václav Moravka between Babiš and Mr.Fiala, where Babiš said that discussion should have its rules, that, for example, in Germany, I can quote from the interview, it is published on my Twitter, in Germany it is said and in ten hours the law will be discussed. [[unintelligible]] Every faction gets a certain number of hours. That's how it's on the Václav Moravec question record. That is why I personally supported Patrik Nacher's proposal, and I personally thanked him for being constructive. Because if there's rules like that around here, you better believe we're listening to each other most of the time, because most of us can express what he really wants to say in five, ten minutes, fifteen tops. And then we'd really have a discussion plenary here. I was studying civic education, so I imagined that people would come to the House and argue about opinions, but they have some clear time to make it at least to some extent effective. Then we'd listen to each other, we'd argue about opinions, and eventually there'd be a result. Instead, we have a trenches war here, everyone trying to play the other according to the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't make sense to citizens, and they're actually saying - what is it? It doesn't lead to the good name of this House, it doesn't lead to the good condition of all of us, because we're tired here, we're also trying to spend our free time here, we all have a family, I deal with kindergarten every day, we each solve our personal partners, so we'll ever see each other again. It's work, I'm not complaining about it, I just want to say that if we had the rules and we could have them structured like this, we really listen to each other. Then it would really be a house of democracy in which we can argue clearly about what our views are. So I would refer back to Mr. Babiš, what he said in Václav Moravec's questions. Let's have the same fun Patrik Nacher suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u205	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, President Fiala, Vice-President Bartošek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u206	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to pick up my colleague Lochman. It's interesting that you didn't want those rules last term. When it suited you, we were able to reconstruct the EET 223 days a year, so we didn't need the rules. Now that you're in the coalition, you need them. I understand that because it bothers you to be here listening to the views of both opposition parties. But let me also say that maybe in three years you'll be in opposition again, so you'll be screaming the other way around. So I get it, it's every term, every party that's in the coalition wants some rules to last as little as possible, and of course every opposition wants to be heard and seen. And that's how it is, and that's how it's gonna be. About what my colleague Okamura said here. You say we voted in favour of your opposition proposal. Yeah, well, imagine if we didn't vote for it. What would it look like? So you'd be standing here by the microphone right now, and what would you tell us? You didn't support us? You didn't vote with the opposition? You vote with who knows who. Well, we just voted in favour of your proposal. As far as the opposition is concerned, we are trying to stop this government from taking people's pensions, and we are therefore voting as a whole as an opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u207	Thank you. The Vice-President Bartošek will now make a point of fact, then Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u208	Thank you. I, my dear colleagues, have been partially confused because it is repeatedly said from the opposition that we are not talking to you, that we are not hearing your suggestions. And we will meet you, we will support you, and you do not like it either. After all, President Andrej Babiš, through you, can be satisfied, my successful Member, who has succeeded in convincing the coalition to support you. This is a success, Mr Babiš, through Mr President. We talk to you, we respect your suggestions. Patrik Nacher managed to bury the ditch between us. It's a good thing. We're cooperating, we're listening. I think this is a good way for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u209	Thank you. Now with the factual Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u210	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Vice-President Bartošek has already said so, through you. I also welcome the fact that we finally found it, too, that it didn't happen yesterday. We didn't find it yesterday, and there were a lot of mistakes, and then they would, of course, find themselves in the lawsuit, or the motion. But I wanted to do something else here. All the findings that are quoted here are just about the situations where, despite the opposition being and there exists, the opposition is cooperating with the coalition, and at least, as contained in several findings, there is a constitutional majority, which, in such exceptional situations, then in a certain way unanimously discusses and adopts the resolution together. That means if I transfer it to our case, that's not what's going on here in the last two days. So the findings have limited validity. I'll talk about it. [[15.20 hours]] And I wanted to thank Patrik Nacher for giving me the opportunity, even for five minutes, to talk about what I really can't do in two minutes, see that my time is running out, and I may need to respond to what Mr Výborný said through you. I don't see anything wrong with it. I think, and Mrs Schillerová, the President of our parliamentary club, has said so, by your means, that we should not confuse the assessment of the conditions for discussing the House of Press 392 in the short-term negotiations with the substance itself, that is, by discussing the law. We'll talk about that next time, and we'll definitely need a lot more time there. But now we've proven ourselves to be a constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u211	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will now speak with effect, and Mr králíček will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u212	I would like to respond by your means, Madam President, to Mr Lochman. I myself presented here an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the previous parliamentary term, which was just unfolding from the Bundestag. And I have to say, maybe you and your coalition partners could make it clear why they were fundamentally against it back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u213	Thank you. Mr králíček, President Schillerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u214	Madam President, I would like to respond to the absent Vice-President of the House, Mr Bartošek. Vice-President Bartošek, through Madam President, no, it was not a ditching. You are the trenches of the ridiculous congratulations to Patrik Nacher, the mockery that the KDU-ČSL team here on the right-hand side of the team is heading towards Patrik, so you're making the situation in the House even more difficult with your ridicule and your arrogant behavior. But I will remind you of one saying: what one treats, which he also misses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u215	Thank you. Now, President Schillerová, with a point of fact, then Mrs Fialová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u216	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Lochman, I don't see you through Madam Vice-President, well, she's not the job, what we're doing here. Maybe you have it as a job. I have it as a public service. That's how I see it. And the rules you're talking about are probably what you'd like to set best yourself. You want to tell us how many hours, how long any of us can get off. Well, I think you've met your family, we've met, you've got a beautiful family, here in the galleys. I'll tell you what makes sense to citizens. It makes perfect sense to citizens - and believe that we have hundreds, thousands of different messages each of us - what we're doing here, what we're fighting for, who we want to protect, and who we're dealing with. Believe me, they understand. And on top of your general cheer. I will also add one proverb: who laughs last, he laughs best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u217	Thank you. Now, Mrs Fialová, with a point of fact, then Mr Brabec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u218	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to react, but Vice-President Bartošek provoked me to do it in the way he told us how we were burying the moats. The mockery. You know what? For some mechanisms and here the unnecessary factual remarks are de facto caused by the opposition itself. With the suggestions you're proposing here, who was on the night shift, if I take it that way, we've always come to some sort of statement every two days. I did not respond today because I thank Minister Jurečka, who responded here yesterday and finally said what he saw in the economic damage. If you hadn't cut us short, even in the first post, I wanted to disprove some of your valorisation, the accumulation of economic damage, on which it is built that we want to see further modulation. And that's what you've made impossible for us. You have made it impossible for us to come here today to defend it again, why we do not see the fundamental principle in economic damage and how you approach in principle how the budget is being established, how to manage this state responsibly and who is important to you in this state. We see it differently, and that is why we wanted to discuss it here and say that we have a completely different view of it. And we wanted adequate materials to do so, and that is why we wanted this press to be discussed in a standard legislative manner. But thanks to your obstructions that you're doing here, and you're constantly limiting us to words, we're performing here, and we're making more technical comments and expressing ourselves to what it looks like, and spending useless minutes on your pointless proposals to shorten our time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u219	Thank you. Mr Brabec withdrew his point of order. We have now exhausted all the factual points. Before I give the floor to Vice-President Dostálová, who will perform with priority rights, I will read the apologies. Bureš Jan apologizes all day for health reasons, Kovářová Věra from 14 to 15 for work reasons. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u220	Madam Vice-President, thank you so much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, Minister, I did not want to make any factual point, because, of course, I really want my honourable colleagues to be on the line, who are duly registered, but allow me, through you, Madam Vice-President, to turn against the words of President Michálek. We have not called for a vote to be reduced. We responded to the counterproposals. That's a big difference. That means you wanted to cut us back on our rights, and we responded with a counterproposal. So much for an introduction, just to be clear. I have actually called on, and I have actually had a speech here in the context of the legislative emergency, and I have asked the Prime Minister, you have all noticed that the Prime Minister is present because he is running for a vote, he is present in this House, and I have called on him to face the responsibility of the government and to explain to us why the government is dealing with this law in a state of legislative emergency, which has logically prompted us to shorten the possibility of discussing this law in committees. And it's very important because this government of yours, Prime Minister, didn't even give an impact analysis, what it would mean for all the households, for all the vulnerable groups, for the weakest in our society, which are the pensioners, what a huge impact it will have on the 20 billion that you don't want to pay them into their budgets. There's about 2.5 million pensioners here. And we're all aware that they're people who just don't come to the regular job market anymore to make a living. I've asked a few questions here, tried to respond both to the Minister, so I called on the Prime Minister, but you just don't answer our questions, so here we will follow those beautiful Czech sayings. I'll start with one, too, that repetition is the mother of wisdom. Once again, I remind you that the state of legislative emergency, and thus the result of this accelerated negotiation, is based on the fact that you have to fulfil one of the three conditions of that emergency. Either it's a health hazard, it's not here, or it's security, it's not here either, or there's huge economic damage. He meant that there are floods, that there are tornadoes and so on, where there is legitimacy. And I would like to know, Prime Minister, the answer to the great economic damage that is imminent here. Because the only economic damage I see here is the vortex in the state register. That's the only economic damage. That's what you've done! In the fall, the National Budget Board has already warned you that there will be extraordinary valorisation. And what was the result in the state budget? Well, you don't even have the money to properly valorize, let alone the extraordinary one. So now you're down to 35 billion. You stepped up to not putting this money in your budget, then of course you needed to wait, because this is a very sensitive issue, for the presidential election, and then you triggered it in an emergency in a state of legislative emergency. But there's no extraordinary circumstance here. It's just the government's fault here. This is not an emergency! I can't imagine if the Constitutional Court will take a different approach to this, what huge precedent will it be for the future, because every mistake of every minister will be an emergency situation in the Czech Republic? It's not possible to respect that. We again draw attention to the fact that we are ready to discuss the need to consolidate public budgets, to see the need for savings, to see the need for this debate. But it's not possible to touch people's money when the claim is made. And that claim simply arose at the end of January or early February and, of course, the June deadline of this year is just a payout date, not when it should take effect. So let's talk about 2024, let's look for savings together. We understand that, but you can't ask us to jump on the game here, that around November, December, inflation was 16 percent, that you thought it would be 3% in January. I don't think so. I think you knew what you were doing. And that makes it a more desperate situation. [[15.30 hours]] The annualisation of Czech pensions alone by an average of CZK 1,700 will barely cover what you have taken from the pensioners in the finals. And I'm reminiscent of 1. 1. 2023 increased the cost of social services. Excuse me, can someone here give me an answer, who's mostly using social services? Well, they're our seniors in particular. And you raised the cost to them. Their food prices went up hugely, their transport costs went up hugely, their pharmaceutical costs. And this valorisation is about covering at least part of it -- once again, I'm saying that it won't cover all the increased costs they have because you have to add energy costs, housing costs and so on, and so on. So he doesn't cover it by a long shot. It's CZK 1,700. I think that really, when we talk about any solidarity here, and the intergenerational cortex, let's really take care of those who have spent their entire lives making money to get some tax stuff, whatever infrastructure it is, and deserve to be treated very well. I just want to make a point, and it needs to be remembered here that in 2022 early retirement applicants were swamped by social security management. I mean, who applied for early retirement in 2022 today has several thousand more per month than if he had received a proper pension in 2023. Of course, you have to ask me how it is completely illogical that a person who works longer and applies for a pension has a lower pension in the finals than one who has worked less time and has gone to an early retirement. I am happy to answer: because I will speak again about laxity and again about the fact that, although I have said this once before, unfortunately I have not yet received the answer from Minister Jurečka. Minister Jurečka has burdened the state budget at a time when he wants to cut legal valorisation, and that is completely unacceptable for me. Early pensions are an option, and I do not question it at all, but it is expected and it would be right and logical for such a pension to be smaller. But the opposite has become true. When I look at it for the sake of economic reasons, I say again, this is being dealt with throughout Europe, once again it is not an extraordinary situation. This situation, which means inflation, but not as record-breaking as in the Czech Republic, is addressed by the whole of Europe. Of course, the whole of Europe and all governments are dealing with both the austerity measures and so on, but it is certainly not the way that the economy is totally strangled. Because if we don't put money into consumption, of course the inflation spiral will spin, so it could be even worse in the finals than it is. You're always enchanted by the fact that public budgets just don't have money. And I will ask the same question again, which I have asked many times. Minister Stanjura confessed at the end of the year that he forgot to ask for 53,54 billion of European funds. Well, since he forgot it in 2022, I'd expect him to fix it immediately in 2023. And here I'm going to have to argue a little bit with the fact that I'm afraid, or I suspect a little bit that the Minister might have done it on purpose to improve his budget in 2023. So when it forgot to ask for $54 billion and it was paid out of state money, well, if he gets $54 billion this year, he's got pensions. He's got no problems with pensions, and he's got about 20 billion left. So I don't really understand this debate. I would understand if it were to say yes, so let's just run this year, but please, together, let's look for savings for years to come, so that it really is viable for the state budget. So, once again, please, let us rethink and evaluate that it does not take time for short-term negotiations, that it is necessary to get this to a proper meeting, to the proper committees, so that not only the Committee of Social Affairs, but also the Committee of Budget, for example, should look at it from the logic of the matter, whether there is really somewhere else to look for savings. Because I don't understand why you're looking for those savings right with the weakest. That's not really a question of great heroism, because for the weakest, everyone dares rather than come up with a series of measures. Please say that there are no grounds for shortening the negotiations, that we want to talk about it, there is no emergency situation, there is no tornado, there is no floods, there is no pandemic on a large scale, no threat to the security of the state itself, so that we have to use this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u221	Thank you. Mr Hendrych will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u222	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will use the factual comment that I will respond to my colleague, Klára Dostálová, because I wanted to talk about the issue that she has outlined here in my speech. I hope I can get to that. Now, just very briefly. You mentioned that someone from the ministry de facto gave some incentive to apply for early retirement and to increase their pension rather than to apply for it this year. That was the case, I noticed it as a member of the Committee on Social Policy because I was following the issue, it was in the media, it was from one unnamed official of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs I suspect in the news, it subsequently started in the media, and it has already been discussed and already de facto reported to other candidates and other potential candidates, and from that finally it was three times the number of people who are usual in that year to apply for early retirement. I would like to follow up on one important thing here, because already in 2001, the countries of the European Union in Stockholm have applied to the so-called open method of coordination for pension systems in Europe and have formulated some eleven common objectives that should somehow maintain or ensure the sustainability of pensions. And one of those eleven points is - I quote - that workers will not be encouraged to retire earlier and will not be penalized if they remain on the labour market. I'm going to make a more extensive statement about this later in my next speech, but that's exactly it. This condition by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was de facto not respected by a particular official last year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u223	Thank you. The President of the Fiala is now registered with priority rights and then Mr Vondráček will speak with the club's opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u224	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we are already discussing the bill proposal and all those conventions for some time and, of course, lawyers, constitutional lawyers, and I am referring specifically to the assessment of the terms and conditions for discussing this press in the shortened negotiations, whether this is what we have been discussing here, that is to say, the use of the state of legislative emergency or, in general, the reduction of the conditions. So let's see how some lawyers we know from public space view it. The Constitutional Lawyer from the Faculty of Law of Charles University in Prague, Marek Antoš, says that the use of a state of legislative emergency in the event of pressure on this amendment of the Pension Insurance Act is not an appropriate instrument for the abuse of this institute. In his view, the government also did not take the necessary steps to prevent a situation of legislative emergency. The fact that he does nothing and reacts only in a situation where there is a need to react quickly does not entitle the government to use this extraordinary device. Because extraordinary circumstances are not fulfilled, says Dr. Antoš. The Constitutional Court has touched on the issue of the adoption of laws in a state of legislative emergency in several of its findings. Among other things, he stated that the Chamber of Deputies has a wide discretion when examining the question of the justification for declaring a state of legislative emergency. This measure is already given the very purpose of this institute, which is to enable the legislator's immediate response to an emergency, which threatens to have serious legal implications for fundamental rights and freedoms, state security or property value. Although the institute is a state of legislative emergency exclusively by a legal institute, it must be interpreted as a principle of principle that is deducible from the normative principle of democracy, that is to say, Article 1 (1) of the Treaty. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic and therefore the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency must be interpreted very strictly and very restrictively. The reasons for its application must indisputably be legitimate and constitutionally competent and verifiable. Its assessment must be subject to the strictest standards. In order to avoid arbitraryness or direct action - we see in these days - the ruling majority must be detailed, properly and revised, as required by the doctrine of limitation of fundamental rights and as a result of claims for fair decision-making. The same strict standards, when the specific reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency are already assessed as legitimate and constitutionally verifiable, must also be measured by respecting all the rights and principles governing the legislative process, this time, in the context of the procedure foreseen for the state of legislative emergency, especially because, on the one hand, there is a clear reduction in legislative procedures and restrictions on the rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as the relativisation of democratic principles of the ordinary legislative process. Therefore, any further reduction or limitation of rights and principles should be considered extremely serious, as there is a risk of denying the rights of the opposition and of the democratic principle itself, which could affect the quality of democracy itself seriously and permanently, at least in its perception of citizens. This is what the Constitutional Court's 2011 finding says, among other things. It should be pointed out once again that the condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is not only a threat of certain negative consequences, but, above all, the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. However, according to the Constitutional Court, it must be quite clear what specific consequences are threatened by the government for the values defined in the provision on the conditions for declaring a situation of legislative emergency and subsequent shortened legislative action, i.e. what justifies the conclusion on the threat of significant economic damage or the threat of fundamental rights and freedoms or the security of the State. I hope that no one will call it that the government is taking real pensions from seniors, that no one will call it economic damage. I think that would be really unfortunate. These reasons must not be arbitrary and specific draft law, which the Government proposes to discuss in a short hearing, must constitute an appropriate means of preventing the emergence or duration of the threat of public interest in question. None of this is undoubtedly fulfilled in the case of a government amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. I also consider the international European context to be very important in adjusting the fundamental restriction of the legislative process. So let's look at this, as somebody has already quoted, how it looks in neighboring countries. And I will not give examples from Hungary and Poland, although I could and would be interesting. But when I also know that some representatives and, above all, representatives of the government coalition, euphemistically speaking, do not love this country and its current government and prime minister very much, and how many times do they make it clear to me here, I will use examples from other neighbouring countries, a government coalition far closer. The institute of the state of legislative emergency is not Czech specific. Similar institutes are embedded in the constitutions - not only in simple laws like ours, and this also bears witness to nothing - the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria. When comparing these institutes in the given countries, it is quite clear that their purpose, the adjustment of their use, the constitutional limits and the frequency of the application are very different from the institute of legislative emergency regulated in our legal order. In Germany, only the Federal President, on a proposal from the Federal Government, declares a state of legislative emergency with the prior consent of the Federal Council, the Upper Chamber of the German Federal Parliament of the Bundestag. However, the President is not obliged to comply with the proposal for a legislative emergency. It has its own political discretion as an end-of-the-line political and constitutional player and therefore its own political responsibility. Attention, this provision has never been applied and applied in the history of the Federal Republic of Germany. In Austria, the institute of legislative emergency at the federal level is foreseen by Article 18 (3) to (5) of the Federal Constitutional Law. This provision constitutes the legal basis for dealing with exceptional situations where the legislative body at the federal level is not capable of quorum for various reasons. The state of legislative emergency is defined as a situation where the averting of obvious and irreparable damage to society requires, according to the Austrian Constitution, the immediate adoption of the National Council resolution, which is the lower chamber of the Austrian Parliament. In such a case, the Federal President, on a proposal from the Federal Government, may take responsibility for his or her and the Federal Council, the Government, the so-called interim regulation by which he may amend the law and take action to avoid damage. These provisional regulations shall not amend the provisions of the Federal Constitutional Law and shall not constitute a permanent financial burden on the State, the Länder, their counties or municipalities, or a financial obligation on citizens. Furthermore, they must not concern the disposal of state property, the area of labour law - and beware - of social insurance rights, which is particularly interesting due to the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act, with which the Czech Government is coming today. In its 2011 decision, the Constitutional Court states that if the Government justifies the need for the adoption of a draft contested law in a shortened act and in a state of legislative emergency, the negative consequences resulting from the fact that its draft State Budget Act does not count on these changes, such an argument cannot be considered acceptable for reasons defined by law for declaring a legislative emergency. I'm convinced it's exactly this case. I also consider this to be very important here. [[15.50 hours]] It is the responsibility of each government to base the draft law on the State Budget on the applicable legislation and, if it considers it appropriate to make changes to it, to implement its authorisation in a timely manner to submit the corresponding bill by means of which it would have made the required changes. That's exactly it. This is where the government was supposed to submit an amendment to the Act on Valorisation of Pensions in the legislative process last autumn. And she cannot say that she didn't know anything, because the Czech bank clearly knew, and she missed only by 1%, that inflation will be around 18 percent this year. And the predictions were clear for a long time. I don't know why the government didn't do it. It's possible it was because of the presidential election or other things. She didn't want to upset the citizens before the presidential election. But that's not an argument. And what I said here, says the Constitutional Court. And so do we. If the government wanted to save on pension expenditure, it should have submitted a legal amendment to the revision of the valuation scheme last autumn. It's quite obvious. We would not agree to this, we would protest, fight and argue against it, and of course we would also vote against it. But it would at least be fair from the government and fair play, by the way, because it would reveal its intentions to reduce real pensions before municipal, senate and especially before presidential elections. That's what I was just talking about. In the context of the relevant findings of the Constitutional Court, I also consider it important to mention what was mentioned here, for example, by Mrs Šafránková, and this is the fact that the Constitutional Court repeatedly expressed serious doubts about the constitutionality of the actual legislation of the Institute for the state of legislative emergency, which has not been changed since then. Translated: Although indirectly, the Constitutional Court has quite obviously and clearly stated that it considers that part of the House's Rules of Procedure, which concerns the state of legislative emergency, is unconstitutional. It could be said that this was also a direct challenge for legislators to change this regulation, or a call for Members or Senators to think something similar, to file a constitutional complaint against this amendment, because the Constitutional Court itself cannot change the relevant provisions on laws without a proposal. Even this fact clearly states that we should be very careful in terms of shortening the legislative process and using its non-standard forms and using it as little as possible, if at all. The Constitutional Court even explicitly stated and considered that The Chamber of Deputies should have considered amending its Rules of Procedure in the provisions relating precisely to the adjustment of the state of legislative emergency so as to be constitutionally conformal, in accordance with the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, even at European and international level, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the rights of the parliamentary opposition are protected through the protection of fundamental and political rights of members of parliamentary minorities. Similarly, this is the case in the Czech Republic. Although the Constitution of the Czech Republic does not explicitly mention the Institute of Parliamentary Opposition and only the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies refer to parliamentary opposition under the term of non-governmental political party. Nevertheless, it can be concluded with the support of the constitutionally normative democratic principle applying to the democraticity of internal parliamentary processes and procedures that the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition, this is the rights of non-governmental parliamentary political factions or individual Members and senators, are either explicitly expressed in the Constitution of the Czech Republic and in the constitutionally conformed rules of the two parliamentary chambers, such as Articles 27, 28 and 30 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, or are immanently present in the Constitution of the Czech Republic for the normative, value and binding action of democratic principles. With the help of a constitutionally conformal interpretation of the various provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the light of the above-mentioned requirements arising out of the application of principles which must be controlled and complied with by a proper legislative process, it can also be recognised from the current form of the Rules of Procedure of the two Chambers that its purpose is to guarantee these rights to the opposition. Therefore, I, too, will not speak for much longer so that the rest of the opposition has the right to comment on these bills. But let me finish this. Only a legislative process that allows rational discussion, hearing of all parties and open discussion among opponents of competitive views, including the views of minority, supported by the possibility of active participation of participants in its course, can therefore be considered appropriate. It is therefore necessary to define and specify the above-precended rights of the parliamentary opposition, which guarantee both active and passive participation in parliamentary procedures. This is because its guarantees and implementation are one of the necessary conditions for meeting the requirements for a proper and fair democratic legislative process. I hope that the Constitutional Court will be the guardian of this proper and fair democratic process. One of the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe includes within the scope of those rights of the parliamentary opposition, which is linked to its participation in legislative procedures, in addition to the guarantee of its simple participation in parliamentary discussion, the right to vote actively in the debate, which we are talking about, that many of my fellow Members in the opposition had no right to speak at all today and to comment on the point at issue, and also the guarantee of the possibility of affecting the parliamentary meeting's very agenda, which should not be in the hands of the ruling majority, to achieve the inclusion of a new item on the agenda or, on the contrary, the possibility of blocking it or delaying the discussion of a particular item in the programme by means of so-called obstructions. So you can see that even the obstructions are part of the normal democratic order of the various parliamentary assemblies, such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I consider this very, very important in the context of today's extraordinary meeting. Admitting some of the rights that I have mentioned, the parliamentary opposition, or the factual impossibility of their proper and undisturbed exercise as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, may lead not only to weakening the legitimacy of the exercise of power, but also to endangering the democraticity of the political system itself. Balance between the rights of the government majority and the anti-government minority is also important. This requirement is, among other things, an expression of the so-called principle of government at a time when both the current ruling majority and the opposition minority should bear in mind that they do not belong to one or the other group forever and that the current ruling majority can soon become a parliamentary minority and vice versa. I have explained to the ruling majority here several times today that it may simply happen in three years' time that they will be an uncontrolled minority and will try to change the order again and argue that they are undemocratic towards the opposition. Therefore, such decisions should not be taken which would in fact make it impossible to exercise the rights guaranteed by one or the other group. Finally, I will mention something more about the constitutional criteria for declaring a state of legislative emergency and discussing the draft law in a short hearing under Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It's not gonna be a theory. I will only use the wording and their paraphrases without disturbing the nature and meaning of the communication. The Chamber of Deputies as a whole, and this is important, has the state of legislative emergency and the short-term negotiations themselves fully in its hands. It shall have the right to cancel or decide not to act in a shortened hearing when discussing the agenda if it considers that the conditions for its publication have passed or the conditions for the accelerated hearing have not been set at all. Thus, it is not a duty or obligation for everlasting times. One and the other aren't the same. The state of the legislative emergency is not equal to or may not be equal to, automatically shortened negotiations on the relevant draft law. Finally, the state of legislative emergency means disrupting or relativising democratic principles controlling the legislative process because, because of the speed of adoption of the submitted government bills, thorough preparation and knowledge of the present material is prevented and overall, parliamentary procedures of the debate are limited and shortened. [[16.00 hours]] There is therefore a significant limitation on the necessary parliamentary debate and debate, and the Chamber of Deputies can easily become merely an approved representative of the Government of the bills tabled without subjecting these matters to thorough scrutiny and consideration, or without facing criticism or any alternative proposals. This deficiency is becoming more serious when it comes to drafts of laws with implications for the sphere of fundamental rights and freedoms of addressees of the law thus adopted, which is clearly fulfilled in the case of a proposal for a reduction in pension valorisation, because it is an intervention in the social rights of their beneficiaries, an intervention in the right to adequate social security in old age, in sickness or in serious health, which applies to disabled pensioners. And those are constitutional rights, folks. The Constitutional Court also stated that the constitutional order explicitly allows the possibility of automatically discussing the Government's draft law in a short hearing only on the basis of the constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or war conflict. Therefore, if constitutional order provides for such an option only in one case, it is clear that in other situations it is not possible in general and automatically. Therefore, the Constitutional Court decided to accept this possibility only in really extreme and extraordinary situations. So I'm curious, and I can't forgive what the Constitutional Court will do with this situation headed by its President, Mr Rychetský. And I look forward to it. It can therefore be admitted that, at the level of the law, the Rules of Procedure, there will be other cases where laws can be discussed in a shortened procedure, but because the purpose of the constitutional regulation of a reduced hearing is the protection of the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic rule of law, the use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only if there is a broad consensus in Parliament and, respectively, in its respective Chamber. And that is definitely not here, because it is exactly 50 to 50 or 60 to 40, where the opposition minority, of course, is in a legislative hurry, nor does it agree with the shortening of the negotiations or the negotiations for the accelerated negotiations. The Constitutional Court even states that this should be the consent of acclamation, or at least of a majority, which is comparable to the majority required for the adoption of a constitutional law. Colleagues, I consider this to be very important and important. Listen carefully. Constitutional law. How much is that? 120. 120. I am convinced that it does not have a ruling coalition at all. And I look forward to hearing the Constitutional Court. Or only when the type of seriousness of the situations in which the state of legislative emergency will be applied corresponds with its seriousness to the situations envisaged by the constitutional order for the accelerated negotiation of the draft law, and this is only a state of threat to the state or state of war. This, in my view, is the key to how we are to approach a state of legislative emergency and a shortened legislative process. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I have said in this speech is based on the authoritarian final decisions and findings of the Czech Constitutional Court on the state of legislative emergency and on the related short-term negotiations on draft laws, where the ordinary legislative process is essentially demoted to a formal procedure enabling the government to approve basically anything in a single day. That's why we're fighting it so much. We do not want any further short-lived negotiations tomorrow or any other legislative emergency due to something the government has forgotten or lacked the political courage to push it through before the elections. There's just going to be a legitimate legislative process here. And if it doesn't, the government will just have to face a request for distrust several times again. What will allow it to de facto shut down the standard constitutional and democratic parliamentary mechanism for a time. That's right. The legislative emergency, or the accelerated procedure, once again, allows the government to de facto shut down the standard constitutional and democratic parliamentary mechanism for a time. And that, in my opinion, is not possible. And, of course, the opposition has a controlling role to play, and it must be defended, and we will defend it. It is clear from the specific case-law of the Constitutional Court and from the very nature of the Czech constitutional order that the use of the format of the state of legislative emergency in the discussion of the Government's proposal to amend the Pension Insurance Act in the case of the retroactive reduction of pension valorisation is not in accordance with the Constitution. It's not in accordance with the Constitution. I say this repeatedly, loudly and in detail, because we all swore and made our vows to the Constitution. I take it seriously, and I consider it the main principle of my work. And so do you, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u225	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, who is responsible for the ANO Club, will now take the floor with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u226	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have finally reached my turn with the opinion of the MP. I would not surprise you that the position of the ANO MEP is that the conditions for a short hearing are not met. Period. And now I could actually leave. This is the most basic position that should be heard here. But even though we are constructive opposition and after all these moves, and after we're already basically experiencing physical harm with some Members, when we're really here without a break for lunch, basically we've been acting here all night, so at least we've agreed to the time limit for those 8 hours so that we can just put some humanity back into the negotiations. So maybe I will shorten my speech somehow, but there must be fundamental objections, because they are then central to the Constitutional Court's deliberations and will be central to the assessment of individual judges of the Constitutional Court. What worries us most is that the briefing we're going to discuss today is something special. That's a real exception to the rule. This is the exception that the Czech Republic's law on security provides for and talks about constitutional order. 8, only in the event of a state of war or a threat to the state, which are certainly extreme, extreme in intensity, when the substance of the state is threatened, and subsequently the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies only extend these possibilities to significant economic damage and to the threat of human rights of the citizens of the Czech Republic. However, at the same intensity. I don't find the payment of valorisation to seniors as a major threat to the state in the intensity of war. Or, as someone here has already noted on the microphone, are we in a state of war with retired people? Finally, we're clear on what the five-calice is all about. She declared war on the elderly in this republic. It wouldn't have happened if there was more time. And the only reason we are discussing this in this unfortunate regime, which violates laws and is contrary to the Constitution and the rules that the Constitutional Court has established in its constitutional finds, which are widely quoted by both parties here, and everyone reads what suits him, so the only reason is that the coalition didn't do it until February. We've got a few days. And if he doesn't make it, the coalition knows he's in big trouble. My problem with the state budget balance. But the rush is not yet a constitutional reason for Parliament's procedures to change. I fully respect that most have the right to rule. I think he's read it to us three times, the passage from the constitutional find. He then deliberately does not read the rest: respecting the rights of a parliamentary minority, respecting the principle of pluralism of the democratic process, the so-called principle of hearing the parties. This is extremely important for the validity of any parliamentary debate. But you guys, in order to make it, and there's no other reason for it, you're just in the middle of time, so you're changing the rules. And from what's supposed to be an exception, you're starting to make a rule, because I'm already here the fifth time, here in this thing. [[16.10 hours]] I was acting under the pandemic law that you bent it and that you took advantage of a shortcut. I was acting under the Energy Act. After all, I also performed on the freeze of the salaries of constitutional officials, because you froze it there basically backwards and retroactively. It is just a subject where it is clear that there will be no Members who would put it on the Constitutional Court to investigate, because then it would be perceived by the public that they are probably some greedy people who want their salaries at all costs. But even then, it was unconstitutional from my point of view. You change the rules to the extent that you know you have... If it was a sports game, if it was football and it was even five minutes left, and you know you need to score, and even if you're already playing in power play eleven to nine, you still can't score that goal. Then you change the rules. And the rule is, the opponent can't play with his right foot. That's how I feel. You have limited our speaking time in violation of the Rules of Procedure. You voted for the emergency negotiations, the state of legislative emergency for an hour by a vote, that is, could not speak or give priority rights, could not speak, even those, for example, with the club's position, and could not speak most of the Members. And you guys are always blaming yourself for the EET that went through and that it's okay. And so I have repeatedly read you passages from a constitutional finding where it is said that a violation of the Constitution can be considered. But what matters is whether the opposition has been given adequate space. But for that EET it was 270 days, 40 hours of pure time discussion at that point. And when there's an analyst who's gonna do the job, you'll find that there was an extension on other points, where other points that would last ten minutes, it took hours for an artificial program to load there. And if it all adds up, Minister, it'll be more than three times 40 hours. I remember, I was there. The debate about the EET itself wasn't enough, but the obstruction points around it, they were clouds. There were loads of them! I will therefore try to act as a constructive opposition. I'll make it short, at least to allow some of my colleagues to perform again. But take it we've really done a lot of work with it. We have an analysis of the three constitutional lawyers that I originally wanted to read here to be available for the Constitutional Court's decision-making. So I will reduce this in some way, and I will focus on the state of legislative emergency and reduced procedure in general, so that you know what the position of the ANO member club is on the state of legislative emergency in general. And I understand there was already so much frustration here yesterday that the debate is repeating itself. Well, that's because the rules are bending. Now it's a short turn. This meeting was called for signatures. The legislator, when he wrote the Rules of Procedure, so calling a meeting for signatures, it was a completely different institution. That was for the parliamentary minority, so that at least sometimes they could get their rights, and that most of them wouldn't beat them up like that. And now it's being abused regularly. This is already becoming a standard for a parliamentary majority to call for the signing of a meeting so that the programme cannot be changed. I think it's a new one for this term where my memory goes and what I've studied. And there's never been that many government signature actions with a pardon. The situation of a legislative emergency and the resulting reduction of proceedings are intended for the adoption of laws at a time of emergency, when the work of Parliament is prevented or aggravated or there is a danger of delay. It is characterized by the adoption of legislation with the power of the law in a short time. For the monarchy, I will make such a bit of an educational insert, for the monarchy this situation was resolved by the fact that, at a time when the Reichs Council did not act, the monarch maintained the legislative authority in the form of imperial regulations pursuant to Section 14 of the State Basic Law, and legislation with the power of the law could thus be passed quickly and without Parliament's participation. That was very monarchist. The Imperial Decree, with the power of law, had to be signed by all members of the government and was no longer valid unless it was submitted by the Government for additional approval by the Reichs Council after it was finally able to meet. This system was applied primarily during World War I 1914 to 1917 before the Emperor, King of Bohemia, called the Reichs Council again. During the period of the Czechoslovak Republic, which I think is 1920 to 1992, was secured by the adoption of emergency legislation in the form of legal measures originally adopted by the Permanent Committee of the National Assembly in 1920 to 1939, and between 1948 and 1992 it was the Bureau of Parliament - the National and Federal Assembly, the Czech National Council. The most typical time when the essence of emergency lawmaking was fulfilled, and that is the phrase you remember - emergency lawmaking. We're supposed to be producing emergency lawmaking here, but in that emergency, it's just this government, no one else. All the speeches we have heard and all the reasons are part of the standard legislative process, and there is really no objective justification for the shortened negotiations and the state of the legislative emergency. The most typical time when the essence of emergency legislation was fulfilled was the period after the Munich Treaty in 1938 when a number of legal measures were taken to respond to the occupation of a significant territory of the Republic by foreign power. That was the situation, that was the threat. Outside the state of war and state of danger, the state of legislative emergency is dealt with by ordinary laws and it is the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate Rules of Procedure. The quicker discussion concerns only government bills, and each House can autonomously assess whether the state of the legislative emergency actually persists. That doesn't sound like the Senate's waiting for us yet. Even if I'm not delusional. The President is not bound by the Government's and Parliament's position. And if they agree to a legislative emergency, they sign the laws immediately after delivery. However, if he does not agree, he may exercise his right of veto for a period of 15 days from the service of the law. That is the first big question facing the newly elected president. I've been asked by the media what my guess is. And I said it's 50-50. Either he's really the president of everyone, either he's gonna do his own policy, and he's gonna have his own opinion, and he's gonna follow what's right, and he's gonna follow the constitution of this republic, and then he's not gonna sign it, and we're gonna sleep on these couches for nothing, or he's really a government candidate who's basically gonna go for the government coalition because they're actually doing this for him. Because in order to by any chance be supported by the anti-candidate Andrej Babiš, for whom it would be the water for the mill, of course, if it were known before the election that the five-calice wants to touch the valorisation mechanism, it was the only motive - not to strengthen the candidate Babiš. That's why we sleep here at night. That's why you're late. Now, let's see what Mr. President has to say. If, then, it is all one group that has a lower chamber, a upper chamber, a president, a President of the Constitutional Court, who has already clearly stepped out of the shadow of the Constitutional Court and expressed clearly whose side it stands, even though this law is going to set foot on the table here. And I don't know the answer. We'll find out from the President in the next few days. In exceptional circumstances, where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened or threatened with significant economic damage, the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall declare, on a proposal from the Government, a state of legislative emergency for a certain period. The House may cancel or limit the period for which it has been declared. We tried, we weren't successful. In a state of legislative emergency, the President of the Chamber of Deputies may decide, at the request of the Government, that the bill submitted will be discussed in a shortened procedure. And that's what we're dealing with now. The draft law to be discussed in a short hearing shall be ordered by the chairman to one of the committees and shall at the same time set an inexcessible time limit within which the committee is to submit a resolution to him with an opinion on the matter. That is what we blame you most for, that there was almost no time to discuss the committees. [[16.20 hours]] It was only yesterday that we learned that it was perhaps some amount of 600 billion, and it was said here twice on the microphone. I believe there would be people and experts on this committee who would comment on the amounts and how you figured out the amounts. How did this calculation actually happen? And is this the right calculation, or is this just some other demagogy? Unfortunately, this has not happened. This is the essence of the fact that you have made it impossible for the opposition to its work, you have reduced it to their rights, which, of course, has fundamental consequences in the quality of the rule of law and in that it does not correspond, in fact, to the distribution of forces of political forces not only in Parliament but in society as a whole. Of course, the Senate can also act in a short hearing. The Senate may discuss the bill referred to by the Chamber of Deputies if this proposal has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies in a short hearing and if the Government so requests. I assume the government has. The draft law to be discussed in the accelerated procedure shall be forwarded by the President of the Senate to the Organising Committee and shall be circulated without delay to all senators and senator clubs. The Organising Committee shall immediately order the draft law to the Committee or to the committees and shall set a time limit within which the committees must discuss the draft law. At the same time, it shall recommend to the President of the Senate that the bill be placed at the beginning of the agenda of the Senate meeting, and that meeting shall be convened by the President of the Senate in such a way that it is initiated no later than 10 days after the referral of the bill. Of course, the government has figured out that they have to make it to some date, that they still have to meet the Senate, and that's why there aren't even lunch breaks, which is why we're here all night, because they know the senators still have to deal with it. You know, the state of the legislative emergency was mostly abused by the government to speed up the enforcement of government bills and restrict the rights of the opposition, and that is what the Constitutional Court opposed in 2011. And these are the constitutional findings that we've mentioned here about ten times, 20, 50 times. It is, above all, the 55/10 and 53/10 finding, which for this reason abolished the laws adopted in a state of legislative emergency, unless there were verifiable and realistic reasons for this situation. The Constitutional Court stated that the legislation and the exercise of the legislative procedure itself must take into account the principles of division of power, pluralism, free competition, political forces, the principle of representative democracy, which is based on the free exercise of the mandate and equality of Members of Parliament, freedom, expression and free parliamentary debate, the principle of majority decision-making and its inseparable principle of protection for minorities, which is represented on parliamentary ground by a parliamentary opposition. Among these fundamental principles is now the principle of hearing all the parties that we have spoken of in vain for two nights, always around midnight. Finally, the requirement for public and transparent consultation of the law. The Institute limits or relativizes the above-mentioned constitutional principles and therefore the conditions for use must be interpreted very restrictively. The condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms, or where the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Such circumstances can only be a situation that is clearly out of line with the normal average political processes of internal and external processes, or a situation of natural disaster. An announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the negotiation of a draft law in abridged negotiations can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements of the constitutional order for the legislative process. In our view, they did not prevail, there are no conditions for you to reduce parliamentary legislative process, because the only reason is that you have filed late and that you are pressed for time. But that's the problem with the government, that's not the problem with the opposition. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies allow the use of a state of legislative emergency only in the event of the threat of fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way, the threat to the security of the state in a fundamental way and the threat of significant economic damage to the State. And now for the individual points. Threatening fundamental rights and freedoms. And I've already talked about it here in the midnight debates. In the case of pension valorisation, it is the fulfilment of the constitutional right that citizens have the right to adequate material security in old age and in incapacity for work, that is, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as well as in the loss of the provider, implemented in the form of pensions in our countries. The validation of pensions is then an expression of the material concept of the application of fundamental rights and freedoms. The material concept prevents fundamental rights and freedoms from becoming just an empty shell, and specifically that, at an unchanged absolute amount of pensions, their radical reduction to tumbling is not due to inflation. Valorisation ensures the maintenance of the basic pension right in the old age, disability or loss of the breadwinner in relation to the consumer basket by adjusting the current pension of pensioners in monetary terms in view of the real decline in the value of the money caused by inflation. The conclusion is, therefore, that the existence of a long-term known inflation-bound valorisation mechanism is a fulfilment of fundamental law, not a threat to it. Therefore, the reason for endangering fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be used for declaring a state of legislative emergency, and certainly not in a fundamental way. On the contrary, the question is whether the legal amendment proposed to discuss in a state of legislative emergency governing the link between the valorisation of pensions to inflation growth does not jeopardise this fundamental right of pensioners. One thing's for sure. I'm sure he's reducing it, because, in fact, in relation to the consumer basket, the pensioner will have less resources because of this five-calice action, he won't have enough resources for his needs. Come in. The security of the state is traditionally divided into internal and external. If external security were compromised and Parliament acknowledged this fact, it could declare a state of threat - which it did not. I'm speaking hypothetically. He also didn't declare a state of war. We're not at war, except that the coalition is at war with retired people. We're not even in a state of danger. Although Prime Minister Petr Fiala said that we were in a war that was grossly untrue and that he then replied that it was a metaphor, everyone can conclude whether it was a lie, an attempt to mislead the population, or just a metaphor for which an untrue statement is given or hiding, as the Office of the Government responded in the context of the interpelation. Or was it a request for information under the law? Now I'm not sure. Several factors may be at risk of national internal security. Sometimes there is a tendency for the government to pass as a threat to internal security and expression to the government of inconvenient opinions by people, which proves that the government of uncomfortable phenomena was shut down on the initiative of Military Intelligence in February 2022, which is why we signed up for the tradition of Victory February, by the way. In a democracy, the use of freedom of speech and government is acceptable. There is certainly no threat in the Czech Republic, or there are currently no phenomena within internal security, such as mass looting or civil unrest, which can be described as a major threat to the internal security state. The conclusion is, therefore, that the valorisation of pensions is not linked to either external or internal security of the State and therefore that reason cannot be used for declaring a state of legislative emergency. And now the central one referred to in the explanatory memorandum - the threat of considerable economic damage to the state. And I'm repeating here again, and we've already talked about this, and we've met, and the damage is seen as harm in the law. The damage in both civil and criminal law is conditional on an unlawful situation. In the present case, a broader understanding of the damage can also be applied in the legislative process, which may not be subject to a violation of the law, because of force majeure, vis maior, which may be floods or other natural disasters. Despite the fact that a broader concept of damage can be accepted in the context of a state of legislative emergency, compliance with the legal obligation of the State cannot be undermined. The payment of pensions is the fulfilment of the constitutional and legal obligation of the State to the eaters of these pensions who, as beneficiaries of these pensions, are entitled to them, at the level laid down by law, including legal valorisation. Standard compliance can't be a damage. That's what's going on here. [[16.30 hours]] It would be completely pointless to describe all the expenditure from the state budget as damage. The State budget consists of revenue and expenditure and is intended to convert its revenue into expenditure. The damage could be described as illegal expenditure made, for example, by fraud against the state, but it cannot in any way be described as constitutional and legal expenditure. This would lead to an absurd government to call it damage not only pension valorisation, but actually pensions themselves, which is obvious nonsense. And by the way, more constitutional lawyers worked with this argument. And I'm quoting one of them right here, it's not from my head. On the contrary, pensions are paid on the basis of the law, but they also have the constitutional basis I was talking about. It is surprising that the government calls the expenditure of the state budget for pensioners who are citizens of the state an expenditure which is constitutional, which is legal, but no longer constitutes damage, for example, the purchase of overpriced military equipment. How about buying very expensive fighters when money goes outside our state to foreign manufacturers, arms companies, and, of course, constitutional regulations say nothing about buying expensive fighters and weapons? If the government is short of money, which is the obvious reason why we're sitting here, it's her duty to secure constitutional payments, then legal payments, and then the other payments. And if he doesn't have all the payments, he has to cut payments that don't have a constitutional and legal basis, and not the other way around. I won't forgive that reminder again. Mr. Stanjura said he had the money. Then why are we meeting here in a short trial? Why is there no proper legislative or legislative debate at three readings as it should be? My conclusion, and as an opinion of the ANO movement, is that it is not a harm to valorize pensions laid down by law, which is the implementation of the material concept of the constitutional right to security in certain situations of life, and therefore cannot be used for declaring a state of legislative emergency. [[Valorisation]] [[determined by:]] Another condition that must be met is the suddenness of the situation. We've heard a lot about this in the last two or three days. While the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies do not explicitly mention that the requirement of declaring a legislative emergency should be an unexpected and sudden threat to fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way, a threat to the security of the state in a fundamental way or a threat to significant economic damage, but this condition results from the concept of a state of legislative emergency as an emergency in a legislative state that is only used in a state of distress, which leads, inter alia, to a reduction in the rights of the opposition. It is therefore unacceptable for the government to keep certain suggestions in the drawer and come with them on purpose at the last minute. To shorten the proper debate in Parliament and push a certain legal change, regardless of the laws in force. And I warn you, the rules of procedure are the law. Just because we're Members and we're some kind of suvren here doesn't mean we don't have to follow the law because there's no one above us anymore. On the contrary, we should be an example, and therefore we should follow the law. If the government knows of a problem that it believes requires legal change, it must deal with it in a timely manner in the ordinary legislative process. Courtesy, inability or purposefulness in the Government's dealings with Parliament cannot and must not be a reason for an easier way to negotiate the bill. The current valid wording of Section 67 of the Pension Insurance Act governing pension valorisation has been in the Pension Insurance Act for many years. The fact that pensions are increasing depending on price growth, if they exceed 5% since the last valuation, is a long-term law, perhaps I would say a long-term perennial. The government of Petr Fiala was appointed in 2021, 17 December. From this day forward, when applying the principle that the ignorance of the law does not excuse and that the state authority must know the law, it must be seen as an irrefutable legal presumption that the government knew that price growth was dependent on inflation and decisive for extraordinary valuation and achieving a 5% price increase since the last valorisation. According to the legal theory, even if it is proved that the relevant members of the government have no knowledge of our right, which appears to be apparent because it is an assumption that cannot be refuted. The material condition for Section 67 of the Pension Insurance Act to be fulfilled in the field of extraordinary increases in pensions is inflation of at least 5%. According to the table published by the Czech Statistical Office, the inflation rate shortly after the government of Petr Fiala reached 9.9 % in January 2022, 18 percent in September 2022, and then only slightly decreased. While it is general inflation, while for pensioners, and I am no longer the only one here who emphasizes it, while for pensioners the rate of price increase of their costs is decisive, it is clear that their cost of living has risen similarly. Even more so, because inflation was driven by an increase in energy and food, which is a significant part of the expenditure for pensioners. Thus, since the summer of 2022, the government has known that inflation is huge. Let me put it to you - it didn't interfere with inflation growth. Let us remember with love the expressions that the budget is anti-inflationary, that this government will fight inflation, and out of five, it has made it 19 percent. It could also assume that inflation would be slightly higher in January 2023, because - and indeed the signals from society were from all sides. I was really approached by my classmates, my old friends, my friends, that he'd be taller. Because many manufacturers and sellers adjust their prices for the beginning of the new year. A lot of manufacturers also ended their power fixation just at the end of the year and didn't know how much they were going to buy in January. They were limiting production. On Friday, people went home so they wouldn't have to close. These are all phenomena that, of course, the government must have known about. And if she doesn't, she's completely separated from the company she lives in, and lives somewhere else, lives in Strakovka and doesn't go anywhere else. However, even if January inflation were slightly higher and the legal conditions for valorisation had not yet been fulfilled, this would have happened only a month later, in February 2023 - and it would have happened. And the government didn't do anything, and it didn't expect a budget increase in pensions. That leads us to conclude that the law we're discussing at night has long since been set up in a drawer waiting for the right opportunity. The government did not solve the problem of valorisation of pensions, although it knew or should have known, the legal adjustment and inflation rates, which had been leading since the summer of 2022 to the fulfilment of extraordinary valorisation. In doing so, the government proposed and had two draft laws amending the Pension Insurance Act discussed in Parliament in 2022 and these were adopted. It was Law No. 221/2022 Sb. of 20. 7. 2002, Press of the Chamber of Deputies 237, Election Period 2021 to 2025, and Act No. 455/2022 Coll. of 13. 12. 2022, House press 301. [[2022]] Clearly, the government dealt with the Pension Insurance Act repeatedly in 2022, and even in the second half of the year, when it should have known the huge rate of inflation and its inability to reduce inflation, yet it did nothing, yet it did not set a ceiling there, for example. Apparently, she didn't do anything to change the valorization scheme. The excuses for the Presidency in the Council of the European Union are completely untrustworthy in the light of what the government and, in particular, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have been dealing with in retirement insurance. In the context of § 67d para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) and (e) the Pension Insurance Act, as amended by Act No. 455/2002 Coll. of 13. 12. 2022, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, instead of dealing with possible valorisation in a proper legislative process, focused on reducing the pension to the Presidents of the Czech and Moravian-Silesian National Committee, abolished 1948, to the Presidents of the National and Federal Assembly by 17 November 1989. But they are all dead and have no pension. So there is nothing to reduce, which can be found on the Internet or a question about historians dealing with modern history. Yet Minister Jurečka specifically addressed pension reductions to these dead officials in the law. [[16.40 hours]] Such an adjustment makes no sense unless it is a modern - day legal equivalent of the old known hatred beyond the grave embodied by the synod of the dead in 897, when Pope Štěpán VI. He had his predecessor, Pope Formos, removed from his grave and judged him dead. It is a late struggle with totalitarianism after 33 years, as if in 1951 someone saw the main problem of the time in the pensions of officials and politicians of the Habsburg monarchy. Where were the folks when the fight against totalitarianism was dangerous? And then let us believe in the promises that unnecessary legal regulation will be removed. We have obsolete legislation on the table here, they will be dealt with by the Constitutional and Legal Committee at their next meeting, and we have adopted laws on taking pensions to the dead. However, this in itself proves the dilettanteism and the inability of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which solves nonsense and not essential things in the legislative process. There's time for something, there's no time for something. So the minister came to hear me in person. And now it's gaining, and now it's got more grace. Let's go. Early pensions 2022, Minister, in 2022 early pensions applicants were swamped by social security management. Those who applied for early retirement in 2022 will have up to a few thousand more monthly than if they were to receive a proper pension in 2023. And how is that possible? It's pointless that anyone who works longer and applies for a pension when he's entitled to it will be worse off. I get it right, me with my layman's education legal? Justice and justice are not the same, and this example illustrates this. It's legal, but it's deeply immoral. It is a mistake that will burden the state budget at a time when the government lives on debt and spins inflation with a huge deficit in the state budget. Early pensions are options for how to take a pension before, but such a pension is expected to be smaller. And what happened? The opposite has happened. Understand ours already let's say a priori distrust of anything the ministry will put forward during this parliamentary term. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, who called on citizens to apply for early retirement in the autumn of 2022, cannot be understood at all because they have an extraordinary opportunity to obtain it under much more favourable conditions. So he supported this injustice in the law. About 100,000 more people applied for early retirement. The Czech Social Security Administration couldn't even handle the pressure of applications. However, it is certain that there will be a huge increase in pension expenditure. But most importantly, it's a completely unfair thing. Interestingly, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the government have not intervened against this injustice, but are intervening against the logical result of the increase in pensions on inflation. If there was any damage, Minister, it was your doing at the event at the end of 2022. The extraordinary valorisation was expected and certain from the perspective of a number of years of known legal regulation, even from the perspective of a number of months of known high inflation during the reign of Petr Fiala. It wasn't surprising how you're trying to tell us that you only woke up a specific day in February, now I forgot which one it was. On February 10th, the world just changed. February 10 was probably past the election, I don't know. The government had to know this, and it could have dealt with it under government bills amending the Pension Insurance Act in 2022, but it did not. Instead, it dealt with a completely senseless reduction in retirement for the dead and urged early retirement applications, which affected state spending. Clearly, the government did not need a state of legislative emergency if it acted with professional care, but deliberately did not deal with the matter before the presidential elections. The failure of the government, however, is not a reason for the adoption of a law in a state of legislative emergency. The adoption of laws in a state of legislative emergency was dealt with repeatedly by the Constitutional Court, including in the finding of 1 March 2011, with the number 55. In the present case, the Constitutional Court annulled a government-pressed law in a state of legislative emergency because it did not find any exceptional circumstance for this situation. I will quote: The Constitutional Court concluded that the only reason for discussing and approving the contested law by the Chamber of Deputies in a state of legislative emergency in a short-term negotiations was to threaten its timely adoption so as to take effect by the end of 2010, which was prevented by the opposition procedure pursuant to § 90 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of CRR 2 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which, by the way, you have not even tried while we are at it. However, the reason found cannot be regarded as a legitimate and constitutionally viable reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1). 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, the Constitutional Court concluded that, in the case at hand, all the decisions of the Chamber of Deputies' bodies taken on a proposal from the Government, as well as the decision on the duration of the state of legislative emergency and the duration of the conditions for the negotiation of the contested law in a short hearing, as we are now discussing, when releasing the first reading within the meaning of Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies were made contrary to the above-mentioned aspects characterising the constitutional democratic principle. Therefore, it was already possible to conclude the constitutional review at this stage by stating that in the process of the adoption of the contested law, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 Constitution of the Czech Republic and Art. 22 The Charter, all the more so in a situation where objections to the content of the Act have not been applied relatively. From all of this, and I am coming to the conclusion, it is clear that even in the event of a state of legislative emergency in the issue of pension valorisation, it is just and only for the government to push for the rapid approval of the law, and the valorisation of pensions is just - excuse me - and it has suppressed the opposition's right in comparison with the ordinary legislative process. Apparently, the government did not want to bring the law before the presidential election to support the victory of its supported candidate before the opposition candidate. Otherwise, nothing stopped her from presenting the adjustment if she thought it necessary a few months ago. The proposal could therefore be discussed in a proper legislative process. The announcement of a state of legislative emergency was an abuse of power by the Government and the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u227	Thank you, too. And by the time we get to the other speakers, I'll load up the apologies. He apologizes Mr. Bartošek Jan from 15.40 to 17.00 for work reasons, Mrs Nováková Nina from 15.00 to 23.50 for work reasons, Mr Vlček Lukáš from 15.15 for work reasons and Mr Wenzl Lubomír from 15. 30 to 23.59 for work reasons. Mr Vondráček's speech raised one point of fact, Mrs Válková. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u228	Thank you. I don't want to take time from those who are properly in order, so I'm gonna watch that I'm really even shorter. I refer exactly to what was said here as the club's position and what the club was putting together from the very findings that were repeatedly quoted here. And I always smiled because it seemed to me that the parts and parts that sounded out of them were being ripped out of them, and even as they were quoted, very vaguely, whereas those which were clear and which said that there was no justification for the legislative emergency by the government's getting into trouble with time, unless there was an exceptional circumstance in the form of those three basic groups of security, of course, some of the extraordinary events of the type of disasters and serious economic damage where we were instructed, are not, therefore, here Mr Jakub Michálek, by your means, confusing the civilian-legal concept of damage with what it sounded like in the Constitutional Court's finding, or extensively, but he forgot to say that the following finding then narrowed it down and tightened it. So just in terms of continuity, let me say that his instruction was not appropriate, or I will not criticize that he did, but from a material point of view, I think it would not stand. I just want to point out here that we, as a coalition, draw your attention to the fact that there are already decisions of the Constitutional Court, which can apply almost one to the situation that has now occurred. That you, as a coalition, know how this is going to end. [[Time.]] And that's why... [[President: Time, Madame.]] Okay. I know. And that's why I recommend balance sheet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u229	Thank you. Another one with a point of fact, Mr Vondráček. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u230	I'm just very brief, because my honored colleague here mentioned the very performances of Mr. Michálek. But he argued for nothing, because the primary is an assessment of the intensity, the intensity of the economic damage that must be at the level of Article 8 of the Act on Security of the Czech Republic, and this is a threat to the state and the state of war. And then we get to the definition of damage, as he quoted from the constitutional finding that it could be damage in a broader political context. We never got to this point. We are not in a phase of economic damage that would threaten to threaten the state. Someone's always trying to talk us into it. After two days and nights, we received an amount from the Minister that maybe up to 600 billion, and I am convinced that if there was a proper legislative process, we would be subject to proper criticism on the committees and that it would not stand. I'm a complete layman, but the government has the power, it has the government, it has the majority in parliament, it has the key to the rule of law in the Czech Republic, and it can adjust it, it can adjust the valorization framework, it can change the laws. And they're trying to tell us that if we sleep here for three days, it's the only way to save $600 billion. And that there's a shame. I said - and how did the damage come about? By fulfilling the law? And who's the pest? Those old people? Are we in a state of war with retired people? That's what we've been talking about all along, maybe some of us have even noticed. I believe that some of the government coalitions know that this is wrong, and I am deeply convinced of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u231	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact was made by Mrs Peštová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u232	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just want to follow up on Mr Vondráček. That's exactly what I said here, yes, that's the impact study that's part of the ordinary legislative process, because it's not just the reason message, the reference report, but it's the impact study that doesn't just come out of the maximum that the minister said here, but there's the minimums, there's actually variations, and there's some kind of shootout that tells you what, in quotes, it's not a shame, but what the cost of that could be associated with it. And that's all I've been saying and what I'm missing, what's not in it. And that's why if they went into the ordinary legislative process, we could forgive ourselves for all the constant questions we asked and ask for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u233	I also thank you for keeping time. I am no longer registering anyone else with a factual remark, so we are getting into a debate. I'm just pointing out that the House voted for two or five minutes, so I'm gonna ask the MP if he wants to use the whole ten minutes at once? [[Yes, I do.]] So please, your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u234	Thank you very much. I would just like to start by saying that I feel reduced to my rights as a speaker because the time limits have been reduced to two or five minutes, and I think that it is simply not only not done, it is not appropriate, but it is also contrary to constitutional principles and how democracy should work in the Czech Republic. Yesterday it was exactly three years when the first three patients with covid-19 symptoms were confirmed in the Czech Republic or the day before yesterday. They didn't know what the disease was. We all remember those apocalyptic shots of doctors in yellow suits. The borders began to close, the planes stopped landing, the companies interrupted production, people stayed at home. They started wearing drapes. Everything that happened, we saw on TV. News channels and servers were tearing up ratings records. Everyone was actually watching what was going on. The Chamber of Deputies even met in half the number of covid times, and we all had our drapes on. And when I drove to the Chamber of Deputies three years ago in the middle of the covido situation, because I was in the middle of the meeting, I did not meet a car in broad daylight between Ostrava and Prague. It was a real dystopian look. That was the first time there was talk of a state of legislative emergency. All the legislators began to see him as something special, really marginal, like a kind of insurance policy, where we can quickly pass laws in difficult times and help citizens. We have learned how to approach a state of legislative emergency, and we have helped people and companies in need through this legislative instrument at a time when we really did not know how long and in what intensity this disease will be with us. And now we have a situation of legislative emergency here in a completely different situation. We are in a situation where we only need to approve something quickly, within a few hours, we are not helping anyone with this state of legislative emergency, only to fill this government's budget. We are at a time when the economy works, companies try to survive despite inflation, when people normally go to work, are not at home for forced sickness, children go to schools, we don't wear drapes. So what are we doing with this state of affairs or what are we actually following this state of legislative emergency? Interests of citizens who really need to discuss the law on the reduction of extraordinary valorisations quickly? Is there a disease attacking our citizens, a natural disaster? Are we being reduced to our rights or even to citizens at risk? All we see is that this government, which is unable to combat inflation, needs funding for the state budget at the expense of the elderly. I'm really sorry, because the finances are of course important, but the gambling is worse right now with citizens' confidence in the rule of law. How do we then want to convince citizens, for example, about pension reform? Will they trust us politicians when I think we're re-retroactively changing the law at this point? I don't think there's much we can do about June's valorization anymore and that we crossed the imaginary red line. In the current Pension Insurance Act, the valorisation increase in pensions is set as a mandatorial automaton. Once the conditions are met, current seniors are entitled to an increase in pension. The conditions for this were actually met due to large inflation. And the Constitutional Court has already stated several times that if a law arises, even if that law is not yet effective, such a right cannot be withdrawn unilaterally. But we'll see. This government relies too often on the Constitutional Court. The state of legislative emergency, which I believe is illegal, will be resolved by the Constitutional Court. Retroactive amendment to the Pension Insurance Act? Well, they'll sort it out, respected lawmakers from the opposition, Constitutional Court. Withdrawal of legal law under the Rules of Procedure of Members to shorten twice five minutes? Well, that's settled by the Constitutional Court, of course. So who's in charge here at the moment? Government of the Czech Republic or Constitutional Court? A responsible government would use this argument only in a very extreme situation, but in three cases directly during the hearing of this law? A responsible government would watch over the legislative process. The responsible government, if it were the budget, the public finances, would not have disrupted the EET, which brought 14 billion into the state register. And I could go on like this, windfall tax and stuff. [[17,00 hours]] What I continue to regret is the irresponsible distribution of society. This government is not even hiding it anymore, and it says, if we are legally valorizing pensions, there will be no more, for example, families with children, to raise parents. Everyone knows that the ongoing pension system is based on demographics, and this government wants to cancel the kindergarten fee, the discount on husbands, they're hanging out with a parent raise, but it promises to actually do that someday. And let me just remind you that we have this legislation in the House since 6 June and we will discuss it at an emergency meeting next week on 8 March and we have tried to include it several times at the House meeting. You can join us and raise the parent or make amendments. Where to get it? So, in front of me, my colleague, the finance ex-minister Alena Schillerová, was talking about where to get the money. You know, there was a change in the government's programming statement yesterday. I remember when you were talking about the first one you came up with before the House as the one the train wasn't going through. You said - I quote: We stand firm behind this government's programming statement, and we will try to fulfill our ambitions. And yesterday, there was even a sentence from the Prime Minister's mouth - I quote: Our aim is to ensure that the stabilisation of public finances does not deteriorate the situation of citizens who cannot do without support from the state. That's what the Prime Minister said. And in this situation, Prime Minister, the seniors are included. You're making their life situation worse for them by this law. Some cannot find another job, they have no place to take, they are dependent only on social reconciliation in society and solidarity. And you're the one who's had a lot of confusion with this law. As a government, you can't manage state finances, you can't manage social services, you have job offices falling apart, we're missing better medicine. On the contrary, thanks to the Service Act, you want to put your friends in the state administration, to control the media's public service with a budget of CZK 9 billion. You're after the number of ministries or the number of Vice-Presidents of the House, you're after the authorities. Every day we read it, who put who where and how much. Unfortunately, you're not a government for people. You're a government whose members only think of themselves and their friends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u235	Thank you for keeping time. The next application is Mrs Peštová. Madam, please. I'm gonna ask you if you're gonna use two or five minutes? [[Yes, I'll use two or five minutes.]] Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u236	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Of course, because I had my contribution much longer, so I tried and tried to shorten it. This government was to anticipate and act out of precautionary measures in 2022. Some of my previous speakers mentioned inflation here, and I mentioned it here, which was over 18 percent in September, and in essence the months that followed, it was a plus minus percentage up, a percentage down. It kept holding the surface. Back then, it was 18 percent in September. Today, in January, it was 17.5 percent. So if the government, or the government, I say, should anticipate, should have prior caution and should have already acted in that it should have put this amendment into a proper legislative process to save ourselves what followed today or not only today, but also the previous days. Instead, this government, of course, even though it knew that it had a big zero in its budget for this item, waited until... let's call it after the election. It's very irresponsible of her. And not only after the election, but, of course, after the data of the Czech Statistical Office came out, and only after the 10. 2. began to act. And she began to act with her force method, she put it in an interdepartmental commentary procedure, as I mentioned several times, for two days, she had been tweaking the comment points. We don't know how the proper settlement procedure was going, which is there with the settlement table, because I don't have it, because it went through Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, per rollam, the government approved it. We all identified that legitimate expectations had already been created there precisely because the data was issued by the Czech Statistical Office 10. 2. and, based on this legitimate expectation, it has already been established there. I mentioned on one show that it's like we're playing third-third of hockey, and in the last period, someone changed the rules of the game, and the referee started whistling differently than he whistled all the time. I'll be back. Here were cited constitutional findings. I've prepared a constitutional find, too. You quoted here 55/10. I was more inspired by a constitutional finding of 53/10, which, of course, solves a similar case, except that it was attacked in a different way. I'm not gonna film these individual provisions here, I'm just gonna remind you of what's going on with the budget. It is the responsibility of every government to build a bill on the state budget based on the laws in force, which was based on the regulations in force, but it put a zero in that budget, and in me it evokes the idea of why it put a zero there, even though the Minister here defended himself by counting on it to be plus minus 15-20 billion. But why didn't they put the 15-20 billion there? Why did they put that zero in there? Well, because they were counting on them to make an amendment to this law. They figured maybe, I don't want to blame them, but maybe they didn't count on going this hard. Maybe they wanted to put it in the interreort before the data came out, but unfortunately they didn't release it until after the data was released. And I continue. And in the event that it considers it appropriate to make their changes in time, it shall in due time implement its authorisation to submit an appropriate bill through which it would have achieved the required changes. Even if, as a result of such delay, the State Budget Act had not been adopted before the first day of the financial year, it would not have been an exceptional circumstance in itself, since the consequences of this situation are foreseen by the regulation of the budgetary provision within the meaning of Section 9 of Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws. So if they were to do, like I said, out of the precautionary procedure, predict ahead of time what was going to happen with the budget, and put it in the proper legislative process, and it wouldn't have been the proper trial, which means it wouldn't have come to the Chamber of Deputies, maybe it would have come to the Chamber of Deputies, maybe it would have been in the Senate by now, but it wouldn't have met those days, so we would have gone to the budget provisional, and it could have been settled. Unfortunately, this didn't happen. And I didn't like one other provision in the discovery, but I did. If the legislative procedure is to fulfil not only the function of voting but also the guarantee of free political competition, the possible requirement of rationalising it in relation to the negative consequences of possible obstruction by a parliamentary minority - which we are - cannot be implemented by enforcing the state of legislative emergency by the government and the associated parliamentary majority. In a situation where the government has not been able to articulate its reasons other than the agreement of the opposition to its own bills, or the need to adopt laws before the beginning of the financial year, because of which the draft state budget has already been submitted, it would actually mean admitting proper legislative procedure, including its individual stages, merely the importance of the facade of parliamentism, which has no meaning and which can be limited at any time when, in view of its time aspect, the current majority appears redundant. [[Is he coming out?]] [[Parliamentaryism]] However, with this concept of legislative procedure, as mentioned above, the Constitutional Court does not fundamentally identify and sees the proper legislative procedure as a guarantee of free political competition and, within it, the rights of the political opposition. [[17.10 hours]] Let's face it, the state budget is revenue and expenditure. All laws affect the state budget. It is revenue and expenditure, so if the ruling coalition needs to quickly change a law that affects revenue or expenditure, it would proceed in a way that it would constantly declare a legislative emergency in order to overwhelm the opposition so that it cannot use its rights to prevent what it does not like or, respectively, the law with which it has a problem, so it does not have the opportunity to make its arguments in the ordinary legislative process. And that's wrong. That's wrong. That's what I'm seeing, or I'm seeing that it's been broken, and not just here in the way I see the retroactivity, like I said, I see the retroactivity, I see the predictableness, and at the same time there was no precaution. And, of course, after what's going on in the Chamber of Deputies, how you're fighting, and how you're trying to speed up the time to get to the time that's burning, that's what 22. 2. (?), that's very sad for me. I'm ending my contribution to give the next one a chance to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u237	Thank you so much for keeping time. The next application is Mrs Balaštíková. And I also have to ask the honourable Member if she wants to use ten minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u238	ano, Madam President, I want to use ten minutes. So hello, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are gathered here to discuss the future not only of current citizens at retirement age but also of those who expect it in a few years. And I have a very negative attitude towards the decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, in which she declares a state of legislative emergency, when it is definitely an abuse of the state of legislative emergency, because the conditions for declaring this state in my opinion have not been met. And even my previous speakers draw attention to that. And so I am very concerned about the current Government's pension procedure and also related communication towards citizens. I believe that there is not only an immoral act, but partly a threat to human rights. From the point of view of the legal side, it is clear that the legal claim to valorisation has already been established, and any amendment will be thus retroactive. On the one hand, the government is defending itself by arguing that our country is facing economic damage. But I didn't notice any of the government officials speaking and informing us that the Czech Republic was facing bankruptcy. It should be noted that the government is not taking any constructive steps towards a long-term increase in revenue to the Treasury and, for example, the corresponding tax reform is only seen in visions and signals. Moreover, in taxes, the government collects extraordinary profits thanks to inflation and thus has sufficient funds. It is also important to draw attention to the fact that in the case of pensions it is insurance, which is a purpose-oriented compulsory payment. The government should not treat it as a tax return where, according to the theory of financial law, it has a free hand in terms of use. The current remuneration of pensions is primarily to ensure security for all citizens of our country. Any violation of this system may lead not only to negative socio-economic impacts on the most vulnerable population, i.e. pensioners, but also to a permanent breach of trust in the rule of law. And that state should be the guarantee of some kind of certainty. The government is pulling the rescue brake and trying to reduce June's extraordinary pension increase. It argues that intergenerational solidarity is no longer valid, and many politicians have reservations that they do so at the last minute and still in a legislative emergency. The government is trying to rely on the arguments that, due to rocket prices, pensions are increasing disproportionately quickly, and because of automatic valorisation, seniors are the only protected population, while others are poor. On the other hand, there are arguments that the government had to count on extraordinary valuation since the autumn of last year precisely because the conditions of growth were precisely defined by the law. At the same time, the government did not expect extraordinary growth in the state budget, nor did it attempt to change the calculation in advance. Instead, they do so only after they know exactly how much pensions they will grow. However, it is not entirely clear whether pensioners are already entitled to the addition. Moreover, the government uses a legislative emergency institute to deal with extraordinary and unforeseen events to enforce change. And since the government does not want to risk failing to approve a reduction in pension valorisation in the House, it has therefore reached the conclusion of a legislative emergency. The amendment could thus be discussed in an accelerated mode and with the limited appearance of legislators. Which is actually happening. Of course, this is not possible and this step can be considered unconstitutional. It is not possible to declare a state of legislative emergency, however it pleases, or so that something can be pushed forward. Under your rule, the legislative emergency becomes a new normal. And the weirdest thing about the whole thing isn't so much what's going on at all, but the most interesting thing is timing. Of course, the government knew that it would have to valorize pensions in June and that it would cost about 34 billion. The government knew that given the state of public finances, it would have to raise taxes, because what we're going to talk about when it comes to putting holes in the budget is always the easiest way to reach into the citizens' wallets. The government also knew that it would have to come up with at least parametric changes to the pension system. She knew for a long time. So why are we all just finding out now? The cause has a simple name: presidential choice. The government, with a series of unpopular steps, was deliberately waiting for this presidential election to end. She didn't want taxes or pensioners, which are topics that affect virtually every voter, to become the topic of the presidential campaign. And she didn't want it for two reasons. First, so that she does not record it to Andrea Babiš, and second, so as not to make the situation worse for her candidate Petr Pavel. That is why it was strictly silent that there would be no valorisation, and that is why a state of legislative emergency is now being announced suddenly. That's why it was silent that he would retire later or that the state was going to pump our wallets properly. It was quiet that the voters should not be driven to Babiš, and on the contrary, they would not be driven away from your candidate, Mr Petr Pavel. So in this world, it is very interesting to remember the moment when, after counting the votes, it was exhilarating that the truth triumphed over the false way of running the campaign. As you can see, this is not quite an accurate interpretation, gentlemen journalists, because the government deliberately lied to citizens, or at least did not tell the whole truth, so as not to harm its candidate. At the same time, it shows nicely how much Petr Pavel was actually a pro-government candidate, how much the government considered him to be its own, although he himself constantly defined himself against it in the campaign. That the government has led us quite well in the name of the presidential election is a fact that we can hardly do anything about anymore, but we should remember it carefully for years to come and watch, no less carefully, how the government stands up to these steps by a person whose interests the government has been leading us around for the whole fall period. In this way, Members of the Five Coalition are clearly using the Institute for a legislative emergency to enforce a matter that is not at all in a legislative emergency. They're breaking the promise they made to their constituents. They said they'd follow the law, and they didn't follow it. And this step will only make the situation difficult for those who are already quite ill today. And it is clear that Petr Fiala's government is not willing to reach into other areas yet. They convince us of that every day. You've been deceiving people, and our people know that they've been deceived. The disgusting thing is that you're trying to split up the company. You have been totally studying the European Presidency. You're an antisocial government. You lie not only to us, but mainly to our entire nation. And I don't want to be a bad prophet, because all of this always comes back in the future. And I just hope that the time when everyone understands will be pretty early. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u239	Thank you for keeping time. Your speech raised Mr Kohajda's factual comment. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u240	Thank you. Mr Minister, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond here to the words that have been said here, who is lying to the nation. Of course, the fact that the previous government here put us in brutal government deficits is true. The fact that she wasn't thinking about pension reform didn't make a single move, that's a fact. It is no surprise to the members of the former government party that pension reform is necessary. So today's scandal here, Mrs Balaštíková, through you, Madam President, offends me a little, because we are really at a point in time when we are about to encounter this state's credit opportunities, and I am really concerned that the previous government and its Members have not seen this at all, even though they have created the extreme deficits of the state budget and the run-in to the pension budget when they were giving out, buying voters by increasing pensions or giving lump sums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u241	Thank you for keeping time. And there are two more factual points. First Mr králíček, Mrs Balaštíková will be ready. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u242	Madam President, Mr Kohajda, through Madam President, you seem like a hypocrite to me because you are arguing here that our government has indebted this country in the last parliamentary term. Then turn on the tapes. The representatives of your party here said that little, that we still give little, that there is a need for more, that it is necessary to give 100 per cent to those actually traders that 110 per cent, 120 per cent. You guys wanted to give a lot more! And you're accusing us of compensating for the total closure of the economy for a covideo that was unpredictable. No one has ever met this apocalypse that was here. You're a hypocrite!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u243	Thank you for keeping time. The Member has withdrawn, so the next envoy is Mr Kohajda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u244	Thank you. Well, I'd be happy to answer that. I think I'd be a hypocrite if I told you around here. I didn't say that. I keep my mind on it all the time. Public budgets of the Czech Republic, especially the state budget, were not in good condition. If you're saying that you've spent a lot of money on a covid, that's in sharp conflict with how the Supreme Audit Office evaluated it, the completely independent institution of this state, who said that only a minimal, small, minority part of the funds you've spent went to the real aid of companies, citizens. And it was also one reason, the giving policy that was contrary to budgetary responsibility, which was the reason and the cause of inflation, which is here today. At the beginning, this was the reason why inflation rose to today's interest rate... or to today's rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u245	Thank you for keeping the time, and again, Mr králíček is reporting with a factual remark. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u246	I believe, Mr. Ambassador, that you are not telling the truth even with the SAO. That's not what the SAO was talking about. But you were the ones who told us that we gave little, that we needed to repar more, and now you're blaming us for giving something. But read the SAO report, there's talk of something else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u247	I also thank you for keeping time. Another one de facto, Mrs Peštová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u248	I would like to respond to Mr Kohajda, through Madam President. If the last government was thinking about the industry, your government isn't thinking about it. Well, look what's going on. I don't know if you're living in a bubble, but you should focus on what's going on outside the bubble. You guys did some windfall tax here, the windfall tax originally wasn't on power. Then you came up with a splash, and, in essence, now the billions that you thought would bring you didn't bring you. I asked you one question when we were in the Partie together. Where's the 100 billion, now the 70 billion you promised to find in expenses? I can't see anything yet. Yes, now you've taken the elderly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u249	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u250	Thank you very much. I was the one who said that in my speech for the opening of the ten minutes. I was here in the middle, dealing with this whole covid situation in a state of legislative emergency. All those programs that helped entrepreneurs, Antivirus, sick leave, I remember that actually the Social Policy Committee was sitting there de facto nonstop, because some programs were constantly being prepared there. This paid off in time and properly, for example, through labour offices, the Czech Social Security Administration. Those authorities have never been able to work here in a covid crisis like they are at the moment. I remember the opposition party saying even when we said, but there is no registration at all of those working on a job agreement or a work agreement, that we cannot give and compensate them and help them like this. In the end, it has, of course, been pushed through the pirát that even those who are and are working on the DPP and DPČ can draw help. And this way I could keep going, of course. The difference between actually this situation here and the covide is quite large. First of all, you promised something before the elections, and that you would spin when inflation was about 4 to 5 percent, with inflation. You have actually dealt with it in such a way that at this moment it is the triple and third highest in the European Union. First of all. And secondly, you haven't found any recipe for how to handle the public finances so far. Proof of this is one single issue that came out yesterday or the day before yesterday: 119,7 billion, the highest budget deficit after the year of government rule in the Czech Republic in the history of the Czech Republic since the beginning of 89.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u251	Time. Thank you. Another with a factual application by Mr Kohajda. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u252	I think it would also be possible to specify specifically who was the biggest beneficiary of the covido support, whether it was effectively spent, whether it was going to really specific people who really needed it, or whether it was flat and also to subjects and companies that didn't need it at all. The fact that you closed the casinos was an unpleasant thing, but why did you replace them with all the lost profits with such huge amounts? Well, that's a question that I think is very relevant. Was it also necessary to support casino operators for being locked up during the covid?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u253	So your performance brought up a series of factual remarks. So, first Mrs Balaštíková, Mr Juchelka and Mr králíček will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u254	So, Mr Kohajda, through Madam President, you cannot be serious as a lawyer. You know how it would have turned out if it wasn't even, and unfortunately, they didn't get it to everyone who had a claim. What are we fighting about here? That I hit the spot. You might be hurting, so you're trying to get personal, because that's all there is to it. Don't be mad at me if all you want to do is chat and you don't want to admit it, maybe my words have hit you harder than you thought. But I'm sorry, let's not get personal, let's not dig into the past and worry about tomorrow. What happened yesterday, we're not gonna change today. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u255	Thank you. Next with the application is Mr. Juchelka. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u256	Thank you very much. Why? Because, for example, when you have an eseróček, you give all the eseróček who meet some conditions, and they also meet for example those who are casino operators, first of all. This means that they are all measured on the same subway, no one is discriminated against in the aid, which at the time, yes, was actually flat because the economy in the Czech Republic was stopped. The damage card stood for several weeks, people stayed at home, children didn't go to school. We used to wear our masks the way I described it here. And of course, the difference between this support here and what you're up to is significant. I remember when we had a 12-minute amendment by Marek Benda, who cut gambling taxes, probably for some coalition buddy who runs some gambling or casino, or I don't know who it was for, and we're definitely going to go back to that, because there's legislation coming to us that's going to change the gambling in about three categories. So I'm curious myself about the conditions you're going to raise those taxes to from these vices, and which category, on the other hand, is going to be the one where you're going to lower it to somebody, some friend of yours, probably. So I myself am curious and looking forward to the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u257	Thank you. And another, with a factual remark, is Mr Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u258	Well, thank you very much. I would like here, my colleague Kohajda, every performance he's had for the last quarter of an hour, still falling lower and lower. I don't know if it's worthy of him, because what he said is really for suspension and thought. Please, if you don't like casinos, I don't have a problem with it, so make a bill, cancel the casinos. If you want to raise taxes to casinos, make a proposal and give them 50 percent of the taxes. But how can you say, if they're legitimate business organizations and companies that pay taxes that don't do anything illegal, and you would define when, for reasons of state safety and people's health, we shut them down business, so how would you argue that they're different from pubs, other than škodovka, how do you want to justify it? Well, I'm not... I'm not getting any ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u259	Thank you. And another, with the final in fact, is signed up by Mr Kohajda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u260	Thank you. I merely point out that the budgetary possibilities of each state, as well as the Czech Republic, are limited, that we do not have to spend what we do not have, what we do not earn, that is, what does not come from tax revenues. If we are already helping, which is certainly justified in some situation, then we should help the weakest, those who really need it. I think that if it only helps across the board because it's easier, that it can be easily paid off and administered, that's a bad reason. Help must be the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u261	Thank you. And once again, your performance raised a series of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Juchelka, Mrs Balaštíková, Mr Kasal and Mr králíček will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u262	Thank you very much. I think that we can agree on this, of course, because before the covido years that were here, really, the tooth of the budget shows it, it was just different, so it was always the budget that was under Bohuslav Sobotka's rule, Andrej Babiš was more or less balanced, there was no significant deficit, the budget deficit, it came up with the covido years. But you're a lawyer. And we're still dealing with one and the same thing over and over again, and whether we're actually in the constitutionally conformal plane of this state of legislative emergency, whether we're really here on the legal level of the retroactivity of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. And whether you, as a lawyer, are in conformity with the fact that he's bent the Rules of Procedure here for several times. And maybe instead of saying here, you're constantly attacking those things that have been explained thousands of times differently, I'd rather expect your expert opinion on this here. Are you conformed to this as a lawyer - even here, Mrs Decroix, who has come at this moment, Mr Haas, whom I see here and I respect him as a lawyer - with what has been happening here since Tuesday? What you're creating here, what you're doing, putting it in the Constitutional Court? I've been talking about this a few times. That's really what all of you here as lawyers are gonna say, yeah, he's gonna figure it out with the Constitutional Court, he's gonna figure it all out with the Constitutional Court, we can turn it over to him. Of course, we're responsible in some way, but we're irresponsible in our decisions because we're gonna turn it over to the Constitutional Court. He'll decide somehow, maybe we'll pay back the old-age pensioners with a penalty payment, but he'll be able to handle the budget somehow. I don't think so. I want to be a responsible politician, constructively positionable, and I will not vote in favour. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u263	Thank you. Next, Mrs Balaštíková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u264	I would like to thank you, Mr Kohajda, through Madam President. I really thank you for what you said. 'Cause if I just did a flash analysis, I'd have to laugh, but I feel like crying. Please play what you said and start following it. That's what we want you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u265	Thank you. And another one with a point of fact, Mr Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u266	Thank you, Madam President. I will also comment on Mr Kohajda, through you. Mr. Ambassador, you're talking about helping out across the board and not the weakest. As my colleague said, can you show me around? I'm sure you, in quotes, are helping the weakest too. But I want to ask you personally, and I'm going to put it a little personal: where were you when the covid time was? You were here when it was discussed? I've been involved in these conversations with lawyers, especially Mr. Feri, with whom we had to explain whether the virus works in the apartment and still works in the cabin, until we went to this absurdity to explain to them that it's probably infectious everywhere! So this is what we've been dealing with, so you know, from your side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u267	Thank you, and we are going back to the debate where Mrs Hanzlíková is registered. Madam, I must ask you, whether ten minutes or... [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u268	Thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to comment on the Government proposal under discussion. And I want to start by saying that I have a big problem with the fact that this proposal was tabled using a state of legislative emergency, which was confirmed here yesterday relatively to the strength, because we are in a situation that I believe does not respond to the legislative emergency from any point of view. I also disagree with the fact that there would be conditions for discussing this government proposal in a short hearing. From a factual point of view, it is unacceptable for me that a long-term legal supervisory mechanism wants to disrupt rapidly, even though it must be aware that any violation of this system by reducing it can lead to serious negative socio-economic effects on one of the most vulnerable population groups, comprising 2.8 million seniors and disabled people. It is also difficult for me to understand that the government will discuss such an important amendment, which will have a negative financial impact on such a huge group of people, in the form of per rollam. But, let it be, it was a government decision, we can have our own opinion on it, but I refuse, as a Member, to have the opportunity to discuss this serious change only in a limited time and in a short course of action. Moreover, I must say that this separate discussion of the change, which will only concern June's valorisation, despite the fact that this has been explained several times by the Minister of Labour, I consider it a non-systemic step. The solution to the possible adjustment of the valorisation mechanism should have been part of a comprehensive solution to pension reform with all links and connections, and above all with all analyses of the effects on seniors and disabled people. [[17.40 hours]] We've been watching for two days trying to discuss this bill as quickly as possible. In doing so, as I have already mentioned, the effects of the present proposal and, in fact, the other steps considered by the government can be really overwhelming for those who can least defend themselves in society. And that's because most of the seniors depend entirely on the state. In addition, the form of their consumer basket makes them more sensitive to the increase in basic food, medicines, and services. And it has been affecting social services that are very important to them lately. Unfortunately, the current actions and proposals of this government, which are aimed at seniors, cannot in any way be regarded as socially sensitive, as the five-wheelers have committed themselves to this in the programming declaration. If I can only quote briefly, it says: We will implement the necessary measures, reforms and changes in a socially sensitive way with regard to the most vulnerable members of society. Well, I'm sure this proposal doesn't match that. As I said before, the change under discussion is a non-systemic step, because the amendment only deals with valorisation in June 2023. It therefore has only one-off use and general rules under the Pension Insurance Act do not apply here. Again, I remind you that the change in valuations is so important that it must clearly be part of a broader pension reform, which will be discussed in detail in sufficient time, and consensus will be found not only by the government parties, but also with the social partners and with the opposition. But what should be incontrovertible to every government is respect for constitutional rules. And here I must return to the legislative emergency and to the fact that it can be declared truly in exceptional circumstances, where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are fundamentally threatened or there is serious economic damage. When I look at the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, there is no way that human rights and the freedoms of citizens are threatened by the legal value of pensions. On the contrary, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not apply. 10 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guarantees the right to the preservation of human dignity and personal honor and one of the areas where human dignity is tilted is also referred to as ensuring certain working and living conditions, namely the amount of invalidity or old-age pension. If almost half of all seniors are at risk of poverty in our country today, their human dignity and the fundamental task and responsibilities of the government that adheres to constitutional order are also threatened. In essence, the government claims that the exceptional circumstances are a situation where there is significant economic damage. According to the government, therefore, this means the realization of the statutory pension settlement. But here is the important fact that the government and, above all, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have long been known for the Valorisation Mechanism. And they certainly have high-quality predictions, analyses and figures that point to economic damage well in advance. Nor can it be ignored that the entitlement of persons receiving a pension to dignified financial security was the reason for the introduction of the valuation mechanism. The funds paid to pensioners by the State for a living must not lose value over time. This would result in a constant decline in the standard of living of persons receiving these pensions. What is very important is that pension reform should indeed be discussed in time and consensus should be found across the political spectrum, but, of course, with social partners and umbrella organisations. I would just briefly quote what the Czech Moravian Confederation of Trade Unions thinks about this proposal, which said that the Czech Government ignores social dialogue, sends important materials late and does not wait for union comments. A similar statement was made by the Council of Seniors. And the Senior Council is the organisation that should make the most of this proposal, because it is composed of the seniors themselves. The National Council of Persons with Disabilities also commented on this proposal that it did not fundamentally agree with the amendment of the Valorisation Mechanism, as proposed, and because it understands that the payment of pensions was difficult for public budgets, but was then to be submitted in time to be properly discussed. That's what I think, too. It is necessary to look at the fact that the amendment that we are discussing here is not just about numbers, about investigations, about economic damage, but it is about people and about the most endangered group. So much for me, thank you, and I'll give the other colleagues room to comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u269	Thank you, and another enrollment is Mr Volný. I'm also going to ask if you want to use the full ten minutes or twice five, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u270	My colleague, set them up for me even if I don't use them. But set them up for me so I can keep track.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u271	Ten or five? [[Ten.]] Okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u272	So I'd like to, I've had a pretty sophisticated speech here about 30 minutes, smart enough, as I do, then I've cut it to ten, and now I'm gonna leave this option, because I want my colleagues to get there, and I'm gonna go from a completely different case. Please, a legislative emergency, a complete nonsense in my opinion, abridged act completely unnecessary, because if we were communicating and being a little bit correct again, that was not necessary at all. But I am actually convinced, please, that this standard is vetoed by the President-elect and that it will return to the House anyway, and if there is any luck, it will not be able to make it. Why do I think the president is vetoing it, even though the article came up a little while ago, you probably all saw it, and the commentator here writes: Pavel lower growth in pensions, valorization will not veto. The government has postponed the matter to be elected. Colleagues, I can tell you that Mr. President-elect, his administration is deeply, but deeply mistaken, and I think she's been lured into a rather unpleasant trap. The government coalition at all, but it wasn't even a little bit about Petr Pavel being elected president, believe me. They didn't care whether it was the professor or Petr Pavel. They had one vision, one vision, so it wouldn't be Andrej Babiš. And they recorded it by stopping it, stopping it from discussing this burning thing just so that God forbid it didn't bring any points to Babiš. But what happened? Between the first and second round, the elected president logically began to go around regions where he didn't win, where he had problems, that means Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, and there he was shaking hands with these people, there were clouds, I believe it, retired people, and he told everyone, give me your vote, I will be your president, I will work for you, I will not let you fall. Completely legal, legitimate. I don't blame him at all. But the poor guy didn't know that in a month and a half he'd be facing a decision to actually spit in the eyes of those people he promised. It's not his fault, I'm at least blaming him, but he's being lured into such a trap by this government, and he's going to be faced with a very difficult decision to start his stage of presidential existence. I don't envy him at all, and I think that he will win the pride and honor he should have as a soldier and that he will reconsider this matter, and he will really realize what a puppet this government has become. That means that's my message. I must point out here that I, as my fellow speaker, am not comfortable with what's going on. I feel wronged in my rights because I wanted to read this to you. [[He's pointing.]] Or read it, I wanted to report it, it made me feel nice to express myself here for half an hour. Unfortunately, you wouldn't let me. So now I'm giving space to the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u273	Thank you, too. Another application is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, who was here to apologize personally. Because her son got sick, she had to leave in a hurry. So he'll be assigned to the end of the program. So, please, next up, Mr. Mr. Stržínek. And once again, I ask, Twice five or ten, Mr. Ambassador? [[I'll use ten minutes. Thank you.]] Okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to doubt that each of the Coalition Members and Members of the Government knows the relevant laws and regulations concerning the declaration of a state of legislative emergency. It is therefore not possible for any of them to regard this situation as justified and legally pure on Monday, February 20, as declared by the President of Parliament Pekarová Adamová. You're making fun of us and your constituents. Everyone must see that this announcement is purposeful and unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court has already mentioned that this extraordinary instrument cannot be used to limit the legislative procedure by a parliamentary majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position with the bill proposal and to prevent or delay its adoption. And that's exactly what's going on here. Does the government, through the President, intend to declare an emergency every time the opposition objects to the bad laws that the government wants to enforce? In cases such as pension valorisation, when the government has decided to stick budget holes in a shameful way, by robbing pensioners, we are fundamentally defining ourselves against such a procedure. I consider the attempt to address the government's poor decision in an accelerated regime by declaring a state of legislative emergency to be obvious, unethical, undemocratic, and therefore inadmissible. This is about circumventing the principle of democracy in order to promote its own unfair interests. The five-calice is so afraid of obstructing the opposition that their use is trying to prevent what is standing by all possible and impossible means. The same five-calice parties themselves used obstructions at a time when they were in opposition. In short, when two do the same thing, it's not the same thing. The concept and interpretation of the matter also change in exchange roles. Black turns white and vice versa. When the government wanted to prolong the emergency situation due to objective causes, preventing the spread of the coronavirus at the request of the authorities, the opposition at that time accused it and called it unfounded. It's a blank check that allows the government to change the parameters of 10 million people from one hour to the next, Ivan Bartoš, the chief of the Pirates. Marek Výborný of KDU-ČSL accused Andrej Babiš of wanting to hide alibiscally behind the House, and MP TOP 09 Jan Jakob of making the Prime Minister out of law and constitution a tearing calendar. Miloš He pushed out of the ODS to identify the new declared emergency status as unconstitutional. Even further in her statements, the current emergency reporter, President of Parliament Pekarová Adamová, went in November 2021. She said: I do not want to continue the trend established by the current government, when the law has been circumvented, and at the same time I respect the Constitutional Court's finding, which clearly defined the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency. For me, the rule of law isn't just a word. As has now been shown, the opposite is true. Today's ruling coalition views its failure to deal with matters on time as an objective cause of the announcement of an emergency, so it wants to push for a reduction in the valuation of pensions, the amount of which results from the law. Are you kidding me? You really think you can get away with anything? I'm sure I don't. In exceptional circumstances, the state of legislative emergency aims to speed up the negotiation of government bills in the short-term negotiations. It can only be used if irreversible or difficult to repair damage to the company's essential interests or if it is necessary to prevent real significant damage to the state's assets. Simply and simply, when there is danger or danger, we are already in danger and must act quickly without unnecessary delay. If our country is in danger of valorizing pensions, it is only for the inability of the ministers Stanjura, Jurečka and, in turn, the entire government. If our country is in need, then it's a political emergency. An emergency for a government that is fair and in the interests of its citizens. An emergency for capable ministers who obey the law and don't cure their incompetence by trying to heal the money of the weakest. The fact that the government knew about legal valorization and the fact that it had no money for it for months may be clearer than the sun. However, she took the position of a dead beetle and waited for the danger of municipal and presidential elections to pass, counting each vote, i.e. the voice of pensioners. Now she doesn't have much time until March 22nd, so she made up an emergency. And it is not up to him to defend the reasons for the considerable economic damage that the State is facing without adopting a proposal for a reduction in the remuneration pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons set out above, I consider the announcement of a state of legislative emergency absolutely unacceptable and clearly disagree with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u275	I also thank you for keeping time. Another one entered in the debate is Mr Ryba, and the same question? Twice five or ten? [[Ten.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u276	Madam President, dear Minister, dear colleagues. Yesterday I wanted to discuss in detail whether the conditions for the duration of the legislative emergency were met. Unfortunately, I was cut short on my rights, and I couldn't discuss my speech. That's right. Anyway, I'm gonna do a little insertion. The President, on a proposal from the Government, has declared a state of legislative emergency for a certain period from 20 February to 23 March this year. At this point, we don't even know which laws he wants to discuss in this extraordinary regime, or similar or extended. Today, the government wants to discuss a government bill that takes a large part of the pensioners' already statutory valorisation. However, on social networks, the Home Secretary has asked the House President, or information has appeared that he has asked the House Chair for inclusion to discuss another law, this time a correspondence election from abroad. And I ask - will this law also be discussed in a state of legislative emergency? So the opposition can't talk too much into it? There may also be some appropriate justification, so in quotation marks. Well, let's keep going. We're a little further today. And I will try to comment on the discussion of the government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, House press number 392, in a state of legislative emergency. I have prepared and appeared on Twitter an article, an interview by the constitutional lawyer Mr Marek Antoš, who stated on Twitter on 21 February - quote: According to Article 6 of the Constitution, political decisions are based on the will of the majority expressed by a free vote. The majority's decision-making takes care of the protection of minorities. However, under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, it is possible to declare a situation of legislative emergency only in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. A case where the government has not responded in time to developments that have been known for many months, and now at the last moment, and perhaps even retroactively, but let us leave that aside, trying to enforce a change of law and fear obstruction of the opposition, cannot be considered as extraordinary circumstances. [[18.00 hours]] It is good to remember that we have seen a very similar situation here in 2010, when the government wanted to reduce support for construction savings, but it was afraid that it would damage it. In the autumn elections to the Senate, it thus damaged the municipalities. That is why she submitted the proposal just after the election. I'm getting a little bit of an analogy. At the same time, however, she needed his approval to reach the end of the year. The opposition threatened obstruction, which is why the government asked for a state of legislative emergency and passed the law. The opposition Members therefore turned to the Constitutional Court and concluded that the law had not been adopted properly and therefore abolished it as unconstitutional. Today's situation differs only in one way or another. It was not yet a clear question, while today we have the Constitutional Court's decision at our disposal. Mr Marek Antoš continued to comment: If the government is really going to enforce a change in pensions in a state of legislative emergency, it seems very likely that it will run into the Constitutional Court. Which can also bring more damage, backpayments and so on. So going down this road for all sorts of reasons seems like gambling to me. End of quote. I dare, because I still have a little time to go back to one that is constantly being repeated here, that there is considerable economic damage. We've been argued here by hundreds, hundreds of billions. I really don't think so. This year, we all know it's meant to be a state, now I don't know if 34 or 39 billion, which really doesn't matter, because by the end of the year, the government can prepare a proper proposal for a change in terms of valorisation, discuss it properly in the Chamber of Deputies. This is not about hundreds of billions of crowns, but it is about a maximum of 39 billion crowns. And so it must be said that the 20 first ones should have been put in the government's budget, so we're talking about some 14, maybe 19 billion crowns. Well, that's really not a national economic waste. And I do not agree with the view that if we valorize pensions, we are causing economic damage to the nation. Indeed, pensioners do not cause economic damage to the nation. I do not agree with the view that the situation of legislative emergency is ongoing, nor with the fact that the conditions for the discussion of the House press at 392 in the accelerated negotiations are met. I even think that we are beyond the law, the Rules of Procedure of the House, which is the law, and maybe we are beyond the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Perhaps it will be decided by the court and we will have to wait for it, but I think that the House, the Members, should be the ones who take care of the legality. Who else should heed lawlessness more than the Members and the Chamber of Deputies? The ones who make it. I have always taken the view that if I want to demand something from others, I should first follow it myself. And if there is only, and we can have 50-50 conversations, the probability that we are acting or acting in violation of the law or constitution, it's a bad example for the future. For these reasons, I will vote against the discussion of the proposal in the accelerated procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u277	I also thank you for keeping time. And another enrollment is Mr. Kubíček. Mr. Ambassador, same question for the introduction. Ten. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u278	Madam President, thank you for ten minutes. I'm going to try to look at it a little differently, because we're doing a little bit of repeating here, so I'm going to look at it at the very beginning with the inflation issue. We are at the so-called stage of falling inflation, where inflation is higher than 10 percent. We're not in hyperinflation, it's in thousands of percent. This situation began to deepen during last year, as early as June. The forecast of the Czech National Bank by the end of the year was 14.1% and the forecast of the Ministry of Finance was more than 15 percent, and it was already clear that it would be necessary to put an amount in the budget of the Czech Republic to cover these increased costs. We're going to talk about how the year 2022 was going on here, how we worked towards this inflation. Of course, I consulted with economic experts, and it is not a very clear view, but let's say about two basic factors. One, the first factor - the war in Ukraine and the associated huge increase in energy prices, including oil and electricity, gas and so on. And the second thing, an uncontrolled rise in food prices, partly included in the beginning by not delivering goods from countries affected by war. However, during 2020, this inflation, which was influenced by external influences, was no longer active and affected by internal influences. It's my opinion. We're gonna argue, it's like lawyers. Two economists, two opinions. So from my point of view, the very first mistake that occurred was the rapid non-negotiation of electricity prices. What form was to be done, I would have to leave it to the government. In any case, there were two options. One was an agreement with electricity and gas providers and so on, and so on, with no additional tax being applied to them or in the form of an increased tax on excessive profits. Well, it didn't quite work out. I remember the deal about the windfall tax, where I said it wasn't quite good, and I remembered Margaret Thatcherová in 1978, where Margaret was ready to declare this tax as part of the oil product growth, but at the same time she met with the big oil product producers and made a deal, and these producers put the money into her state budget in advance with the promise of a windfall tax, and in that state budget, she had the money immediately. And if I have the right information, this agreement was also looming in the Czech Republic. They were producers of coal, oil, banks, and so on, who offered to the government in some negotiations to provide a certain amount that was somehow defined and, as I recall, a total amount of 60 to 80 billion was talked about, and they were prepared to put that amount into the state budget. Of course, you know that if you have the money at the beginning and you can work with it, you can work with it in favor of adjusting the market. We got into a situation where the budget started missing money, the money started missing because the windfall tax wasn't applied a year ago, but it was applied actually in the next year, so the money was missing somewhere in the credit market. In the current situation, it is not so easy to borrow for cheap money. And that budget is set with some parameter. We don't have a parameter, we have to save somewhere, we have to save somewhere, because otherwise we'd have to upgrade the state budget and admit it's not working out. If we were to admit it, we wouldn't have met the goals we promised everyone. That's very bad. On the other hand, we're based on taking it somewhere, and now, unfortunately, the victim has become the pension system and our pensioners. It's simple, it's cheap, it's nonsystemic, it's bad. Economists are also talking about this unsystematicness, some politicians are talking about it. And what we're going to talk about, we're having these conversations in the galleys with coalition politicians, and not everyone is conformary with that. However, it is a coalition, so it is, we will not tell each other, and some solidarity is part of the decision-making of the collective, and it is part of the opposition's decision-making. Then there's one more thing about inflation. They're two inflations to make it very clear, and we're talking to the households, and the inflation, the most affected by the price, like I said, fuel, energy, that was the number one. Then there were groceries, then it was shoes, textiles, it's also quite interesting. And it was very problematic with the food, because there were several tools. The tools could have been used. For example, it was zero VAT that would simultaneously approve the inflation. And I have to say here that I've heard this opinion here, I don't know who it was from, that actually the money that's going to be spent and falling into the system is going to save us inflation. No, it's the other way around. The consumption must be reduced, but the consumption cannot be reduced in these basic matters. And now we're talking about that group of citizens who need the basics. They need the housing, they need the heat, they need the energy, and they need the food. And then there's this little thing that comes into it. There's a couple of doctors here, she's entering into the need for the drugs, and that's not a small sum if we look at it in some way. Then we've been talking for a long time about them taking it because it's almost 50 percent of the pension. Well, I'm quite interested, because the other countries, such as Austria, France, Germany, are between 65 and 80 percent, and no one wonders. And if we had a union as strong as France, you'd have a lot of streets, 'cause they're on strike for their seniors and their retirement age. [[18.10 hours]] And then there's one other thing, because it's basic needs, the consumer basket that counts on normal households, it's a little lower than the old people 'cause it's the basic needs. And then we have two groups of old people, and they're groups of old people, where it's a couple, where somehow we can balance it out, but then we also have old people who are alone. There's a big, big problem. I know, we can argue, there's a social system, we can ask for benefits, housing contributions, but it's the hardest thing for this group. Well, if I wanted to poke, the government would sit down and raise our defense budget to 2% a year before it had to. That amount is estimated at 40 billion. Is there a war on, Minister? [[Minister Lipavský answers off the microphone from the government bench.]] Well, thank you, so it's war. Then why are we arguing about any fulfillment of economic things and things, because the reason for the assessment of conditions is war. The minister said there was a war on. Did you hear that? Did you really hear that? This is an incredible thing! Then why are we having fun? If there is a war, then here - Minister, don't shout at me, be quiet! [[Minister Lipavský - comment from the government bench.]] You said it was war. You're a representative of the government, and you said it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u279	pán, please. Please, first of all, address yourself through me, and second of all, please give me an expression on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u280	That's the Minister, I don't have to. Well, I'll get back to it - we can talk around here somewhere in the galleys. Every issue is really big, and I don't know why it would concern this group. In that case, we would have to touch on everything: church restitution, our salaries, suspension, we cannot intervene in the private sector, because wage creation is an agreement between an employer and an employee. I've been to these negotiating conditions, I've been very focused on it, and I have to say that it wasn't easy either, and supplementing and balancing the inflation has always been on the employer and trying to do it, the employer has tried to do it. The state isn't exactly trying to do that. Anyway, it's a problem. So let's see how this is going to go on and how we're going to do it. And now I've learned that we've fulfilled one of the conditions here, so then I guess my discussion about not being filled is futile. No? All of you here have heard. So we filled it up. In that case, this is clearly fulfilled and we can vote in favour of assessing the conditions for negotiations in the shortened case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u281	I also thank you for keeping time. And we have Mr Mašek's factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what I have heard here a moment ago from the Minister finally explains to me how we are acting in that shortened regime. She's not a threat, a threat to possible economies, the damage we're trying to explain in some way that it's not. It is not economic damage to pay the pensioners the right to valorisation. But we've heard from the Minister here, and he's even repeated that war will be the reason. Because the question, or the remark of my honored colleague Roman Kubíček, who said here on the microphone, is probably not quite good, that, at the same time, this government, when we are discussing in the Chamber of Deputies about, in quotation marks, as we call it, it is so, robbing pensioners in broad daylight, so the Minister said that the increase in the budget of the Army of the Czech Republic by 2 per cent one year earlier, which is an adjustment in the government's programming statement and it is the government's decision made in these days, so the reason is war. Minister, we're not really at war, or if we're at war here, if we're at war here, Minister, we're at war here for our seniors. And please, I really don't accept your reasoning. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u283	Thank you for keeping time. With another point of fact, Mr Feranec is signed in, Mrs Adámková and Mrs Fialová will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u284	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond too. The way I understood it, actually, a member of the government is saying another reason or a new reason for shortening the negotiations. So far, we've been based on this, and the government has put it this way, that there is actually a threat to the considerable economic damage. Now, the Minister seems to have changed, or, on the basis of some kind of meeting on behalf of the government, he says that the reason for the shortening is that there is a war. Okay. Then we have to take a different view, except that it requires the House to approve the state of war, if I'm not mistaken. And if the minister is declaring war without a state of war, it's a little, I'd say, beyond the competences he has. [[He's laughing.]] But maybe this will explain how a member of the government can declare war without approving the House of War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u285	I also thank you for keeping time. Another one with a point of fact, Mrs Adámková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u286	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I like things made clear. And I think the thing that just came out here is that they kept their mouths shut. I'd like to ask the Minister, and I believe he's telling the truth, because he certainly has better information than I do, why doesn't the state's basic infrastructure know about it? Because we in hospitals, in the event of war, are declared a state of war, we have a completely different duty than in peace. And so I ask, which date is decisive, because, as far as I know, directors and directly managed organizations do nothing of the sort. Please tell me, which date do we have to go to war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u287	Thank you, too. Mrs Fialová is ready, so please, Madam. And Mr Berki will be prepared. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u288	So to fulfill my reaction to Mr. Roman Kubíček in the debate, there's been a nice one here that's been a habit of being called here from the back desks lately. We all heard it on the left-hand side, what you said, Minister. And I don't want to be so sharp. I'm begging you, I'm begging you, come and tell us on the microphone, what exactly did you mean? Because then two days, almost three days, and we're going to spend the third night here, and unfortunately you're here alone now, because the rest of the government is somewhere else, if you'd like to explain it to us. I'm begging you so much. Please step out and tell us what you meant to correct what you were yelling behind Mr. Kubíček's back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u289	I also thank Mr Berki for his point of view. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u290	Madam Vice-President, I know that we are all tired, I know that sometimes it causes communication discomfort among the individual. I know the Minister isn't supposed to yell at whoever's standing here, but I think it's pretty obvious to everyone what the Minister meant by that. That he didn't mean that we were in a state of war, that he didn't even shout. He was merely stating on the basis of the remark about the two percent in defense that there is a war in Ukraine. I hope no one is questioning that, and that everyone - please don't yell at me again. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Thank you. All I'm saying is that he responded to the two percent that, in my view, he clearly meant the reaction that there is a war in Ukraine and that all European countries are now logically investing in defence, as they are preparing for an unpleasant situation. That's what I think he meant. And please, let's stop twisting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u291	Thank you. Your performance raised further factual points. Mr Kubíček, Mrs Adámková will be prepared, then Mr Brož and finally Mr Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u292	Well, thank you for your word. I've been giving a pretty emotional lecture here, just saying, and the minister said so. Come say it on the microphone, don't hide behind it, come tell us. I don't have a problem with that. And you didn't say there's a war in Ukraine. We heard it very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u293	Thank you. And Mrs Adámková, please. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u294	Thank you for the floor, gentlemen. I believe that every minister is competent enough, otherwise he would not be in that place to defend what he either says or shouts. So please, without mediation, Minister, either you were only thinking in part, or it was some kind of glossa, it could all happen, but I would like to clarify the deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u295	Thank you and please Mr Brož on the factual point to which he is registered. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u296	Thank you. I was very interested in the situation. I'm not that tough, I know the Minister probably meant differently, even though he should be here. But it showed how the current government communicates. Another fellow Member said what the Minister meant. For three days here, all we can hear are references to the minister, whom we would very much like to see right now, for legislation that we just don't see here, and his colleagues are saying how it is legislatively correct. So I find it so interesting really communication that apparently ministers are not entirely prepared to speak, speak for themselves, and explain their views and opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u297	I also thank Mr Mašek for his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u298	Thank you. To Master Berki, through you. I don't think Minister Lipavský needs his press secretary here, that he should speak to the microphone himself. Other than that, the connection was clear. My colleague Kubíček here spoke on the subject, he talked about the issue of valorisation of pensions, i.e. from another economic point of view, it was a very interesting contribution, and the Minister at the time when colleague Kubíček spoke about the fact that at the same time the government actually increased expenditure by 2 per cent on arms for next year, or since 2024, forgive me, and that was a year earlier than planned, so he did, after all, it is a war, and this, of course, implements or implies consideration of the fact that we are now talking about valorization of pensions, but at the same time it is argued by the war. So I'm sorry, but I don't think those seniors are gonna be happy to hear this, and I'd like you to come to the mic and explain what you meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u299	Thank you. The Minister is now on the verdict. Please. The Minister can't report to the system because he can't register here. That's the deal, when they sign up, we give the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u300	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, not appropriate to communicate with each other outside the speaker's counter and, if anyone is speaking, I apologise to the honourable Member for that. Of course, my immediate response was to the two percent and to the reason why our government proceeded to an accelerated increase in defense spending. It's not about the Czech Republic being at war. No one's saying that. But the fact is that there has been the worst war on the European continent since the end of World War II. It is a Russian invasion, Russia's aggression against Ukraine, and our government must reflect this security development, and therefore this reflection is taking place even after an increase in defense spending. If we hadn't, I don't think we'd be responsible by the government. The way this will, of course, put itself in the context of the discussion on the material under discussion is another matter. I'm sure my goal wasn't to scare or scare anyone. And the fact that it came out of me so quickly, I apologize once more for that, Mr. Ambassador. Of course, this is not how we should communicate with each other. But about some training from political culture, I think that a really tiny remark from the ministerial chair compared to what's going on here in the overall context of the last few days is really a tiny thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u301	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is that Mrs Fialová is signed in and Mr Berki is prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u302	Thank you, I will respond to the Minister. I thank you for coming out, because when I left, you told me you didn't have to, and I asked you politely, you didn't have to respond and justify, so I wanted to remind you that you, as a government, are responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and you have to answer questions that we are asking, which you have now done. Thank you very much for that. And you had a note here about how this is going. If you were to listen to our Radek Vondráček, who explained here when there was a legislative emergency, when the short-term agenda was brought up, it was also said that we were in an emergency, in case of an emergency, and that the economic losses were in some way subsequent and that the savings in other parts needed to be sought, and if we are not as the Czech Republic in a state of war, we would be able to use funds to defend ourselves. I don't want to question whether it's a good thing or not here, but I'm questioning that you're just putting weight on a bowl and taking it where you should take care of these people automatically, and you're giving us a choice, and we're constantly being blackmailed by some situation that might be threatening or theoretically possible here. I do not doubt that this is a good thing or a bad thing, I want to stress it again, I here question that there has been a really professional discussion about when and how the state of legislative emergency is to be used, and we believe that we are not really in it. So just to understand the context, as Mr Kubíček meant, for example, because we listen to the debate quite carefully and we are interested in how you feel about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u303	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Berki is signed up for a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u304	Thank you. I just want to say again, I understand we're all a little tired. So please, before we get here, let's think about how we're gonna say things. I didn't go as a spokesperson to the minister, I just went to show that I'm listening, too, and that I understood it differently at first good than you did. So please don't just come back as an impression that I've come to attack or that the Minister can't speak alone, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u305	Thank you. Mr Kubíček is signed up next with a point of fact. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u306	We kind of lost our emotions a little bit. Thank you for the floor. It's just a little thing. I know it's a little emotional, it's off. We're fighting for retired people in some way. On the other hand, the war in Ukraine, it's all very clear. But nevertheless, Minister, I'm an ex-military, I've been flying fighters. Were you in the army? All I'm saying is that war is a word that really sucks for these people. I was glad I didn't have to fight, and I don't envy those people, I don't envy the soldiers, but above all, I don't envy the civilian population. Anyway, we're not talking about where the money was taken in any way and that the old people were taken and put into the defense budget, so I didn't mean it. I was talking about increasing, even with some need, the amount, and at the same time, we can't bail out our pensioners with the necessary amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u307	Thank you and we are going back to the debate where Mr Berkovec is registered. Mr. Ambassador, for starters, the same question: will you use two times five, or would you like ten? [[Two fives, thank you.]] So ten. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u308	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice late afternoon. You know, I'm a journalist, so when I was preparing my contribution, I thought of it as an imaginary article. Every article should have a headline. My headline is a big retirement heist. And, of course, it's got subtitles and headlins. A big retirement heist that wasn't really known about, 'cause every time actors plan a robbery, they don't talk much about it. Now we can watch her live here in the House on the third day, not only in broad daylight, but also in the second night. So allow a few reflexes, because I'm the journalist, from the press or from the media. Headline first, Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic. And here I would like to thank the journalists from podcast I asked myself, yesterday at 13.05, an interview with engineer Lenka Desatová, President of the Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic. So very current. What did it say? According to the law, it is clear, Mrs Lenka Desatová says that on 10 February the law was fulfilled, so the increase is logically due to the elderly. [[18.30 hours]] The Council of Seniors has long pointed out that the current setting of extraordinary valorisation is not such that it should be more than one year. Probably the law makers didn't expect inflation so high that the extraordinary valorisation should occur several times a year. The valorisation is calculated only from the percentage, and thus the scissors were extremely open between low-income and high-income seniors. We've been pointing out the need to change that. She further said: I understand the Government's approach in a way, but I cannot agree with it, just because the government has declared several times that the change of rules will not affect the June valorisation. We have long pointed out that something needs to be done about it. If we talked about this with the Minister in March or April - in March or April - he had time to adjust the rules by December. It bothers us that it's at the last minute. And he adds, when we talk about help: You are right, more direct help can always be greater when we talk about direct help. You give it to whoever really needs it. We have proposed to follow income poverty. This concerns 300,000 people. Last year, according to Eurostat, it was CZK 14,500. In the Commission on Fair Pensions, Mrs Danuše Nerudová was referred to as a minimum pension; it was about 10,000. Minister Jurečka agreed to this. It would be an acceptable formula for us. And I also add, as the Senior Council, we accentuate increasing the age of life in health. If your population gets old and sick, you can increase your retirement age as you want, but you won't double the number of workers. So many senior councils, then. Headline's second, Reasonable Law, i.e. the Reasonable Law Platform, November 9, 2020, Lawyer's Log. The title of the legislative emergency must not become a new normal. The social situation created as a result of the covid-19 epidemic in the spring of 2020 required an extraordinary public response, including extremely rapid responses... a state of legislative emergency, and a legislative one. However, even then, the Reasonable Right Platform pointed out that, even in a state of legislative emergency, it is necessary for Members of Parliament and the public to have at least the minimum time necessary to study, assess and possibly oppose draft legislative proposals. Unfortunately, as it turns out, both the government and Parliament continue to practice in which draft laws are presented and discussed in a state of legislative emergency only where public authority has been available to prepare them for at least six months. It is necessary to warn them as strongly as possible before such a procedure. I would also like to add that the Reasonable Law opinion platform is an independent expert group of lawyers operating in various fields of law in practice and at the Academy. Their aim is to provide the Government, Parliament and other public institutions with a professional opponent of bills and other regulatory measures. And at the end of the article, I'll take one demonstration. In view of the aforementioned Members of the Reasonable Right Platform, the executive and legislative authorities are calling on them, even in the current situation, to proceed to deviations from the standard procedure for the creation and adoption of laws with the greatest restraint and knowledge of the risks posed by such derogations. The state of legislative emergency must not become a new normal in the legislative process, whether the rules of insolvency law or other rules. So that was headline number two. And at the end, allow a personal reminiscence, which, of course, has something to do with it. In 1991 the Czech Republic was visited for the second time by an excellent British journalist, humorist, dramaturgist, entertainer, host of Sir Peter Alexander Ustinov. At that time, I was playing an active amateur theater and we rode around the world festivals and I had the pleasure of shooting an interview with Sir Peter. He then invited me to the Smetana Theatre and to an invitation to his cartoon because he was really, or was a great humorist, so he wrote me a dedication: Stanislav, a young actor who will also be an old actor. And that's what's going on here, if I use the theatrical word. Because those who, right and right today, expect constitutional law to give them back what society gave her, what they gave her when they were young actors, young workers and plumbers and officials, so it's just a chain, it works, it can't be disrupted, because every young actor will be an old actor. The young successful politician will one day be the old politician and will need this compensation or this debt because he is actually a creditor or a truster. Then sometimes there comes realization sobering. And it just works in human history, and it's not just in the current system. For example, at the end of last year we celebrated the 860th birthday of Genghis Čingischán. And the ancient Mongol used to take care of their parents and grandparents in those yurts, those warriors and nomads. So I would like those current young politicians, especially those young when they're old politicians, so that they can remember that they've made reasonable decisions. And I wish us all a successful day and a successful night. Thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u309	Thank you for keeping time. The next party to the debate is Mr Farhan. I'm also asking if he wants to use five minutes or even ten. [[Ten.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u310	Madam President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the debate when we are discussing the conditions for abridged negotiations. I had a speech prepared for yesterday, where I wanted to comment in detail, and actually the situation that occurred, so I was denied the opportunity to comment. And I certainly believe that I have simply been reduced to my rights by a democratically elected Member. And now, in this time frame, which has been defined to me, let me just briefly comment on some of the issues relating to both legislative emergency and the negotiation of the accelerated negotiations. The conditions for emergency or legislative emergency, so there are actually three main, these are fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, security of the state or considerable economic damage. I think, and I want to say it here on the microphone, that none of these things have been filled. The announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the negotiation of a draft law in a short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and restricts its substance. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. But what is happening now is that this extraordinary institute cannot be accepted as a normal instrument of limiting parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority. Whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption, it shall use the rules of procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure. In short, I would quote two paragraphs in the Constitutional Court's finding number 55/10. The Constitutional Order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's draft law in a shortened negotiation only on the basis of Art. 8 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war. Therefore, if constitutional order provides for such a possibility only in one case, it is clear that this is not generally possible in other situations. This is not a gap in the Constitution of the Czech Republic if the Constitutional Order knows the possibility of discussing the draft law in a short hearing. The purpose of the constitutional legal regulation of the accelerated consultation is to protect the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic rule of law. The use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is possible only if there is a broad consensus in Parliament, and I think that this broad consensus has not been given here. [[18.40 hours]] And I'm actually coming to the conclusion, because I'm actually based on what I had prepared, and here I would say that the government hasn't dealt with the demands formulated in the legislation. That has to be made clear. It did not meet requirements such as the exceptionality of a situation that is out of the ordinary course of political processes both internal and external. When the government knew about the inflation we are talking about only now last year, and its level in the second half of 2022 and January 2023, it was not until February 2023 that the situation could be described as an unexpected situation. The threat of economic loss, the damage, according to the Constitutional Court, needs to be assessed by the Prizmat of the Constitutional Law on Security and the reasons for this should be a type of seriousness consistent with the reasons for declaring a state of war. Nor can it be forgotten that the entitlement of persons receiving a pension to dignified financial security was the reason for the introduction of a valorisation mechanism. The funds paid to pensioners by the State for a living must not lose value over time, because there would actually be a constant decline in their standard of living. In fact, the current government bill is not intended to prevent economic damage, but to prevent an increase in the state's expenditure. It is intended to prevent an increase in the cost of the State. I don't see the economic damage. If, as we accept the announcement of a state of legislative emergency and abridged negotiation, then the state of legislative emergency and other shortened negotiations with the same argument as the government of Petr Fiala came forward, any law could be discussed which reduces the expenditure of the state budget. I believe that simply reducing the state budget deficit should not benefit from a legislative emergency and a reduced consultation. If there is no reason for a legislative emergency under the Security Act, it is necessary to ensure the consent of the constitutional majority in Parliament for its announcement, otherwise there is an unacceptable restriction on the rights of the opposition. However, this has not happened in this case. For all these reasons, it can be concluded that legal conditions have not been met for declaring a state of legislative emergency and subsequent consideration of the amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance in abridged manner according to my view. We are considering the relevant case law of the Constitutional Court on this issue, and first of all the meaning and purpose of the institute concerned. There is no way in which the situation can be compared to the covid crisis, which has also been repeated here. If from my point of view, and I believe that the reasons are proven to be fulfilled, because as a paramedic, there was actually a threat to life and to people. Well, I guess that's for me in a nutshell on this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u311	Thank you, too, and Mr Novák is also entered into the debate. Ambassador, five or ten? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u312	Ten. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that, as a democratically elected Member, I certainly feel that I am defending myself, and I am willing to use that word, robbed of my rights, but above all of the rights of the citizens that I represent here. And I believe that even you coalition MPs will find out someday that this is how it is. And as for now, an assessment of the terms and conditions for discussing this press in a short hearing. Well, let's name it clearly and without freaking out. It's not the first time, and I'm afraid I can see what's going on here, probably not the last time. The five-calice government has decided to make full use of its options and, according to the method, the flood is strengthening us, and it is hardening us. It's a sign that this extended after-election party, and I've been pointing out this party a couple of times, and this party is going on all the time, it's just your party, your highness. But, folks, you should realize that this party is over, that this is about the hangover you're having. And you're looking for someone to pay for your party. Unfortunately, unfortunately, you've focused on one of the weakest groups, and they're seniors. And since the election marathon is over and the next election will be over in a long time, it will really touch the money to those who have no way of defending themselves. They're seniors. And right away, so that no one can hear from it, so we'll discuss it in a state of legislative emergency, then in a short-term negotiation. The Prime Minister has asked, and President Pekarová has been very happy to do so. Well, let's remember what the legislative emergency is. A state of legislative emergency may be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. The situation of legislative emergency is announced by the President of the House on a proposal from the Government. And your five-police president was very happy to do so, without even considering whether it was appropriate or not. Well, according to the Rules of Procedure, he can be declared for a certain period of time, and that's what you've done. I got a lot of e-mails from the authorities. What's going on, why is there a legislative emergency, like if bombs don't fall on us? What are they supposed to do? The authorities themselves didn't understand what you're making here. When declaring a state of legislative emergency, the President of the House may decide, at the request of the Government, that the Government's draft law will be discussed in a shortened hearing. Well, that's what we're talking about. Why? To make the theft faster? Oh, great. In a state of legislative emergency, the House shall assess whether the situation of the legislative emergency persists before discussing the agenda. That's where you cut us off beautifully. Thank you. I didn't even get to the floor, and I remind you again that I feel like I'm being robbed and defending my Members' rights. And again, before discussing the bill, he votes on whether the state of the legislative emergency lasts. That's what you showed us yesterday for strength, that you think it takes, well, great. Well, let's move on. Thus, the procedure to discuss the bill in a short hearing does not have a first reading. He doesn't have a first reading. The President shall direct the proposal to the Committee, setting a time limit beyond which the Committee must present its resolution. Just comb it so that it cannot be discussed in plenary, so that we cannot talk about it on committees, so that we cannot comment on it. But we want, we want, it's a crucial thing. These are our Czech citizens. These are citizens who built the Czech Republic. These are our ancestors you're throwing where now? You throw them in the trash and you call them sorry, but we don't need you anymore, so what are we gonna do with you? Anyway, well, let's eat you up. That's what you tell them, and that's how they see you. Ladies and gentlemen, the government bill amending the Pension Insurance Act is not, I repeat, a law that should be negotiated at such short notice in a state of legislative emergency and in a short-term negotiation. Definitely not. On the contrary, it is the law on which the broadest consensus must be, and any change in the parameter must be the widest consensus. Not on valorization, all of it. For those who have worked for this republic all their lives have the right to a pension. And once again to all of you, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, I will count you nine coalition MPs, so I remind you all that these are people who built the Czech Republic. Among other things, probably the ones who raised you. [[18.50 hours]] Maybe some plan to fulfill their dreams that they didn't make, others want to pursue their grandchildren. Yes, those grandchildren whose parents work and bring money to the system. The money this incompetent government can't work with that he's throwing away. And if he doesn't have them, where does he reach? Well, he takes them away from those who need them most. Perfect! Seriously. In quotation marks, hat down before you reach out here for your strength 108, maybe 109, and I don't know anymore. You yourself live in plenty, you can make sacrifices, but there are people in this republic who don't have children. They don't have relatives, they don't have friends, they don't have friends. No one's gonna help them. The only one who could help them is the state. But you've decided that the state will blow them off, and the last instance will show them the so-called... no, I'm not gonna say it. You're literally stealing from them, I don't have another word, I have no word but to steal from them. That's all you do. You lower their standard of living, you lead them to misery. I've said here several times in this meeting that we have a social system here, we have a supply system here, we have some parameters here, and I asked Minister Jurečka to provide us with an analysis that will tell us OK, so if I give those pensioners a thousand crowns less, how many of them would be newly entitled to some social benefit, such as a housing benefit? Answers didn't I? Well, like from this government, I've never actually gotten an answer to anything, because this government is silent, it's got a hundred-eighty that's gonna shut our mouths, you're gonna laugh about it, you're gonna applaud it in the finals, but those people out there, those people out there, they have to live, and they have to survive and watch what's going on here. He sees it. They see how you don't give a shit about them, and as you say, you pay for our incompetence, because we don't know how to do it with money, you pay for it. That's the worst part. Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop this, please. Think about it. It doesn't matter at this point whether we're on the side of the coalition or on the side of the opposition. Let's see how these people live. Whether they're capable of abducting inflation or not. We're talking about a number 19, maybe 20 in a minute. But real prices in stores are completely different. Those people aren't even thinking about buying a roll these days because it's expensive for them. So please think about what we're doing here, and think about how you're killing us here as opposition, how you're closing our mouths. Because you don't have a salary. You, as Members of Parliament, dear coalition MPs, have a shitty mouth! [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u313	Thank you, too. Mrs Fialová is also enrolled in the debate. Madam, do I have to ask you...? Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u314	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. What can I say? I originally had the reasons why the conditions of the legislative emergency didn't last. I threw that speech away. Then she redesigned him for ten minutes tops, and eventually I didn't even get to him. I've had another speech prepared for today or for the conditions, but I'm gonna drop it here so I don't say anything about the information that's already been generated here, but I'm gonna try to respond here to what actually happened here and how brutally the House's Rules of Procedure have been raped and how much you haven't allowed us to come forward and defend these things. The whole situation - I only have a few notes to have some curriculum I've done this afternoon. That is how President Výborný defended the legislative emergency at the beginning. No government, no ministers. Some of them came down as factual remarks because we wanted to hear from the ministers what they saw in the legislative emergency. What they see in the economic damage. And you know what was interesting? That the most information we learned in the night meeting, when no one was teaching us here and there was finally some constructive discussion going on, referring to pages, explanatory reports. And the crucial information that came after our questions about why the government didn't put it in the state budget was that you were based on state 10. 2. when the Statistical Office declared inflation rates. OK. Other questions fell, why didn't you do it before, when we could all predict that this would happen. So what do you see in this state of emergency when everything suggested that inflation would simply be high? We didn't know anything either. And the vital information didn't go out until last night. Undignified at night, when I see the same faces here all the time that listen to the debate, and Minister Jurečka responded here and actually finally explained to us what you see the fundamental problem that we are facing significant economic losses, and what is mentioned in the explanatory statement that this year is 19 billion, for the next year it will be 58 billion or 53. And that's how you put it on, and they figured it'd be ten years from now, if we stayed with the current valorization mechanism, 600 billion, in a ten-year accumulation. So we've been trying to explain to him here that we're about to, ok, let's leave the valorisation mechanism here, where you change the rules during the game, and let's do it in July, and let's have some fun in the normal legislative process that we think is right, about how you can change the valorization and reduce the possible accumulation of future losses. The minister here argued that it would still be 600 billion. And I object here: we want a normal legislative process, we want a first reading, we want analysis from you with different predictions, with different numbers if the basis is this and this. And the minister told me that you needed it in July to reduce the basis of the pension from which it would then count, which is understandable. But then the numbers can't match the $600 billion you gave us here. And there are different development scenarios. You've taken a comparison between the current situation and the new proposal, but nothing else, no economic impact if it were otherwise. And that's what you're building on. And I'm gonna leave a little catchphrase here that says that you weren't really waiting until after the presidential election, because we all know that the prediction was, so if the Minister had already done those models here, then he must have known. And if in the two days that we're discussing here, it's been answered that, as the prediction is the cumulation, it had to be explained somewhere, and the government has agreed to this per rollam law. Per rollam. It's a complicated mechanism like this. So I'm sure they knew about it in advance and discussed it. [[19.00 hours]] That's why it urges me that you've really waited. And you haven't even waited with any other information that you're going to reduce your contribution to building savings, you're thinking of increasing your contributions to the social system for businessmen, you're thinking of settling some... you're going to reduce the amount for a raised child, and many others. And that didn't start until after the election. It was also here that various letters and e-mails were read. I really have this one that gives me the chills, and I still don't know what to answer. And I'm gonna ask, and I'm gonna put down the glosses. Would we be here today to discuss this briefing if you were to put a stop to it in time? Campaign money. The government, after a year, has to brag about how terrificly it's been. Come here and tell those people in the face. We're supposed to boast that we have one of the highest ceilings, but we don't have enough for your pensions. We often hear it, it won't be for your pensions. I would still understand the process if you came here to propose at the same time that you freeze salaries for politicians, that you will deal with church restitutions, that at the same time you will straighten out, that you will introduce valorisation on the mother's side, I would understand the package. But you only pick one. At the same time, you canceled the EET. I know, it was your programming statement. Cool, but I don't see much of a solution to that. We asked if you were looking for savings elsewhere. Now we know that the energy prices that have been put down are definitely not going to reach the ceiling, and there was some compensation in the budget for the difference where the ceiling went down. Where's the money? Why can't they go to retirement? Please don't do this. You still have time to come and say we'll take it back. You're right, everyone has a different idea of how to manage. You haven't even taken into account the increased income. You haven't even taken into account the fact that those seniors are gonna spend it in those stores, nothing. You've made a simple shortcut that's easier for you. By force and by bending the Rules of Procedure here in the Chamber of Deputies, you have tried to silence us and you cannot hear the fundamental arguments. It's about seeing who wants to run our state and state finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u315	Thank you, too. And another one entered in the debate is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Madam, let me ask you - ten or five?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u316	Yes, Madam Vice-President, please take ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u317	Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, my speech may be a little longer than I originally planned, because I applied to the debate yesterday, or I was enrolled in a legislative emergency debate, but according to the President of the House, there were too many of us. And she probably didn't like it, so she decided to just cancel the debate and cut it short on rights not only for me but also for my colleagues who were enrolled in the debate. We are now discussing whether there are conditions for an accelerated revision of the law to take money from pensioners in the summer. If the government hadn't embarked on this suicide mission, they would have been getting about a thousand more on average. And this is to be a threat to the state that requires a legislative regime used, for example, during a wartime period. Yes, the Rules of Procedure envisage a legislative emergency and a shortening of the legal process, but only in a very exceptional, more precisely exceptional, situation. If you blamed the serving President Zeman for moving on the edge of the constitution, he's testing what else he can afford, provokes and exceeds his powers, so are you. By force, you're trying to test the limits of what you're going to get away with. You're twisting legislation, you're squeezing the constitution, you're trying civil society. You're doing exactly what you were condemning elsewhere. That you wouldn't give notice of unconstitutional negotiations from us, from the opposition, I can understand that. However, your actions are falsely resonated across the professional public. How many other legal experts are there to convince you? It was said several times that Minister Jurečka spoke with constitutional lawyers and they assured him that this could go through. The problem is, the media, as far as I know, haven't been able to find these people. I have not noticed anyone who would say that the government's progress is in order and that it has no doubt about its constitutionality. I'm really sorry that we have to go through negotiations in this way. Surely you will say how bad we opposition are, that we are sharpening and delaying. Dear colleagues, if you hadn't come up with nonsense, there's no reason for us to obsess. It is our duty to protect citizens from the behavior of this government, which brings chaos, that it is unable to control the country. All he can do is punish his citizens for his mistakes. You don't know where to tie the cocks, where to plug the holes. Your budget's still leaking. How is that possible? Did it occur to you that maybe you're doing something wrong? We have already discussed the reasons why this approval is inappropriate in the runaway, or my colleagues have spoken here. Obviously, you're not doing anything about it, and you're doing your own thing. You've got your hundred and eight, and you're gonna have to deal with us somehow. But it's not just what's going on here. The point is, you despise the whole company, you act out of a position of power that you climbed up to at the cost of creating a diverse five-calice blind man. It can be said that he was held together by a common enemy - and this was the beginning of the entire coalition project Babiš. People voted for you because you created a black and white world. But it's falling apart, along with the way you do one step at a time. You went out as ambassadors of light, now you're releasing black smoke clouds week after week. Today's debate on the rape of the Rules of Procedure can become a precedent for your future attacks that you supply to the public. Despite the copy, you can take it in case of cancellation of support for building savings, tax increases, pension reform as a whole and so on. There are a number of balloons you've released, and I'm no longer the only one who doesn't know whether or not they're still flying. That is why we will use all the instruments we have, including the examination by the Constitutional Court, to prevent such things once and for all. We cannot accept the fact that you will go around standard procedures whenever you are attacked, and you will declare a legislative emergency as on a running belt. The normal legislative process, i.e. the approval that we have set up in the Rules of Procedure, can only be circumvented if it is really necessary and there is an unexpected danger. But there was no such thing. You argue with the state of public finances, the war in Ukraine, the energy crisis, inflation. But these are things we've known for months, in some cases more than a year. It's nothing that falls from the sky without warning what happens day to day. In such cases, there is no reason to ignore and circumvent normal democratic processes. [[19.10 hours]] We've known about extraordinary valorization for months. If the reasons did not arise in January, it was clear that this would happen in February. All the more so, it was time to prepare and take action before 10 February. We could talk about it and find some acceptable compromise, or take proper action and prepare the state register for it. Putting out a situation when it's ten past 12 is the worst thing you can do. You're disparaging the legal certainty that people have. The whole process that the novel is going through is very hectic. On Wednesday, February 15, the government was informed about the amendment, but it has not yet had the final text on the table. It wasn't in eKlep until Wednesday night after the government meeting. By Friday, the other resorts were able to comment on this in a commentary procedure. On Monday, February 20, at a distance, per rollam, the proposal was approved by the government so that we could discuss it now. This is indeed a pace that does not fit the situation that could have been prepared for months in advance. It's typical of sewing too hot a needle. Cause - definitely government incompetence. And this is just wrong. There's no serious reason beyond the incompetence of the whole thing. There's no way we're talking about some kind of emergency and a threat to the state. It is a very dangerous behaviour, because there is a risk that the regimes of legislative emergency and reduced action will be overused whenever there is a problem from the opposition, and so they will approach it. Therefore, on principle, we will and must defend ourselves in this practice. So let me sum everything up at the end of my speech. In the proposal for a law amending the Pension Insurance Act, the Government has not dealt with any requirements that are enshrined in legislation for a legislative emergency or a reduced consultation. This is not an emergency situation, there is no threat of economic damage, certainly not one that the Constitutional Court has been able to accept in previous verdicts. At the same time, the security of the state was not significantly threatened or the rights and freedoms of citizens were not threatened. Nor can it be forgotten that the entitlement of persons receiving a pension to dignified financial security was the reason for the establishment of a valuation mechanism. The funds paid by the State to pensioners must not lose value over time. It is therefore a question of how, for many years now, the established mechanism could have caused the State extraordinary and considerable economic damage to the payment of means of living for the lives of the people at risk, to groups of inhabitants. In fact, the current government bill is only intended to prevent an increase in the state's expenditure. The government does not collect a constitutional majority in order to obtain legitimacy for its proposal, has not carried out a proportionality test, so legal conditions have not been met for the negotiations of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act in the shortened negotiations. If another government had done something like this, the existing five-calice would argue as much as we would. I therefore appeal now to the government to refrain from its actions. It is senseless, unconstitutional and has no legislative support, and I will therefore vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u319	Thank you, too, for keeping time. And please, to the next counter, and that is Mr. Brož. Let's just load two apologies. Mr Milan Feranec has been apologizing since 6:30 for health reasons and Mrs Schillerová Alena since 7:00 for work reasons. So please, and you, five or ten? [[Ten, thank you.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u320	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have a bunch of points prepared for this discussion, which I will, of course, cut short, even to get to the next speakers behind me. I didn't get to the show yesterday, today's performance is shortened, so it's really complicated, and as has been said here several times, of course I feel damaged and limited on my rights, but there's nothing I can do about it. At this point, the decision has been made. I'm going to focus on one of those aspects, so I'm going to try to pick something out here, and I'm going to remind you of what we're based on. I know we've heard it many times, but it's definitely an important thing, and it needs to be repeated all the time. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, it is true that, in exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are threatened by significant economic damage, the President of the House shall declare, on a proposal from the Government, a legislative emergency. I will focus on the economic damage that the government is defending, on the one hand, in an emergency situation, and now, in fact, in short conduct. The government is arguing with this. There is economic damage, but none of the government officials have told us that our republic, our country, would be in danger of bankruptcy. Moreover, the government is not taking any constructive steps towards a long-term increase in the revenue of the state register, such as corresponding tax reform. All we can hear is signals, reflections, thinking, in all sorts of ways. Indeed, it is in taxes that the government has received unprecedented funds thanks to inflation. We think, and I personally think, that ensuring adequate growth in pensions can therefore not be a problem from our point of view. I chose one thing, a lot of people wrote to us, I could quote lawyers here who are expressing themselves, but I was interested and I would like to focus on what Mr. Václav Krása, President of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities of the Czech Republic, wrote in my statement. I'll take just one part of it, this is Minister Jurečka, he's involved, he'll be quoted. I did not understand the procedure of Minister Jurečka, who called on citizens to apply for early retirement in the autumn, because they have an extraordinary opportunity to obtain it under much more favourable conditions. What happened? About 100,000 more people applied for early retirement. The Czech Social Security Administration can't even handle the pressure of applications. However, it is certain that there will be a huge increase in pension expenditure, but above all, it is a completely unfair thing. Difference in the amount of early pension granted before 31. 12. 2022 and confessed after 1. 1. 2023 can be up to CZK 2,500. Here the government could intervene quickly, perhaps even consider legislative need. But since it was before the presidential election, she didn't have the courage. Such great damage would be prevented, but especially great injustice. For those of you who may not know what's going on. In October 2022, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs issued a press release where the Minister is quoted directly. And now, to be clear, I quote the beginning of the report. Asking for early retirement this year can be more advantageous than waiting for next year. For seniors who are entitled to an old-age pension in 2023, it may be better to apply for early retirement this year without payment. The reason for this specific situation is the high valuation of pensions that took place this year. Differences can be in the order of thousands of crowns a month. When someone asks for early retirement this year and wants to continue working, it is possible. As regards pension payments, the past period was very specific. And Minister Jurečka says: We have reviewed all pensions three times this year in response to the current situation and we are counting on further increases since January. This also brought about a rather unusual situation where it may be advantageous to ask for early retirement in advance, said Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. It is therefore possible that it will be more advantageous for a number of people to apply for an old-age pension this year, and that next year they will only ask for the release of their payout. Other citations suggest that he specifically promoted this possibility. Directly says: An early pension application does not necessarily mean that you actually stop working, you just have to ask for a so-called pension without payout. It is therefore not necessary to leave the job if someone wants to fix the amount of a more favourable pension corresponding to the year 2022, stressed Minister Jurečka. I'm asking, what are the costs that have been incurred by the extraordinarily applying for an early pension of 100,000 people? Why didn't she - and you knew it, the government and Minister Jurečka knew that these damages would happen, that it was an unfair thing, that it was not okay. And you haven't announced a state of legislative emergency. Perhaps at that moment we would agree with you and correct this injustice. [[19.20 hours]] And now you're coming up with something that you're saying, what's legal, what brings legal valorization, and you want to discuss it in a legislative emergency, in a short-term negotiation. Don't be mad at me, but I really don't see why. And I have to get back to what Mr. Krása wrote. By the way, it is no anonymous, but the chairman of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. This is where the government could have intervened quickly. Maybe even consider a legislative emergency. But since it was before the presidential election, she didn't have the courage. Such great damage would be prevented, but especially great injustice. So what kind of damage do you want to deal with and what kind of damage you don't want to do? I wonder, this answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u321	I also thank you for keeping time, and with a factual remark, Minister Jurečka is registered. But I don't see the Minister. We can therefore go to the other applicants, and this is Mrs Maříková. And I must also ask you, Madame, do you vote for five? [[Ten.]] Ten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u322	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Petr Fiala's government has been lazy, and now it would not have been able to approve a reduction in pension valorisation in the House, so it goes to a state of legislative emergency, i.e. an accelerated process. The Government is making full use of the provisions of the Law on the Status of Legislative Emergency to limit the rights of the opposition in discussing this government bill and force it to push it through. A situation of legislative emergency can only be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. However, such an extraordinary situation did not occur. In recent days and weeks, there has been no natural disaster or other emergency that significantly disrupts the state's operation. There has been a very standard legislative process so far, and if the government claims that it has been put into a time emergency during the hearing of the law, it has caused it solely by submitting the law to the House very late. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is using the argument that the State is in danger of major economic damage if this adjustment is not adopted. The fact that we have enough funds in the state budget for the valorisation of pensions and there will be no economic damage is clearly stated by the Minister of Finance himself on Sunday's questions to Václav Moravec. He has already clearly confirmed that there are no conditions for discussing this law in a state of legislative emergency. The government can't make excuses that the situation was unpredictable. The forecast of the Czech National Bank of 4 August last year predicted the outlook and development of inflation. The Czech National Bank predicted that the overall annual inflation rate would be 16.5%. In fact, then it was 17.5 percent. The Czech National Bank report from the beginning of last year said: Inflation will increase above 18 percent in the fourth quarter of this year. Jan Frait, a member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, said at the turn of last year and this year in an interview: Inflation in January will be a shock. We're in the middle of creating a new forecast, but it's probably not a secret that we're expecting a month-on-month shock in January. Annual inflation will rise from less than 16 to 18 percent. On what will this January shock be based? There is a substantial increase in energy prices. Electricity will rise to price ceilings, as well as the end of the austerity tariff from the end of last year. The impulse in food prices is relatively strong. The Czech National Bank informed the government on time, but it completely ignored the situation. In exceptional circumstances, the state of the legislative emergency aims to speed up the discussion of government bills in the shortened negotiations. It can only be used if irreversible or difficult irreparable damage to the fundamental interests of the company is to be avoided or if real significant damage to the state's property is to be avoided. Simply and simply, when there is danger or danger, we are already in danger and must act quickly without unnecessary delay. Neither is fulfilled. The government cannot make excuses for extraordinary circumstances, as it was informed in time, and the Minister of Finance himself admitted in the media that there are funds for budget valorisation. So the government exploits the state and thus conceals its incompetence. There is no economic damage... there is no economic damage to the fulfilment of the valorisation mechanism. Too legislative should only agree to the activation of the legislative emergency regime with the greatest restraint. Not only because this regime dramatically limits the parliamentary debate over the government's views of laws, but also because this regime legitimizes the situation in which the government presents to Parliament drafts of laws that have not been sufficiently discussed and whose implications and contexts have not been sufficiently evaluated. The state of legislative emergency can be abused and there is also the case law of the Constitutional Court. The most fundamental rights of the parliamentary opposition, according to the findings, include rights guaranteeing the minority participation in parliamentary procedures, rights enabling the opposition to exercise supervision and control of the ruling majority and government itself. A number of lawyers have also spoken about the fact that the government is acting unconstitutionally by discussing this law in a legislative emergency. Constitutional lawyer from the Faculty of Law of Charles University Marek Antoš said: It is not an appropriate instrument, it is an abuse of the institute. If the government feels it is necessary to address the obstruction of the opposition, which makes it impossible for it to pass laws, it should consider changing its Rules of Procedure so that it does not come into this and not prevent them from being circumvented. [[Coming]] It can also have the intensity of unconstitutionality, he pointed out that the law thus approved could be abolished by the Constitutional Court, which would cause further confusion. In his view, the government did not take steps to prevent legislative distress. The fact that I'm not doing anything and I'm not reacting, and I'm only reacting in a situation where there's a need to react quickly, so it doesn't justify using this extraordinary device. There are no extraordinary circumstances, Ondřej Preuss thinks, as well as a constitutional lawyer. A legislative emergency must really be based on extraordinary circumstances, which is not here. The situation is not extraordinary because it was known in advance. Zdeněk Koudelka, a constitutional lawyer, said: I consider the announcement of a state of legislative emergency to be impossible because it is intended for things that come suddenly. For example, floods will come, and their consequences will have to be dealt with quickly. But the fact that we have record inflation and that certain provisions in the Pension Valorisation Act apply, the government knew all year round and could already come up with a normal legislative process and some solution in September or October. So much lawyer Koudelka. So that's the duration of a legislative emergency. Retroactivity of the law also appears problematic to lawyers. Zdeněk Koudelka said: In the current law on pension insurance, the valorisation increase in pensions is set as a mandatorial automaton. Once the conditions are met, current seniors are entitled to an increase in pensions. The conditions for this were actually met due to high inflation. And the Constitutional Court has already stated several times that if a law arises, even if the law is not yet effective, such a right cannot be withdrawn unilaterally. The high level of responsibility lies with political representation in order to consider the adequacy of the use of legislative emergency. However, the practice of the Chamber of Deputies is such that the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency are formulated very generally and interpreted disproportionately widely. The very state of legislative emergency is certainly not used exceptionally, as it should be, and with respect for both the rights of the opposition and the fundamental democratic principles governing the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u323	Thank you, too, Madame. And the next one entered in the debate is Mr Kolovratník. Ambassador, I have to ask you, too, if it's five. Ten. So please, your ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u324	So good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'm gonna use my ten minutes efficiently to split the performance into three parts. In the first part, I have to comment on my view of restricting my constitutional rights, the exercise of the legislature, the execution of the Member, in the second part, on the content of the present law, in the third part, I will try to propose a solution to you on how to get out of the matter. At the beginning of my appearance here publicly before you and in front of the cameras, I note that I was not limited to my constitutional rights, but that my constitutional rights of the legislator this week were prevented. I was prevented from carrying them out. And I'm going to base this argument on the argument. Not impressions or opinions, but arguments. I have acted in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This meeting was convened properly on the due date of 21 February in good time. I am the second day, and I can prove this and I can prove it, I started preparing for this meeting the next day, and I have prepared the arguments that I have documented, I have them at my disposal, unfortunately I have no room for them today, or I have no room for them this week, and when I have listened carefully to the comments or speeches made by my fellow Members and Members on the subject of the expression and use of the state of legislative emergency, I am convinced that the arguments and topics that I have prepared have not been mentioned here. [[19.30 hours]] It is only by illustration that I can mention the document to which I have worked, the Constitutional Court's finding of 1. 3. 2011 marked Pl. The ÚS 55/10, which, at the outset, illustrates quite clearly the introductory legal phrase that representatives of the parliamentary opposition, which is often composed of representatives of political parties who do not participate in the exercise of government power in numbers, usually find themselves in a number minority, must be allowed, in view of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the protection of minorities, to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights in legislative procedures and must not be arbitrary - and I underline this - to do whatever it is impossible to perform the above mentioned, for democracy the irreplaceable function of the parliamentary opposition. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I have ordered a legal analysis for which I have spent my funds, and I can document this, not my personal funds, but the expert funds that we as Members have at our disposal. In this analysis, I had to work out similar illustrations from surrounding countries, from Slovakia, Austria, Germany and so on. On Tuesday of this week, when the meeting began, I duly submitted to the debate, I was not informed when and how the government coalition would end the debate. And you know that yesterday, in the evening, the debate was closed. And I didn't have the opportunity to do this speech, which I was preparing properly as a legislator, and, as I say, I spent money on it from an expert, and I couldn't bring it here. That is why I note that my rights, by the constitution given by the legislator's rights, have been completely prevented here. That's ad one. Ad two to the contents of the law, what you want to discuss, what we'll probably get to tonight or tomorrow night. I took a look at the Hospodářské noviny today, where right on the front page is an article that, respected members and members of the government coalition, speaks for everything. The carland earthquake is imminent, the company crashes. For Czech companies in the automotive industry, the biggest problem is cash flow, stability, there is a risk of money for investments associated with the emission-free future. Businesses are gonna crash, they're gonna close. To be finished in today's press. What does this have to do with the pensions, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues? Here's one of the thousands of evidence that the Czech economy is really running. The worst isn't behind us, it's not culling, but it's ahead of us. The performance of the Czech economy, GDP production, gross domestic product, will start to decrease, it will start to decline. Cars like Skoda, like Toyota cologne, start cutting shifts, start firing. And the reasoning, the equation, is simple. You all know what's gonna happen. These people won't find jobs on the market, from one day to the next, they'll be unemployed, they'll increase the demands on the social system. There will be more and more people who will need support and assistance from the state. And that has a direct connection to the elderly. Today and yesterday in these debates, it has been said many times that you yourself say, we have provided more people with a social network, we have rushed more people into the social network in our own words. And if the seniors, for whom it was the law, and so far it is, and we believe that further, will be set up an automatic insurance policy that can't make money, and logically, if the labour market starts to change dramatically, then the chances will be even bigger, even smaller and worse, so the people who go into the social system are much more and much more. They can quote from the Internet, from the networks, so it's not just our words. Ms. Šárka wrote to me: If there is a financial crisis, she asks, and now we are getting the instructions on how to get out of it, why did the government set up new ministries, including new apparatuses, new political deputy posts, new party vice-chairs? How did she allow an increase in the salary of constitutional officials of tens of thousands? How come no one attacks the inflation clause on church compensation? The government's trying to turn senior citizens into state extortionists. - One quote and one actually from the instructions, how and where you, honourable government Members, should begin. Mrs. Kateřina: Old people will leave nursing homes, they will have to hire a service to reach them for a few hours, they will live and suffer without help, they will not know what to do. Jitka: You know, when there are two retired people in the family and some people make extra money, that's fine. But I and many of my friends are widows or widowers, and for one, it's pretty much on the verge of paying. I only go shopping once a week, I have written down what I need, but every week the prices are higher. Please tell them for us that there are many grandmothers who would never be able to beg, even if they didn't have anything to eat, they don't have the Internet and they don't even know where they'd go. Perhaps as the last possible joke, when the promoter of this antisocial novel is the representatives of KDU-ČSL, I do not know if it will be visible at that distance on the cameras, but one of those retired women sent me a beautiful poster by Mrs. Šárka Jelínková, Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL, unsuccessful candidates for the Senate, so today Deputy Minister Jurečka, who announced before the elections on posters: We do not leave Czech pensioners in the lurch, we fight against the expensive, said Mrs. Šárka Jelínková for KDU-ČSL. So that's how you communicate. Well, if you're asking, when you're telling us, as opposition, you and the media, where the solutions are, I'm going to repeat them to you at the end of my speech, colleagues and colleagues. I think the symbolic little things we say, not just us, but our voters, and I believe that never your constituents again, so that's where you can start with yourself. You can cross out the useless, inefficient, inefficient ministries. You can nod to one of our proposals to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. And please, start, maybe, try to start collecting better taxes. The president of our club Alena Schillerová told you the numbers pretty clearly today. If the EET worked, if you were to collect from the EET and not let the money into the gray economy, then you almost had this problem solved and we wouldn't have to argue here all week. These are your tasks, honourable government Members and honourable members of the government. Ensure better tax collection and make sure that the state has income and does not have to make our seniors so shamefully ask us to ask for help and call on us to stand up for them here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary. At the end of my speech, maybe I can think of one more solution. If you don't believe in yourself, if you can't handle it, if you're actually finding out that the promises you made before the election and that were still vehemently declared by Prime Minister Fiala, that was the famous interview 11. 11th last year, when he promised not to move with the age of retirement, when he promised not to change the valorisation. Well, if you've found out that you can't do it, that you can't do it, then pretty please throw the towel in the ring, dissolve the government of total democracy, total destruction of the Czech nation, and I can promise you that we, as representatives of the opposition, are professionally prepared to take responsibility for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u325	My heartfelt greetings to my colleague and colleague, I've taken over the management of the meeting. Thank you for keeping the time, and we will proceed to the next logged in, which is Mr.Josef Kott, and I will ask directly: Do you want to join two five-minute contributions? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u326	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, fellow ministers, the legislative process takes time, and there can undoubtedly be situations where there is also a need to speed up. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament allow different instruments to be used to speed up the legislative process and, among them, the state of legislative emergency. The House of Deputies' Rules of Procedure introduced the Institute of Legislative Emergency in 1995. At that time, three readings of the laws were introduced into the House's meeting, which greatly extended the legislative process, thus creating a need to speed it up in some situations. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, so that in exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are significantly threatened, the President of the House, on a proposal from the Government, will declare a legislative emergency for a certain period. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 the President of the House in a state of legislative emergency, at the request of the Government, may decide that the Government's draft law will be discussed in a shortened hearing. [[19.40 hours]] However, real problems with the length of the legislative process occurred only after the establishment of the Senate, and therefore in 2000 the institute was accepted to agree with the draft law at first reading under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Instead of applying Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government has abused the institute of legislative emergency, which is intended for quite extraordinary situations. In this context, I must draw attention to the Constitutional Security Act, which introduces the accelerated negotiations in the context of emergency conditions, in a state of war and in a state of threat to the state, which are certainly situations which cannot be compared with the current justification for legislative emergency. The real reason for the use of legislative emergency, and the government is not hiding much, is to prevent the opposition from blocking this bill. If we admit that for this reason it is possible to declare a legislative emergency and to briefly discuss bills, then the legislative emergency will cease to be something special and will become a normal rule of how to silence the opposition, speedily adopting government bills. This is not the first time a state of legislative emergency has been declared due to high spending by the state, but I dare say that in the past it has always been unexpected expenditures that were not known in advance. I'm sure that's not the case this time. January's acceleration in inflation compared to December last year was no surprise. While the government, when justifying the use of a legislative emergency, presents a threat of considerable economic damage, it does not say anything about the real reasons and motives for using the instrument. By reducing the legislative process, the government clearly seeks to limit the rights of the opposition, revitalizing (?) the democratic principles on which our society is founded, which, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, could lead to a permanent reduction in the quality of democracy in our country and its damage in the eyes of our citizens. In the past, the Constitutional Court has called such a procedure undesirable and unconstitutional. According to the Constitutional Court, the reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency must be assessed in the light of the time of decision-making and the amount of information available at the time of the decision-making. It is also necessary to take account of the intensity of the reasons for declaring a legislative emergency in comparison with the limitations of the constitutional principles concerned. These reasons must not be arbitrary and must be based on a specific amount of damage, unless the proposed law is adopted as soon as possible. However, it should be pointed out here that the statutory valuation of pensions cannot be used for damage. [[consider]] That, colleagues and colleagues, is absurd about the whole thing. This is no way to treat pensions or pensions. Nor can the government's argument that the state budget does not count on statutory valuation be the reason for the adoption of legal measures under the short-term legislative procedure. There can be no other explanation for this than that the government failed to prepare the budget and had been secretly counting on it to declare a legislative emergency at the end of February and reduce the valorisation. However, the application of the institute of legislative emergency, provided that the state budget is already counting on the proposed changes, cannot be in line with constitutional principles for legitimate use of the state of legislative emergency. It is true that the opposition has announced in advance that the reduction in pension valorisation will not agree with this and will block it, but this cannot be an argument for the use of legislative emergency either. After all, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool of limiting parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill. If the legislative procedure is to fulfil not only the function of voting but also the guarantee of free political competition, the possible requirement of rationalization under the Constitutional Court cannot be implemented by enforcing the state of legislative emergency by the Government and the associated parliamentary majority. With this concept of legislative procedure, as already stated in the Constitutional Court ruling 53/10 of Part 4/B, the Constitutional Court does not fundamentally identify. If the government were unable to articulate any reason for a state of legislative emergency other than opposition to government bills, it would mean admitting proper legislative procedure, including its individual stages, merely the importance of the facade of parliamentarism. By its decision, the Constitutional Court set limits for political decisions when it restrictively defined the situation for which the Institute of Legislative Emergency should be used next time. These restrictive decisions are the limits by which the Constitutional Court expressed the superiority of the Constitution over all other circumstances affecting such decisions. This limits, to some extent, the autonomy of Parliament in the use of existing procedures and the creation of procedural needs. I believe that the presentation of the bill, which reduces the legal valorisation of pensions, is very far out of these limits, and therefore the conditions for discussing this bill in a short hearing are not fulfilled. However, the non-constitutional nature of the proposal is not merely indicative of procedural issues or circumstances of its possible approval. By reducing pension valorisation, the acquired rights are withdrawn and interference with the legitimate expectations of entitled persons. The Constitutional Court will undoubtedly take that into account when assessing this law. My last comment on the process of negotiating this law is that you, representatives of the government coalition, have not limited your decision to two or five minutes to shorten the duration of your performance only to priority rights. You've limited us to ordinary MPs. I believe that this is an obvious violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, and I feel reduced to my rights by a democratically elected Member. This is a significant reason why I will vote against the discussion of the House's press at 392 in the shortened negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u327	Thank you, too. And now, Mrs Věra Adámková may proceed to the counter. Mr Karel Haas will also be prepared. Please take the floor. And I'll ask you, two or five minutes? Do you want to merge together? [[Ten minutes, yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u328	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to divide my contribution into two parts. The first one is a short look behind yesterday's drama, comedy, or whatever you want to call what we saw here. I feel very reduced in my rights to exercise the mandate of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Not only could I not ask, I could not want answers to what our voters, our citizens are asking, and it does not matter who they are voting for, but I must say that the Rules of Procedure say in Section 11 that, of course, the Government is responsible to Parliament, I paraphrase freely, and in Section 50 that we must therefore also receive information. So it's even in two basic paragraphs, but unfortunately I couldn't use either. I think the whole situation is very serious, touching millions of our citizens. And these are not people who wouldn't really deserve us to take a very fundamental interest in their fate. Allow me to make a few observations. So, first of all, I really don't think there's any need for us to rush into the goal here in this way, not quite a well-written bill. There's a lot of things not clear. You see how we ask because it was just in a hurry. And I have to say, she really doesn't do a lot of work. There's a lot of mistakes, there's a lot of confusion, so I don't think that was the happiest way to find a solution. You know very well that indeed ANO is the opposition of dreams. We're trying to communicate, we're looking for ways to solve, we're trying to help, even if we could pin everything on you, and we're not doing that. But you really didn't do it here, that way. Maybe festina lente would be better. Let's freshen up a little that night, some Latin quotes, because history shows that they're deep right. [[19.50 hours]] I, of course, need to ask, and I would ask if there was time for this in proper negotiations, many things. First of all, I think the change in pension valorization is unfortunate. It doesn't come from the needs of our pensioners, it doesn't have a sociodemographic analysis processed, and I haven't found, I haven't really found, there's no social impact in the material on the socio-medical boundaries. And that's because disease comes with age. Nobody's getting any younger, not right, not left, not in the middle. And these people want to live a dignified life. Trust me, and it's my daily bread that those sick people don't want to go to somebody to take them somewhere to help them pay for their meds. They like to be alone. And now they're counting on something, because the inflation is really dramatic, 17 percent is really awful, and we're saying this is the average of all the averages, and in the final impact, it's more or less the depreciation of a fifth of the deposits. Fives of their savings. And these people don't have time to make any more money, because they may not be allowed to have health, or there's no way they're doing the work they've been doing their whole lives. Can you imagine a 90-year-old who'll talk to you otherwise, going to buy himself a living as a roofer? Of course not. Honestly, he couldn't even teach anymore, even if he was the best teacher and got a few Amos, because he just isn't there anymore. And as you well know, and I'm very sorry, there's no cure against age, believe me, there really isn't. So what we'd like to talk about here even further. I would like to turn your attention not now to the severe diseases, I do not want to burden you with this, you cannot all know the health-social problems of our people, but please nicely, the health-social boundaries are very important. Remember, these are people who may need to go to a spa for medical reasons. It's not that they're going there for coffee, please, God forbid, these are people with severe musculoskeletal impairment. And if you look at that claim sheet or that list of things that they can go to the spa, there's not a lot of what they call a cross, they have to pay extra. Do you know how much a three-week spa stay costs? A contribution? Which means the insurance companies are paying for their health services, the procedures, they're paying for their hotel services. That's over 20,000. That'll pay for Hurghada. But no one's gonna give them the confirmation to fly the plane. Because I have to warn you, and it's the bread of the day again, that people who might order that kind of recreation require doctors to confirm that they're healthy. Well, we can write that down for a given day. Nobody has a crystal ball. And these people are sick. So that's one thing. For the next one. And once again, because of the lengthening of life, you know that we have more disorders like Alzheimerův's disease. At that light stage, these people are able to be in their environment, but they must once again be sure that they will make a living. Can you imagine what it's like in those villages? Let me give you an example. 30 years ago, it wasn't you or us, it was just that, even though there were definitely those right-wing parties in that political garrison, so there was a lot of action for everyone to do electric heating. They had preferential rates, and indeed many people in those villages did it because they seemed to have very light heating. So imagine that these people, who are 85 years old now, are widows in 90 percent, unfortunately, as I say, no one is getting younger, so they have movement problems, they have a number of diseases like diabetes, hypertension, they pay for some drugs, and they just can't drown. And that's when I cry in my office. How's it going with the medical examiners? And they really live from crown to crown, they can't do any of that. Mr. colleague, don't turn your head on me, please sign up for the debate, don't point your hands at me. I really can't answer you. It's pointless. So please nicely, these people, and we've been in touch with them every day, really expecting something. We have no problem at all debating any other formula, but you have completely taken that option away from us. You took it in a way that is unprecedented here. Because they wouldn't let the debate and bend, so the paragraph was about equal in that moment, it wasn't even the two loopholes. That's really a little undignified for this House. I don't blame you, you just did, I just have to say that I want people who have a different political opinion to appreciate it, and you're starting to make it a little impossible for me. Let's have a little more dignified fun. Then I have one more thing to say to you. This is where it came down to appeal to such family cohesion. But I agree with that, of course, let the family help each other, that's okay. I just need to remind you that I feel very uncomfortable in that office since about the fall of last year, because these people are asking me how much they're going to pay me, which is a rather difficult question for the doctor, because I can't answer. I don't know what kind of pharmacy he has. Because they just don't have the medicine they need. And there's one more thing I'm pointing out. There hasn't been a big increase in these prices in the pharmacology yet, because they're agreed, but it's definitely going to happen. But they don't even have those prices that don't go up. So that's completely wrong. Another thing we have for health-social boundaries, and there are, of course, mostly pensioners, is the need to follow some dietary, say, culture, recommended things. So I went to look in one of the cheapest chain stores and I have to tell you that there is a cucumber that would not be enough for two people, it costs 35 crowns. So these people are crying to me that they just can't do it. The diabetic tells you, I can't afford to buy tomato and pepper. So then he just buys the sweet stuff. And that's what we don't want. I have to say, it's a real shame. And if you look at the price...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u329	I ask my colleague and colleagues, let the lady present her speech in a dignified environment. I'll give you a few seconds, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u330	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. And when you look at how much it costs to secure a child in preschool and school facilities, it's really very difficult for many families. They don't have what it takes to help that senior. Not that they don't want to, they just don't. Of course, there are families that can provide several seniors, but there are few, not all rich and young and capable. So I really have to say here that this didn't work out because there was no debate, you didn't listen to the terrain, you don't know what the terrain needs in a big part, or you just have a very closed bubble that doesn't tell you. And it's a shame. It is a real shame, because I believe that this House should produce very good laws, it should really talk about it professionally and not in this way to force. But as you can see, I don't scream or swear at anyone. I understand your motives, though I disagree with them. They seem small and really not entirely worthy of this honorable House. So it's a shame you chose this way. It's kind of a demonstration that you're not sure about the crappers, so to speak. You feel very weak in there that you don't want to discuss, but I think it's a shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u331	Thank you, too. And now Mr Karel Haas is in. All I'm saying is that there'll be a vote at 8:00. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u332	Dear colleagues, well, I'm wondering what I'm going to do with my last quote with a factual remark. I joined the debate the day before yesterday, and you know us lawyers. I had a structured speech prepared, so I'm gonna end it this way so I can use these two minutes in some meaningful way. None of us know how the Constitutional Court will decide, and I see a serious statement from the opposition that it wants to challenge the bill that will undoubtedly pass at the Constitutional Court. I'm not an alibi, so to end this seriously, I'm happy to take a bet with anyone from the opposition, very reasonable, that's how I make this offer, because as a lawyer, I believe the law will pass a test at the Constitutional Court. I wanted to give you the reasons in my structured decision, in my structured speech, but there's no time for it. So I really believe it. And I'm adding to that one context that didn't fall here. I believe that, even though - and perhaps not completely publicly known, we lawyers are more anxious to do so - almost half of the Constitutional Court's composition will be changed in the course of 2023. Seven new judges are coming, and as lawyers we have it, the guessing, the harder it is. So I believe that the government has prepared, justified the bill correctly. I believe that the legislative process we are experiencing this week is in line with those constitutional principles that are defined by the Constitutional Court case-law. And once again, honestly in that last minute, I'm offering a reasonable wager that the bill will pass the constitutionality test. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to voting in about 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u333	Thank you. So I am stating not only that it is 20 o'clock, but that the House has decided that we will now proceed to the vote. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] So I will finish this debate first, and I will continue to engage, and I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I shall make a motion for a resolution. [[Checkout diaper requirements.]] I hear you all checked out. Please sign up again with your identification cards and I will therefore make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, House Press 392, in a shortened hearing." I've started the vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 47 171 Members and Members were enrolled, for 99, against 72. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Please, with priority rights. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u334	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. That is how we have 43 registered when you have closed the debate and taken the vote. [[Screams from the bench in front of the speaker's counter.]] Don't yell at me, gentlemen. So far, I haven't heard you speak on the microphone once, through the Vice-President. Come on, let's get you on the mic with that big-ass talk! [[Applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] So I hope that now comes the moment when we can talk to the most fundamental one, and that is the law itself on pension insurance, or his amendment. Isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u335	Thank you. And so I'm now opening item one, a government bill that changes the law... [[Mrs Schiller is reporting for the floor. Noise in the courtroom.]] I'm sorry, I'm really... For the vote? Oh, to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u336	So it really happened for the first time in ten years. I voted against, and I've got a pro on high. I'm questioning... [[Raging applause with screams in the left side of the Chamber.]] Thank you, thank you for your appreciation. You know, it happens to everyone. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-02-ps2021-055-03-000-000.u337	I see. We will therefore vote on the adoption of the objection first. An objection to the vote has been raised. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 48: 171 voting, for 169, against 1, an objection has been accepted and we will therefore repeat the vote. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Let me just remind you, this is a vote on the motion for a resolution, which states that there are still conditions for discussing the Government's bill, the House's press 392, in a short hearing. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Anyone who opposes may also press the button and raise your hand. In the vote number 49, 171 votes were cast, for 97, against 73. Once again, I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. And so we are finally approaching item number 1 of this meeting. I'm opening the point and it's him.
