ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u1	3. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, and other related laws /house print 286/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Martin Kupka, the Minister of Transport, will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a proposal for a law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The main objective of the amendment is to change the legal form and name of the state contribution organisation of the Road and Motorway Directorate into a state enterprise. At first reading, I brought the whole story of the discussion and preparation of this very important change. They aim to enable all processes of the investor organisation to be more flexible in order to strengthen the position of the Road and Motorway Directorate as well as in the labour market, in order to ensure greater control of the operation of the Road and Motorway Directorate not only in the field of investment itself, i.e. in the course of construction, but also in the framework of maintenance. The transfer, or transformation into a state enterprise, will also allow financing, which will follow the logic of the service carried out to the State, i.e. maintenance work carried out, realized investment buildings and the like. We are heading towards transforming the Road and Motorway Directorate as of 1 January next year, with the recommendation that the Economic Committee adopt two amendments to the bill during its negotiations, both of which concern the control of the Road and Motorway Directorate, and the Ministry of Transport also agrees with both of these proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as Parliamentary press 286/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Ondřej Lochman, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u4	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Mr President. As has already been said by the Minister, this is therefore an amendment to Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. It is mainly about the change of legal form in the name of the state contribution organization, which is the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic, to the state enterprise. [[16.10 hours]] To that end, the reasoning. Most of it was said here, I just want to say that the point is that - I have a ten-year plan prepared - when you look at the effectiveness of the ŘSD, there is a great progression here. At the same time, it can be seen that, for example, spreadsheet salaries are a big drag in further development, further efficiency of the RSD. There are many reasons that are in the explanatory memorandum, which has already been partly presented by the Minister. So these are the main reasons for changing this form. By the way, the change in form to a state enterprise was recommended by the Government's Legislative Council. There is also some consistency between state investors, where ŘSD is now a state contribution organisation, while Railway Administration is a state organisation. That's the main thing. The Economic Committee then recommends further consideration of this law. There are two amendments from Mr Blaha. Both led to closer control of ŘSD and there is consent from the Ministry of Transport as well as from the Committee of Economics. So much for my introduction, I guess. Otherwise, I will then sign up in a general and detailed debate on the amendment - not as rapporteur, but as ordinary Member. Thank you. [[The Member is turning to the President, speaking off the microphone.]] [[The President off the microphone: I will make the resolution available.]] [[The President shall provide the speaker with the material.]] I'm sorry, thank you for the addition. So I will just read the committee's resolution, when the Committee on Economic Affairs just "after hearing the introductory words of the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka and Mr Ondřej Lochman's report and after a general and detailed debate: [[I.]] recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the Parliament's Press 286 as amended by the approved amendments, namely: [[Czech Republic]] 1. v No I v § 9 za par. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Number 4, which is: 4. [[Annex V.Part 2.116 (d)]] [[correct 9a]] The Road and Motorway Directorate, p. p., will implement and maintain an internal control system under the Financial Control Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The 2. In No III, point 3 of the amendment is deleted. [[Annex V.Part 2.116 (d)]] II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman (a) of the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law." And after that, it's just the commission of the committee. So much for the resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you, Madam President, for the text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u5	It's a common thing to help each other out. [[Ambassador Lochman is turning around, failing to return the material.]] Thank you, rapporteur. But if you would return the resolution to me, I would be grateful. I am now opening a general debate to which Mr Stanislav Blaha is first signed up, and Mr... [[Member Lochman from the rapporteur's desk space off the microphone: In detail.]] In detail, okay. So Mr Marek Novák is reporting to the general debate. Please take your word for it, and the rapporteur, Lochman, will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to make a few comments within the framework of this House's press. As we have already heard, the objective of the draft law amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Roads, and other related laws, is basically the implementation of a change in the legal form and name of the state contribution organization of the Roads and Motorways Directorate of the Czech Republic to a state enterprise, which will be designated as the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, s. p. The submitted material follows the substantive intention of the Act on the State Organisation of the Administration of Motorways and Roads, which was approved by the Government Resolution 716 on 23 August 2021, and takes into account the comments contained in the Government Legislative Council's opinion on the substantive intention of the Act. This substantive intention of the law was prepared by the previous government under the leadership of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, presented in August 2021, and I thank you very much that this government has established and continued the transformation of the Road and Motorway Directorate, because the transformation will, among other things, bring better legal personality, a wider possibility of financial evaluation and motivation for the professionals we need in this area, further wider and greater possibilities in managing own property, such as the operational possibility of installing information systems, but also systems to control overloaded trucks and also systems for the immediate collection of fines for offences. The Austrian system is a free inspiration, where this model has already been proven and works very well in practice. I will add that this material is actually based on the Government's substantive intention of 2021, and there is agreement on how it is proposed. The important thing for us is that the existing Road and Motorway Directorate will not die and a new organisation will not arise, but the company will be transformed, which is important for us. Therefore, for the YES movement, which has essentially prepared the proposal, I am calling on the consent and support of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lochman is now on the table for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I will no longer speak directly to the transformation of the contribution organization into a state enterprise, however, by the opening of the road law, there is also room for talking about other parts of this law. I just want to give a statement of reasons for the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed discussion. In principle, I would like to say in a very simple way that it is directed towards the simpler removal of advertising trailers, which have been swarmed mainly by twos in the last four or five years, but also by ones, so-called first-class and second-class communications. There are several companies that are trying to take advantage of the fact that when they install an advertising banner in the protection zone of communication, it takes the road administration several weeks to so-called eavesdropping, i.e. to get rid of this banner, and so I suggested a change in the possibility for municipalities, regions and, above all, road managers to be able to get rid of these illegal pilgrims easily and effectively. This amendment does not concern any practice which is legal and which is permitted, it is merely aimed at those who unfairly abuse it, public space in particular. That's probably the case in general. Then I will join the proposal in a detailed discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur interested. There was no proposal in the general debate that we should vote on, which is why I am initiating a detailed debate and I remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Stanislav Blaha has applied for the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare my two amendments, which are registered under 2479 and 2480, and at the same time I note that these amendments are fully justified, and the whole justification is already part of the proposal that has been registered in the House of Records. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u11	Yes, thank you. The rapporteur is also reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u12	Thank you. So, not here as rapporteur, but I want to apply to this already justified amendment, which is registered under number 2519, and, as I have already said, it is an amendment that seeks to correct precisely the way in which advertising trailers are removed in the protection zone. And here we are primarily concerned with safety, when, for example, in January in the Moravian-Silesian Region, a fatal accident occurred when the driver hit an illegal banner, and actually stood there for a long time and it was impossible to remove it, it was very complicated, and it is precisely these situations that this amendment is aiming at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-004-003.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, so I conclude a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. In a detailed debate, there were no proposals that we should vote on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. Before we proceed to discuss another point, I will read an apology: Vice-President Skopeček apologizes from 16.15 to 18 for work reasons. Now I'm opening a point.
