ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u1	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 71st session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign us all out first, and I'm going to ask everyone to sign up with our ID cards, and if necessary, I'm going to ask you to tell me who you're asking for a replacement card. I also agree that for reasons Lanka to his/her absence from today, for David relating to his/her life, for Válková Havel to his/her life, for Barbora Urbanová to his/her life, for Patrik relating to his/her life, for Petr Romana to his/her life, for Pavel Žáček to his/her life, for Tomáš Gazdík to Helebrant/her life, for Ženíšek relating to his/her life, Ratiborský Letocha from the Nacher Janulík of his/her work for reasons relating to his/her Bohuslav, Pastuchová Berki from the Lacina day of his/her case, Jiří Carbol from the Balaštíková day of his/her Stanislav, for Tureček Oulehlová to his/her/her family's Věra, Mr Babka Ondřej Kovářová until 11.30 hours for health reasons relating to his/her health Marek, David Foldyna from the whole day of his/her case, from the whole date of his/her case, from the Pošarová date of his/her Vondrák, from the Margita day of his/her case, from the whole date of his/her case, from the Svoboda date of his/her work, from the Navrátil date of his/her/her/her case, from the 15th of his/her of his/her of his/her of his/her case, from the case, from the whole case, from the case, from the case, from the whole date of his/her of his/her of his/her of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her case of his/her from the case of his/her of his/her of his/her of his/her case, from the Šimek date, from the case, from the whole Renata, from the case, from the case, from the case, from the whole Jáč, from the Ivan date, from the whole date of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her of his/her/her case, from the whole date of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her case, from the whole date of his/his/her We come to the pardons of the members of the government. Minister Mikuláš Bek apologizes for the whole day for working reasons, Pavel Blažek up to 12.30 hours for working reasons, Martin Dvořák from the whole day for working reasons, Helena Langšádlová from 9 to 10 hours for working reasons, Jan Lipavskýý up to 14 hours for working reasons, Vít Rakušan from 15 to 9 a.m. due to foreign travel, Vlastimil Válek from the whole day for personal reasons. This is how I've settled my apology so far. I am still saying that Mr Teleky's replacement card number 23 is voting. Before we proceed to discuss item number 3, which is the House Press 458, the third reading of the Pension Insurance Act, I remind you that the 72nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be launched at 14:00 today. That'll be 2:00. Now we still have the priority rights logged in before that point number 3 is even opened. Mr Cogan withdraws his application before opening the item. Then, Chairman Babiš. Just to recapitulate the order of rights - then President Alena Schillerová, Vice-President Klára Dostálová and Vice-President Karel Havlíček. All before opening the point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you can take the floor. Please. And I'm gonna ask in the room for a dignified hearing room. Colleagues, colleagues, phone calls to the lobby, please. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u2	So, fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I am full of impressions from last week's various performances by the Prime Minister, and that this government is the most lying in the history of our independent Czech Republic, we know that. We have also seen a beautiful commentary on the politics of lies, and I really must say that I couldn't do it. Well, this morning, a deputy of ours came to me who was at the dentist yesterday, and the dentist says to her, "Do you know why Prime Minister Fiala is lying so much?" It's Babiš's fault. Well, that's brilliant. That's totally brilliant, I really like that. Well, after what I was most interested in last week, this or the Prime Minister's performance was how he tamed inflation. First it was Babiš, then Putin, then the CNB, and now I don't even know if this billboard is SPOLU or ODS, but let's say the ODS, and here they tell us: Dear fellow citizens, we're controlling inflation, we're pushing the supply chains, and that's why inflation is going down. [[He's showing up for the billboard.]] Well, Prime Minister, you can push in the morning in the room where we all go in the morning. That's as much as you can push. Yeah? And if he's really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u3	I'd like a really dignified hearing. Some notes...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u4	I didn't say any vulgarism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u5	... near the edge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u6	I just used one word on P and I was criticized, everyone uses it, then Bartoš said K, and that was all fine. Yeah, but we know that the media have the meter they have. So if the Prime Minister really is such a genius and he can push it down, it would be nice if it was butter and bread and milk for 5 crowns. I don't know why not. Well, that's a start. [[9.10 hours]] I took part in the budget committee yesterday. It was a great experience. I went to that committee as Secretary of Finance. I didn't go there as Prime Minister. It is not enough to wonder how the Minister of Finance can explain with such ease and insight that the income of 50 billion to the Modernization Fund that we negotiated, that he does not know who put it there. He doesn't know who put it there, and he's not really leaking information to the government, which is why we didn't know. We got a table where predictions make revenue, no, state budget. The revenue from the Modernization Fund is 50 billion and the forecast is zero. All right, you hear me, zero. So, of course, it was manipulation because the Minister and the government needed a number two there. That's why they have 295 so they can say, well, we did it. Of course, it's fraud, it's nonsense, and the budget, the new prediction is minus 321 billion. Well, of course, it's all tax. I will repeat again, and it is, of course, abnormal to understand that when the Prime Minister says how he has tamed the inflation, which, of course, is nonsense, why did citizens and companies and businessmen pay an inflationary tax of 260 billion for 2022 and 2023? We all paid together. Yes, windfall tax, also nonsense. Also nonsense, windfall tax. And of course, 63 billion will fall out of it. Yes. So in the finals, who's gonna pay for it? Mainly it will pay ČEZ, which should have privatized a long time ago, buy back 100 percent, and I repeat that the solution to inflation was a ceiling on the price of electricity for producers to CZK 1500, and I repeat again, dear fellow citizens, that in Slovakia citizens have CZK 1500 per megawatt. The budget is unbelievable, but what's completely incredible, and basically nobody cares, because, of course, all the experts are pro-government. Pro-government - apart from Professor Švejnar, he is the only independent. He works in America and he works here, and all the experts are pro-government, all the experts say how amazing it would be, how the government does everything fantastic. Well, then, 63 billion. Energy aid is going to be 79 billion. Well, we'd love to see who got the energy help. According to the companies, that's how it was. And we'd also like to know if there were any additional frauds, because everyone knows that the ceiling was nonsense, that we have the most expensive electricity in Europe, and that basically there are additional contracts to be signed when someone has a good deal with a manufacturer or supplier, and that the state will compensate. So the finance minister said he'd be saving up. Well, I'm fascinated by the fact that the government is still talking, savings, savings, and that's what today's discussion is that this government is saving only on pensioners so far, they've already taken CZK 7,000, and I'm curious about the Constitutional Court's decision, even though the ODS expert here said it's clear that it's going to be against the elderly. Well, he doesn't spare himself, of course. I don't want to tell you what they should do again, but I'll see if I can do it again. But what is absolutely the biggest shock and absolutely incredible is that the government has borrowed a billion EURO on SFDI, this is the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which, of course, finances all the investments in transport infrastructure, and imagine that it's for ten years, it's going into public debt, but it's not going into the budget. This is unbelievable. I've never seen this before. I, of course, as Minister of Finance back in the day, will honestly admit to Minister Stanjur that I tried, too, but the clerks sent me somewhere, but we didn't treat the officials as brutally as this government is acting, threatening them and so on, but that's not the topic now. So what does that mean? It means that the 24 billion SFDIs actually, if they invest it or maybe they're already investing it, maybe they'll pay for it, so basically it's based on how government representatives say it's not coming in. Well, to confirm this insanity, someone from the government confirmed it, so I watched the early evening broadcast, and imagine that the Minister of Transport Kupka claims that he introduced some plan very vague that he should separate the investment budget from the current budget. Do you understand that? I don't understand. So we're going to have some investment budget, we're going to borrow money, it's not going to go into the state budget, so obviously the deficit isn't going to get worse because it's spending, and in ten years, if there's a maturity, and someone has to pay it, so I'm wondering if SFDI has the money for it, or if it's going to pay the budget. Well, of course it'll pay for the budget. So it's completely unbelievable, I don't understand how it can be, and it would be good if someone explained to us that the government's strategy is to invest and borrow outside the budget. Well, I told the Minister yesterday, I didn't perform here on the budget committee officially, but I said to him, "Well, you can borrow a thousand billion, right? That's great. You put it everywhere, you can fill up all the investments you strangled and took. Such Mr Bartoš could accommodate municipalities for investment in schools, etc. So what I don't understand is that Minister Kupka repeated it, that in short, I think it's a normal scam, because it's not possible for someone to borrow somewhere, and it's going into debt, and then the money, in fact, didn't put the investment in the budget into deficit. Well, that's of course very interesting, I don't understand, and it would be good if someone explained it to us. Well, then we had EGAP on the budget committee. Some deputy came in, said his name was Bittner, read it out of paper, didn't know what it was about. Fortunately, there was also a representative directly from EGAPU, so we learned something. And if you don't know what the Czech Export Bank and EGAP are, this is the bank that was supposed to support Czech export entrepreneurs, it guaranteed them exports and EGAP insured them. Well, in the days of the ODS governments, they blew about 80 billion and there were x frauds. Well, this Mr. Bittner, I asked him who he really was, he's some kind of political deputy, so then I heard the story he was going on, I guess there's a guy there for this job of cleaning up the staff, so at the airport's supervisory board, when he was throwing out the guy who's an independent international expert, so he told him, we need places for our colleagues. You know, we do politics here, our fellow party members everywhere, so we know that in traditional democratic parties with a rich history of corruption, they do that. Well, the man says to him, "But Babiš didn't do it. And you know what he said? That Babiš didn't have people. jo. Babiš did not, for example, push Kolovratník into the supervisory board of the airport. No, Babiš chose independent people there, and here members of the movement and members of the movement know that we are always, that I have chosen people according to expertise and ability, and not to please someone and to be elected chairman of the movement. Well, that's Mr. Bittner. So now we've learned that EGAP will support exports to Ukraine. [[9.20 hours]] I remember when I was Minister of Finance, so I was dealing with the Skoda Auto dealer scam in Ukraine, where I think we were robbed by 800 million. I don't know how it turned out, we remember Adularya and all this, various investments that ended up being cheated in advance. Let's hope this works. Then we had the Czech National Bank on the Committee on Budgets. Well, that was a great experience, too. I came forward and said that the entire Czech National Bank policy is flawed, their inflation theories are meaningless, because that is the lesson, these are the theorists, and it is clear that inflation at the beginning, but by the end of 2021, it was not yet a war, it caused a completely crazy and abnormal strategy by Germany, when Merkelová to win elections in Hessen against the crazy Greens who want to destroy Europe, so banned the core. Unbelievable - forbids the core. And that's where it started. And, of course, emission allowances. The Prime Minister criticized me, told me how he would handle it. Well, he didn't do anything. I wrote a copy of the letters, x-times I spoke to the European Council, and I wanted the emission allowance to be up to EUR 30 in September 2021. Yes, it's a fraud, it's a nonsense directive, it's destroying industry, well, especially industry in Poland and the Czech Republic. We fought it, but in vain, because somebody's got a big deal in it. And then I asked Mrs Zamrazilová why the Czech National Bank has another basic interest rate for our citizens and for our companies and so on. I was so amused by the answer. Because, of course, if you study what Professor Švejnar says, the government is already...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u7	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I have to step in. Please, on the right side of the hall, Mr. Chairman. It's very loud. Thank you and please next time in the lobby. I'm sorry, and please return to your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u8	Interesting is the professor's thesis, who claims that the government, with its comments, has been still haunted by how it will be, can instigate inflation with its expressions. I'm not saying it, but I was very amused when Mrs. Zamrazilová said, "That Lagard, she didn't make it." We had a period when the interest on the euro was zero and Rusnok, who caused it all with his theorists, never made any prognosis, so he put it on immediately and, of course, fellow citizens, well now listen, last year commercial banks made 180 billion on these interest rates just by having the money stored there and filming them of course. So that's what this is about. I don't get it at all - and Mrs. Zamrazilová has to be said, yes, she suggested, because she's Michlův's team, I didn't get that either, that's his choice, hated Michl, because he was supposed to be Babiš's advisor, but since May 2017, I didn't really have any contact with him, so she suggested that they wouldn't go that high with the interest. And there was another person from the CNB. These people are pure theorists, they don't understand how the economy works. They have a theory here, a theory taken over by this government. We gave people money, we, the YES movement in the government, raised salaries, reduced taxes with the support of the ODS, abolished the super gross wage scam, and somebody keeps telling the lie that we caused inflation. So let someone explain to me why citizens have also increased their savings by 900 billion. It's not normal. If citizens caused inflation - and there was a big debate about apartments then in the debate with Mrs Zamrazilová - it doesn't make sense if citizens took money and ran to the store and there was a roll for 2.90 and there was one and those citizens would be 20, one didn't eat 14 days and bought it for a hundred. Well, that's bullshit. So people in practice have to listen to this, and it's totally crazy. And, of course, this government is repeating it because it doesn't understand what's going on. And, of course, they caused this inflation by not lowering the price of electricity for producers. In CEZ, we said in 2022: take the dividend, buy out the minority. They didn't do it and they didn't just do it because, of course, Babiš. That's all. When we recommend something, it's all wrong. So that Mrs Zamrazilová actually explained to me that this Lagardová is doing it wrong, the European Central Bank, and I am not questioning it. I say, we are in the European Union, we are exporting 87 percent, we have investors here, and basically it is the dominant central bank, and I do not understand why we do not have the same interest as in the euro area. And it has nothing to do with membership in the euro area, it doesn't. If I were governor, I'd definitely say yes, let's have the same rates. The only credit of the Czech National Bank, relative credit, by destroying the mortgage market, by making it difficult for young people to buy an apartment. Mr. Bartoš also said when he got in, he was going to build apartments, now he's saying no, go to rents, discuss with Mr. President - I don't know what - come to rents. All the programs that Klára Dostálová had for young people - and last week there was a demonstration - canceled and destroyed. [[I did.]] Well, I'm curious about the real estate market. And yesterday they bragged that there was some relief that they wouldn't need those banks in terms of income, now I don't know what. But the essence of the apartment, I don't know, 2+kk in Brno, I think it's worth 5 million, it's got 20 percent, it's a million crowns, so I'm asking where it's going to get it, that million. Nobody's gonna figure that out, so the debate was really interesting. I had the opportunity to discuss with the CNB's representative for the first time, because you know I constantly criticize the CNB's policy. It's recording to the banks, I repeat, they've got 180 billion. It's destroying the mortgage market. Of course, the companies that can go from koruna loans to euro loans. Then they criticized it, and Mr. Michl was as surprised as possible. Well, logically. These people don't understand that entrepreneurs have to pay people every month, pay their taxes, and no one can help them. It's not a state that lives, lives, and doesn't even think about anyone ever coming in and saying, "Now there are actually different rules." So, of course, the businessman, if he doesn't work out and gets higher interest, what's he gonna do about it? So it stops investing, of course investment is growth, growth is GDP, taxes fall, or it takes people away. So it's against again. So the debate with Mrs Zamrazilová was very interesting to me and it came out that the ECB, Lagardová, is doing it wrong and that actually the whole of Europe, the whole world and America should have the same rates, 7 percent. Now I don't know what the euro prime rate is, about 4.5 or how much, but mostly it was half. Well, yes, what do these people want? They want people - and now I remember the advisor to President Pavel, who was on television, who once worked for Bakala, then worked at Česká spořitelna, now advises the President - says: Imagine that citizens of the Czech Republic fly on vacation! [[9.30 hours]] How dare they go on vacation? They have money. So they would imagine that people wouldn't eat, they wouldn't eat, they wouldn't do anything, they'd sit on their asses and there'd be 20% unemployment. And then that's their anti-inflationary strategy, which, of course, is absolute stupidity. Because perhaps someone has forgotten that politicians and governments should care for citizens to have a better life. And, of course, we took care of it. And here, in fact, there is still a budget and still debt that is low, but no one is dealing with a strategy. We don't hear much about investment. Now there's this committee, and I'm gonna get to that. So, as Professor Švejnar says, the government is supposed to provide a standard of living and increase it. And now she's basically doing everything she can to destroy that standard of living. And already in the prosperity ranking, we have fallen from ninth to 12th place. So it's just that there are different theorists here, and you don't see anyone from practice in the media, okay? The real businessmen are avoiding a public debate. That's why we have an industrial representative in tripartite today representing the apartments that Bakala stole from the OKD miners. And, of course, they're all patting each other on the shoulders, how great it all is. And the Chamber of Commerce? Well, there's a former close associate of Ivan Langr, a politician, so that's the representation of the entrepreneurs, the employers, that's what we have here. So the budget committee - I came mainly because my colleague Schillerová finally forced the finance minister to come. Yes, and he came and answered and I spoke to him informally. I'm always fascinated by the fact that he didn't know about the $50 billion, and now the Prime Minister is trying to tell us within his lies that the $54 million for Michelin, that he didn't really want it, but that they talked him into it. Well, I don't know, when he's prime minister, he's gonna hit the table and say - no 54 million for Michelin when we don't have money for seniors and social services and so on. Then we won't give it to them. It's so stupid, please. I know something about Michelin. And for Michelin's guide to be - I don't know - 50 of our restaurants... Does anyone really think tourists come here to go to Michelin? I don't know if anyone in the government was Michelin there because our Michelin here - that's a little different from the French ones. So unbelievable, but it's true. And, of course, it's all because the media that won, the selected media that won the election for this five-calice and the president, so they're getting ahead of how awesome this government is and that they can't actually do anything and so on. So here's a tweet-- now I'm gonna talk about that strategic investment committee. So there the President of the Union of Industry says - Today's first meeting of the Strategic Investment Committee, convened by Mr Fiala. [[reads from the sheet]] A good start, a good vision, an effort to show courage for entrepreneurs - I do not know who they speak for - we are prepared to present concrete investment proposals and changes to legislation or financing proposal. The following months will show what will result -- well, that's what we're threatening. The problem with this government, which won with the anti-Babish, is that everything we did, they ignore. They're not able to admit that something's right. When we reconstructed D1 and we fixed it up, yes, 26 billion completely new, I acknowledged that Mr. Transport Minister Stanjura was there when two sections began to prepare. Yes, that was it, and that's it. And now, fellow citizens, this is the National Investment Plan of the Czech Republic from 2020 to 2050 and is the first in history, the Czech Republic, the country for the future, the countries of the future for 11 million people. [[shows the folder]] Yes, I was always in politics, and when I saw something, I took over. Jan Antonín Baťa - Let's build a country for $40 million. That's copyright at present. So, of course, the government did that strategic committee where I don't understand who's sitting there. There's the government, there's the tripartite, there's the captain of Kuba and Lukl, they're mostly politicians, of course. Well, where are the unions - construction and other unions, the ones from practice? Well, they're not. What are they gonna do there? I really don't understand. So here I am - and especially for the Prime Minister, I would like to read here the preamble to our plan, which he has - and now I'm looking for it here - it's 20,000 projects, project plans in a total of 8,000 billion. Yes, according to the resorts. So when Mr. Kupka yesterday - and with the Prime Minister - actually they act as if they were born now, as if the ODS hadn't ruled since the '90s, as if they weren't in government until 2013. And I'm assuming that Karel Havlíček will come forward and tell you how many highways they've built over the years, how many highways they've opened -- and if I remember correctly, that was some 800 meters. So the traffic - for example, to the right, there's six thousand billion by 2050, Minister Kupka, there you have it. Of this is 3,000 billion by 2030, of which 782 billion are motorways, 457 billion are bypasses, 44 billion (?) On the railway station buildings, the modernization of the railway is 878 billion and the fast track that we started to do started for us, it could have been built long ago, if someone had thought in the nineties, so fast track of 769 billion. So what does it say here in the opening word? Ladies and gentlemen, last year we celebrated 100 years since the creation of a separate Czechoslovakia, from which the present Czech Republic was born. To this day, we look with respect and admiration at the results of the first republic, which was among the most advanced countries in the world - yes, it is a pity that this was not realized after the revolution - the republic was cut by rails, roads, from new airports took off our Czech planes. And this is one of the reasons why we admire names such as Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, Jan Antonín Baťa or Antonín Švehla, personalities who had a clear vision of how to build the state. Even our government - I speak for the government - inspired by this successful past, prepared the National Investment Plan of the Czech Republic, the first in history. Our country's investment potential for the next 30 years is part of our project - the Czech Republic, a country for the future - which this government is destroying for 11 million citizens of the Czech Republic. Why did we launch this project? Well, it's simple. I have found that over the last 30 years Czech politicians have completely resigned to any long-term strategic investment planning and have not been able to exploit the enormous potential of our country and our people, citizens of the Czech Republic. Our goal now is to build on the successful tradition of the First Republic and give the state investment strategy a long-term vision. [[9.40 hours]] Long-term vision! And I don't understand why there's something going on there that doesn't link this government to this material. Yes, one MP criticizes it (?) that it's some kind of list. Yeah, that's the potential, and every minister was supposed to read it before the budget and choose those priorities from those projects and promote them. The national investment plan is much wider than you expected, actually it is our country's investment potential by 2050. We are also in one place for future governments, yes - future governments, and we had no idea that they would completely ignore us, everyone wonders why it works in Poland. Well, because they're all fighting for those highways and they're fighting together for the investments. No, here's what I've been talking about. So, in one place, we have gathered, from our point of view, major investments for future governments, which we see as necessary. This plan should serve the next prime ministers, ministers, captains, mayors, just all public investors, as it says here, in 2020. And it should be the main driver of the growth of the Czech economy in the future. It simply must not repeat the situation of 2009, when the state strangled public budgets just at the time of economic cooling, took money from people and thus increased the economic crisis and disproportionately extended it. Well, what does that remind me of? That's text 2020. We're 2023 now. That's exactly what this government is doing. It is clear that the world's economies are currently cooling off, but our government will do exactly the opposite of what the government did in 2009. We will not scare people, and if the private sector invests less, the state will invest much more and take over the economic growth relay. Yesterday, Mrs Zamrazilová told us that not only does the consumption of people fall, of course, the retail turnover, because this government - these people do not believe it. He doesn't believe the future, he's afraid, which is why the birth rate is falling, among other things. And, of course, people only go shopping - mainly to Poland, Germany, and the Minister of Finance doesn't mind. So that's exactly what this government-- that's how it's rehearsed from 2009-- it does. So he's gonna strangle it. The purpose of the National Investment Plan is to gather all our country's investment potential in one place. A stack of investment projects is created, which ministers, generals, mayors and mayors should update, select and implement from it according to the readiness and financial coverage. It took a lot of effort to do all this, the plan, but unfortunately they don't give a shit, everyone ignores it, especially the media ignores it, because the media, when they want to, of course, comment on it as needed, in favour of this government. In the future, these investments should be part of individual national budgets, regional budgets, cities and municipalities. That's what we write. Now, this government is actually figuring out that the investment will be out of budget, we'll be in debt there, I don't get it, but it's clear that if the state had an auditor of the first fives or fours or I don't know how many there are, they'll never get a stamp. But that's a different subject. Of course, it will serve as a basis and a fundamental argument in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework of European Union funds for the Czech Republic for the period 2021-2027. The national investment plan will serve as a supply of projects for the National Development Fund, which should implement some projects by the PPP system. Well, the ideal PPP project could be, for example, the highway between Hradec Králové and Olomouc, which is a motorway stretch of 70 km long, which is the most critical section in terms of transport complications of our country. The only PPP project of our predecessors ended in a fiasco, where someone wanted to steal, but that does not mean that we should reject cooperation between the public and private sectors. I hope that this government will be the first to successfully start construction of the motorway on the basis of the PPP project. The construction of the D4 motorway between Příbram and Písek, 32 km long, should start next year. So, fellow citizens, let me thank Karel Havlíček on your behalf, who did it! The first PPP project since the revolution! Since the revolution! [[Let's hear it for yes.]] And you think at the press conference, it's called The evening broadcast, by the way, is very interesting, have you noticed, fellow citizens, that Czech television does not broadcast the House at all? Back in the morning, when I was practicing at 5:00, everything went. So try to figure out why they're not broadcasting it. Well, because the Czech TV, which is part of this government, and this group of mainstream people, who's been poaching all this since the revolution, doesn't want to hear and know -- maybe they don't even broadcast it here. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] And how does the media work? I was talking about it last time that there was an article, it's also a magazine that belongs to a strange businessman, so they were talking about this PPP highway, the first PPP, they were supposed to open in December 2024, and there was a criticism, yes, of the first PPP project where someone wanted to steal, yes, but not a word about Havlíček, not a word about Babiš, we just don't exist. We don't exist! So when it's done, the Prime Minister and Mr. Kupka will be here, who has the best resort because we've prepared everything for him. And most importantly, now that they're thinking about borrowing out of the budget, that's genius, but I don't even want to get into it. So that's it. This government lives only on what we did. I can talk about cultural monuments here, Dukovany, they'll still lie to you that Havlíček wanted Russia. I didn't. And I'll keep saying that 2012 on the tender - this government in power - was Rosatom against Westinghouse. But a thousand times repeated lies to some people are true. So PPP projects are great, it would be good if Minister Kupka told his projects that he will do, and if he is actually talking about completing the Prague bypass, I will congratulate him. We couldn't do it. Why? Because Hřib was a politician. He always wanted something - here the builder bypassed such - in the course of the negotiations. Remember the office district in Letňany? That's where the subway ends in the field. That's where the Olympic Stadium was supposed to be, the Olympics were supposed to be here. And this crap from last time. So if the minister does this, he's gonna finish the bypass, it's gonna be brilliant. Because, yes, we haven't had it in 30 years. We finished D8 in December 2016, it was 32 years since it was built. The castle stopped by. No, I didn't. There was talk of it. There was talk of it! So PPP projects - yes, I was interested, I even did a seminar. And PPP can also be a hospital, it can be an administrative building, anything can be PPP. That means a private investor will pay for it, mainly it will build quickly and will not steal, unlike the state. We remember the most expensive highway behind the ODS, we remember the Viamont, the Minister of Transport who owned the construction of the highway and sat in the government. But, of course, the pro-government media won't tell you that. So the PPP is great, and I haven't heard the Prime Minister say that Mr. Kupka came in, brilliantly, and he's gonna have a network of highways in 10 years, so I don't know when. For example, I wanted Karlovarska to be completed by 2025, and now we're talking about 2027. So, Minister Kupka, do the PPP, show that you can do the same as Havlíček, and we'll support you. So Hradec - Olomouc, this is what I'm talking about, and Prague - Tabor. I'm fascinated by the insolence of the ODS when they talk about this. When I started in politics, there was a great senator from South Bohemia, now I don't know his name, maybe Kubíček will remind me of who lobbied for the freeway. And imagine that the route to Benešov by D1 was already done, five years was being prepared, but then somebody didn't have land there, so it got cancelled. [[9.50 hours]] I got off here last time, a long time ago, and I asked what they were doing after the revolution, thinking, why didn't they go abroad? But I don't need to be a foreign expert to know that if I'm going to Brno - Bratislava, then at the level of Břeclav transport is Austria - how much? - 25 kilometers of the shortest route. It could have been a long time ago. No, they went in the middle. Why? Well, because the land-- the ODS guys. The tunnel of České Budějovice, yes, is a tunnel, because again some councilman from ODS had land there. And why would there be a freeway? I've got land here. Well, it's gonna cost a billion... maybe now he doesn't even have the money for the tunnel. Well, I don't know, I think Minister Kupka, since he's living on our work so far, I've always pushed our people to do things that people know. The main railway station in Prague will be beautiful. Railway station in Teplice - historical monument. So the Prime Minister promised it would be. And those highways, of course, make people feel like they're gonna know something in their lives. I don't know which projects are Minister Kupka. And he should say, yes, I'll do a PPP project too. But he didn't say it in the speech. And I'm gonna do, I don't know, Hradec, it doesn't have to... of course, it doesn't have to be built, but to manage it, to prepare, to choose the company, the way Karel Havlíček did it, yes, and, of course, maybe he'll open it up, because when I read actually, now I've read the commentary from one of the editors, I'm not gonna name it, so Fiala's totally brilliant and probably the next election will win again, because he's actually gonna push inflation down to 2% and, of course, by repeating lies with the government media. [[with laughter:]] Well, who knows? Who knows? Who knows? We did it for the people, and it would be good if Minister Kupka, since it's already so fantastic that he discovered America and here he didn't read this material to finally say I'm gonna do this, here this PPP or this other PPP or something where the government doesn't have the funds to do it right now. It says here: Our goal is certainly not to assemble something quickly now and collect short-term political points, but just like our ancestors in the time of the first republic simply to establish the solid foundations of our country's long-term investment development so that it belongs to the world's top again. That's what Baťa wanted. And Jan Antonín Baťa wrote it that way. Yes, we were in the world's top ten for Masaryk in the world of industrialized countries, economic countries. Bata has made us famous everywhere. Over the past few months, the government has carried out extensive data collection - yes, we have done a lot of work with it - which has been attended by all the ministries, municipalities, cities and regions, and you are reading the result right now. Yes, that plan was made by the communal, from municipalities, towns and regions, and we did it together. A common cause, yes. When he was a covid, me and the captain of Kuba fought together and wanted and protected the lives of our fellow citizens. But this government doesn't want to do anything with us. Why? You have to answer that for yourself. For the first time in the history of our country, almost 20,000 project projects, in the total volume of the circus 8,000 billion. The most important thing for us, of course, is the safety and health of our citizens. Yes, the safety and health of citizens. It's a disaster! This government has invited migrants, illegal migrants, smugglers. Are you watching the monitoring? In Poland, migrants and Polák are already beating each other. What about Germany? And what was in our house? The fact that those who made this decision and invited those migrants are their responsibility. And Mr. Rakušan and Mr. Fiala signed it! They signed. Crime? He's on his way up. The Russian-language mafia. You know, I've been thinking about what's going on with us. And that, and I don't want to scare, and of course it doesn't matter what the writers will write again, but after World War II, people came to France from North Africa who wanted to work because, of course, tens of millions of people died during World War II. They weren't people. They came to Germany from Turkey. The first generation integrated, everything worked. Only now is the third generation in a position where the French police are afraid to go to the suburbs. Scared! And in Sweden? There wasn't a generation. There are illegal migrants from 2015 to 2016. And that's where the police are afraid. In our country we have Ukrajinec, let's call it the same, let's say, first generation, those who came to us in the aggression of Putin in Ukraine - integrated, have the same rules as we work, their children go to schools. It's normal. Great. And now the government, because, of course, it's exaggerating with Ukraine, came those who fled before the war. The question is, everyone. And now we hear what's happening. Why did they have the benefits? Why could they go there for free - hentam and zoom and this? Why? 'Cause somebody's been rushing into politics about who we are, I don't know what we are? Yes! And it's causing trouble. It's already causing trouble. So those who came, and I'm not saying that everyone, and believe me, I know a lot of them... And we need them. We've accepted them in the past. That the government didn't do anything to trade visas in Ukraine, where the black Mercedes came in, pulled down the window, and when they gave him $300, he kind of got it. Or Vietnam. Because social democracy never wanted us to just take these people. How did it work out? Poland gives them the permits, so do the municipalities. And then they're doing it black. So the state is losing money. I don't want to talk about employment agencies that abuse people who don't actually do anything to the state. The problem that Minister Jurečka should really solve, although it is, I admit, very difficult. So, yes. I don't have a problem. Of course, there are x aliens living here, but today there are 1,140,000. Yes, it's more than 10 percent. And Mr. Rakušan has no idea who's staying here in protection. He doesn't know who he is. He doesn't even know their profession. The Polák dealt with it, they figured out a doctor, yes, and they did specially this health care for the Ukrajinec. So we don't even know here... We had a conflict here between the Rom and the Ukrajinec. Yes. Now I hear from people: always the nervousness that they sit there in the housing estates and scream there and people are angry, then they take their benches. Like, Prime Minister, try to go among the people, just like that, get an ad or take the subway like I do. I took the subway home again on Friday. You don't know what's going on in this country. And I'm very worried that this could be a big problem, not just the migration betrayal, your migration betrayal... But that's your responsibility. And all those who drown in the Mediterranean, that's your responsibility. Because the solution is clear: the ships must not sail! And we were solidarity, the ANO movement supported it. But there's no way those doses are being abused here. And our people rightly point that out. And we just want everyone who lives in our country to have the same rights and the same responsibilities - especially the same responsibilities. And even the Ukrajinec who came to us before the war point to it themselves and sometimes feel ashamed. So it's a problem. I don't want to make a big deal here, because when I asked the host, I mean, when I asked the Prime Minister about CNN Prim, how much did the Ukrajinec cost us, she said that what is the position of the movement towards Ukraine? Still the same. I just wanted to know how much it cost us. And the Prime Minister said he'd go to Brussels if he counted it all, I don't know if he'd already calculated that it was 45 billion. Well, that'll convince... It is a škoda that he did not do so within the Presidency. Too bad he doesn't know that Brussels only works if you block the European Council properly and do a deal like Morawiecki did. [[10.00 hours]] Why was Meloni there in Warsaw? Well, Meloni wants money for Italy, they got 1,100 million euros! And the Greek Prime Minister received 3.4 billion euros in 2015. And how much did we get? That's right, fellow citizens, 0.0. We didn't get anything. And we've signed this crazy betrayal. After all, those young people who come are armed. Everyone's got cell phones. Who made this mess in France? Well, that's all 13 to 17. Yes. So this is happening in Europe, and I really don't feel good about it, and I'm very worried about it. And it's a shame that the government doesn't realize that. So the safety and health of the citizens. Security. Security has been talked about, what's going on... Yeah, well, I forgot to tell you that I had a meeting on Sunday, some fans came and a lady was from the police, and she said, well, there's a lot of people leaving because we don't know if they're gonna take our salaries, because the government is still coming - Minister Stanjura came - we're gonna take everyone's salaries. And the cops. How much? 4 - 5 percent? Well, of course the policeman said, "Jesus, he's gonna take my salary." - So what's he gonna do? He'll take his pension. And they're supposed to make a lot of them teachers. That's good, they're gonna make money. But who will protect us? Who's gonna work at the police station? Are we gonna be afraid to go out? Do we really want to have that in Western Europe? I don't think we should let that happen. And it's obviously wrong, because our security forces, like the military or firefighters, of course, which this government doesn't support either - we have so many applications from voluntary firefighters on the foundation, like never, dozens of them every week. And the government doesn't give a shit. So that's the security. And the health of our citizens. So I was at the conference where the hospitals were, and there they actually asked the Minister of Finance if health was a priority. And he said he wasn't. Well... I always say, Madam Secretary of Defense, it's too bad he's not the Minister of Health, because I'm sure this plan - and here it is, Madam Secretary, 163 billion - would fight because she's fighting for the resort. [[He's turning to Secretary Black.]] Unfortunately for all of us. I thought if you won 48 billion in 2024... And Jurečka, the minister here, the poor guy only got 22 but he doesn't like retired people, he takes their money, that's why we're here. [[He's turning to Minister Jureček.]] Well, everyone's unlucky, minus 29 Minister Bek. But he says he'll take a loan. Well, I don't understand... [[With a smile.]] So the health department, Madam Secretary, is here on page 82 for 164 billion. You know, I deal with some cancer every week, and it's really terrible, it's terrible. Prevention. That minister of yours, he really didn't go well, I don't know, it would be good to do something about it, because he's a guy who actually solves everything except health care. And I'll tell you the plan that's here: Royal Vinohrady University Hospital, trauma center, 9.6. Faculty Hospital Ostrava - it is very long - 8.6, Brno. Please, Mrs. Schillerová and I personally had to push the officials into putting paper on the hospital. I went to the hospital, the chief, the gynecologist, and he says, "We need, we have three hospitals here or how many, two not, and we want to build a new one, and it's gonna be great. - Well, I like a challenge, so I said, "We'll take care of it." - So we did it because one of the Health Department officials, there's this little girl, well, that's hell, I don't understand how these people are there. Not to mention that the state, if it understood that, for example, it had to make its own project office, and it didn't compete - that's all delay... Well, we figured it out. Well, now you, actually, ODS, there's your chief medic, I think Mr. Kraus's name is, so it was the director... So build the maternity ward already. We managed the center of prevention at Yellow, Masaryk Cancer Institute, the only oncological hospital in the Czech Republic. I wanted to build even more modern ones for Pražák guys who hate me, so Pražák guys go to prevention - what's the term now? January, February, next year, of course. The General Faculty of Prague, please, is spread out in 30 places, for a 6 billion project. Hradec Králové University Hospital. Yes, here we have - svatý Anna, there were those snails, there's all concrete, and here's a project that actually brings something to people. Faculty Hospital Plzeň, amazing hospital, amazing, new pavilions... They have a heliport. Even the heliport here, the paramedics, hell, right? The first tender was stolen by 800 million, the second tender, when I criticized Snapper Nemecka, so Sobotka then interrupted my government, and then Lex Babiš, a normal businessman, if he owned the hospital, he'd buy a helicopter, he'd have his paramedics, and he'd either train the pilots or borrow them. [[With a smile.]] That's what a businessman would do. Well, then we have Olomouc here. Thomayerka. She's in the condition of being built by TGM. The pulmonary pavilion, there I was, furniture from 1960, still rats in the basement. They want central emergency reception. IKEM. Luckily, they're building the pavilion. Now you wanted to take out the principal, but if he wasn't there - and I don't want it to be a kiss of death - none of it is. Bohnice Psychiatric Hospital - big problem, big problem. Mental care reform, that's what we've been doing. Homolka, here are the 164 billion-dollar projects... 163. So, of course, if the minister, here, had written it down, and maybe he'd have other projects, he might as well have done it, but because it was under our rule, so, priori, you don't want it. And health was our absolute priority. Except, of course, people, except pensioners, except employees, but health care is an absolute priority. Unfortunately, this government doesn't. We don't talk about investment in our army for strategic reasons, it says here, but we're going to invest hundreds of billions in it. And you know, Madam Secretary, that we started and inherited budget 2014, there was 42, we ended up with some 90. Yes, you're fighting for it, I get it, you're a representative minister, maybe with the 2% that we supported, it could wait until 2020, we didn't know it would be at the expense of other departments, but I understand the situation. Well, here's the thing: health care is planning projects worth 163 billion. It is money that will be invested in the construction and renewal of hospitals and in the purchase of new medical devices. Yes, we were in the money we won together with our colleagues in Brussels, so there was the REACT-EU project. A huge struggle on the government, of course Maláčová fought for her department, each fought for her own, but I finally pushed because I was Prime Minister, so I pushed for $2.5 billion to go into the health system. Even small ones. Even to Nymburk, where the ODS is. We didn't look at who's from the ODS or which side. That's where 150 million went. And there's gonna be a new building in Chomutov 900 million. Yes, we wanted health care everywhere. The ODS has always privatized everything. Central Bohemia, all the hospitals were privatized, even Litoměřice wanted to privatize, we were saving Rumburk, in Louny there is an eldéenka hospital. So 22.5 billion, and you have to spend it by the end of this year. Yeah, that's very important. So we certainly - and no one is talking to us - I mean, two ministers from the government are talking to us, but I don't even want to say their names so they don't have any problems, even if it should be normal, but okay. There. The future of our planet is crucial and, of course, the clinical change, the fear of drought and the availability of water for humans, is written here. Furthermore, the construction of hundreds of ponds - So the way you work so far, I guess Mr. Černín and Schwarzenberg have ponds, that's why you're forgiving the tax for them now, isn't it? You're doing your friends' taxes now, too. - Wetlands, water systems connecting, dam building. [[10.10 hours]] My colleague Brabec told me that the dams we set up, we'll see. They should stand up, and the other ones we wanted, they say you don't want that anymore. Construction of millions of trees, but investment in nuclear and water energy sources. Yes, we've prepared the Dukovany. You guys were building this law, I don't know, what, 300 days or what? And you lied about Havlíček wanting rosatom, not at all. There was a security clearance, and it was absolutely transparent. And that Temelín where you had Rosatoma in the finals, the Russian company Rosatoma, you, the government, in 2012, right? That's how I remember the French ambassador coming to me and telling me how he got knocked out of the tender to the core. And I sure hope you don't get it on the line, that he wins the best. And I think it would be logical not only for Westinghouse but also for EDF to be there for France, which has the most cores in Europe. And it looks like somebody's made a decision somewhere, so let's hope so. But speaking of which, please, really, if I understand that - and now the founder of the ODS has described you very well, I wouldn't have allowed myself to do that, but it's funny that you won't do a tunnel of a la solarium again 600 billion or a church restitution 164 that you won't split the CEZ and the privates get the better part where business and the state stays the worse. [[With laughter.]] Well, let's hope that doesn't happen. And these energy projects are worth 625 billion. I read the interview of the new head of the Chamber of Commerce, where he keeps saying we're supposed to do something about energy. But I don't understand what he's talking about. There are three people who control energy here. We're all paying for it and what about the state. Yes, the state is supposed to pay off and privatize the entire ČEZ and base its strategy on that. But you don't want to talk about it. Even the founder of B.O.D., TOP 09, Mr. Kalousek said you should do it, so I don't know. That makes sense. Now you've paid a huge dividend to the outsiders, and if you had bought out the CEZ, the whole dividend could have been yours. It could have been yours. And then... at least one company would belong to the citizens, yes. We've still got woods here, Budvar, the top wants to sell again. And we don't have much left. Airport. By the way airport, speaking of which, there is going to be some privatization of CEZ and Technix, (?) Yeah. I heard again that the company made 5 million euros for us, and now for some mysterious reasons, it's only 5 million crowns. Well, Prime Minister, make sure your friends don't steal it. And let's move on. Traffic, I've read that before. Cyber security and the digitalisation of the state administration are areas to which I must pay special attention. We will invest around 113 billion in this area and, of course, we have not forgotten the government district, no 10 billion. [[With laughter.]] Government district. It fascinates me that a priori just because I invented it, no, I didn't invent it, I was at Macron's office in 2015, the Minister of Economics, and when I finished the meeting, I say to him, "Where is Michel Sapin - Minister of Finance?" He says, "Here, below me, on the fourth floor." Yes, Francie. That's where they're at. They have the synergy. And that was a five-year return project. Thousands of apartments could have fallen out of it. It could have been synergy, new museums. The Minister of Culture wouldn't be sitting in a nobleman's bedroom, but people would be there to watch the palace. Yes, and Bartoš wouldn't sit on Staromák Man. When Klára was sitting there and someone was playing guitar and she couldn't act, she went out and gave him some change so he wouldn't play for a while. Why? MMR - Minister sits in Old Town, when it is a historic building, which could also be a museum, imagine, also a museum. So there was a point. It would save a lot of things. Mr. Hřib, it looks like he's actually the mayor, because the current mayor doesn't work much there, but it's not a criticism, it's just a statement, he says we're not driving cars anymore. So all those officials could drive to Letňany along the circuit, even the subway works, and it had huge, huge synergies. But of course you can't, because Babiš. And believe me, the Araj in the Treasury department counted it x-times, x-times, the whole project. Yeah, maybe there was a new hospital. By the way, we haven't had a new hospital since the revolution. Only the handy director of Motol has a children's clinic and so on, a brand new one. That's a great project, yes. The return is huge. They'd relax their apartments and so on, but of course nothing. By the way, Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance has the State Representation Office in property matters. He's got a lot of property. Once again, when you say you want to save money, I ask: How much does a private company pay for rent? It's 600 million, is it less? So where are the synergies? By the way, Prime Minister, there's a beautiful building across from the Office of the Government, on the corner, it's a former spa, a historic building, a fantastic building, there was a prosecutor's office, and we had a program or a plan to reconstruct the building, and there were some officials to move there. There's geodesy around the corner, I think. I understand you're different from me. I wanted to show you here in politics. Yes, we fixed the National Museum, the State Opera, the new scene. The Minister of Culture is not here or the National Gallery. We fixed everything at the government's office, a lovely canteen, a beautiful garden, a wall. Supposedly, you're finally gonna be doing some room for your fellow journalists, but across the street, Prime Minister, it's a beautiful building, and if you were to reconstruct it, that would be great, because it would definitely improve the area around the Office of the Government. Here's where I'm going... I stress that the document you're holding in your hand, and unfortunately, I don't know if anyone kept it secret from the government and maybe at all, is our country's investment potential. In the past, the government had several resolutions on investment, but they never made it to the budget, let alone implementation. I've always been fascinated by how many such government resolutions there are. I remember, for example, the resolution on Litomyšl Castle that the government had passed, but then no one did. Because, of course, the minister has to take it and fight for it, for the project. And get the money. So he has to talk the Treasury Secretary, which is almost out of the question in your case. But with us, the minister came to me, and we went to Mrs Schillerová here and forced her to find the money, because politicians shouldn't just talk and have beautiful speeches. This is mostly what the Prime Minister is doing, and, of course, he is lying incredibly, but they should leave something concrete behind. We tried, and it would be good if you could finish our projects, but come up with something new. Our country has a huge investment deficit. It is also caused by complicated legislation. It takes more than five years for us to build a freeway for 13 years. Remember that farmer around Hradec, that was handled by the government 19 years ago. And by the way, when we started out, we had to make a new law on land purchase and so on. And the construction of a 13-year motorway is a real shame and a big problem for our country, because we are working intensively to change legislation, which would significantly simplify, digitize, especially speed up construction. [[10.20 hours]] Come on, you've changed the building bill Klára Dostálová was working on. I understand the mayors want to have that competence. But why? I don't want to say it, people will answer it. We are working intensively on the preparation of the amendment to the construction law - yes, we have finally completed this - and also the Act on Line construction. The whole law simplifies the authorisation processes and so on. This is where I finish writing. Finally, I would like to call on all of you citizens of our country for national consultations. I would like you to write down what projects you think are missing or redundant in the National Investment Plan and can be dealt with in other ways. Well, see, I forgot about that. Because we called on people back then - we set up an e-mail and some website - and people wrote there and we answered them because we were communicating with the citizens. So somebody wrote something, we looked at it, and we told him why it wasn't there, or why we put it there. We are prepared to complement the plan according to the ideas of you, the citizens of our country, who have something to say about this. We call it a "plan," even though I can already hear that someone can argue that it is not binding with deadlines. We can even call it a catalog, an investment magazine, a database, investment potential, or just another Babiš dream. Well, please, that's what I'm writing here, yes. I really wish this dream had turned into reality. We can participate together in what our country will look like in 30 years. We're doing this for our children and our generations to come. That's the opening word. This is such a big deal, it's according to the resorts. There are economic grounds and possibilities. So it's not something that fell from the sky. We've really spent a lot of time on this, we've put a lot of energy into it. This is the second chapter of the National Investment Plan, the next chapter. It's clear, and it's a shame... Chapter three, we have the investment potential of the resorts here, so right. We have it divided into the Ministry's investment actions from the Czech budget and the priorities attached to the subsidies, yes. So it's divided, and traffic has six billion. The second is the Ministry of Industry - 40, 23, billion. Not 6 154. So traffic has the most of it. Local agriculture is here and health - 163. Digital Czech Republic, sport. Well, it doesn't seem like there's only 19 billion here. If I took all the hockey stadiums, I don't know. Comet for 1.5 and Litvínov are there... so it's not enough, there's been a mistake. That needs to be changed. Sport deserves tens of billions. Yes, Czech tennis is amazing, fantastic. Wimbledon does. But that's mainly due to individuals. Before we came into politics in January 2014, how much was the budget for sport? 3.5 billion. When we finished, it was 10.5 billion. What time is it now? Funny five billion. So, Prime Minister, we've complied with the athletes and we've done the National Sports Agency. Yes, and you've got it under you. I had it under me as Prime Minister, yes. I had an x agent, I didn't create any unnecessary ministers, for the EU and the head of the science and research board, and so on. So I can see the sport here, it's not enough. So I say education, yes. Ministry of Education 46 billion. New campuses are here, regional investments are here, yes. Strategic areas for investment, industry, construction, raw materials, transport, energy, education, labour market. Everything's here, everything's here. Right. So the first pillar of industry, construction and raw materials. Second pillar of transport, Third pillar of energy. Fourth education, labour market and social affairs. Yes, we have the smallest bed capacity in senior homes. We are worse than Slovakia. Getting a place at the Alzheimer's center or the senior home is a big problem. That's what we wanted in Europe's money - especially I wanted it to be concrete, so it would be new homes, so it wouldn't be some kind of retraining for people who still don't want to work. Another pillar, business, business, research, development, innovation and digitization. Yes, we'd have to talk about our higher education. Why is it the main center of science and research in America? Why do they have such preference for sport and so on? Well, then the pillar of seven, regions, landscape and agriculture. Pillar eight - I don't know why he's healthy up to eight, it was supposed to be somewhere before. And culture nine, public institutions and security. Here's a list of sources, so we didn't take it out of our finger. Department of Transport. Transport policy of the Czech Republic for the period with a view to the year two 2050. Well, I don't know what the Prime Minister just discovered yesterday that Kupka discovered something when it's in his drawer. There is even a national strategy for the development of cycling transport or air transport concept for the period 2016 to 20, yeah. Truck to the right. Implementation of state cultural policy. Mainly, please complete our projects - Uherské Hradiště, Petrkov - a very important monument. That's what I started, and I don't hear anything about it. Here's a whole list of what it was derived from. So I'm sure the officials, if they're not afraid, will confirm it. This is what the innovation strategy of the Czech Republic is for. You're ignoring that, too. The numbers of support for science and research are clear. We wrote it all down. You haven't had much of a paper drop since the revolution. So it would be good if - I know that the government would ignore us. But the Prime Minister's even saying that there was not enough attention to the construction of roads and motorways. Prime Minister, here's a table. You were in the government of Nečas. That's not much to talk about. You were the Minister of Education. Just since you said there was a fee or nothing came out of you. Stanjura was at least trying to start those two sections on D1. So how many motorways started and put into operation in kilometers? 2001, respectable citizens, zero. 2011 zero. 2012 zero. 2013 - Attention, there's a number - 800 meters. Are you listening well? 800 meters started and put the motorways into operation in 2013. 2014 we inherited a zero after you. Then we started from 2015. Here are the numbers. When we left, we started 94.8 kilometers. We've prepared 300 kilometers of bypasses for you, everything. So I'm fascinated by the incredible insolence that the Prime Minister is going to say she wasn't paying attention. It's all documented, yeah. Citizens know that. Do you remember what the media did when there was a railroad accident? A yellow belt every day. Havlíček did something again, somewhere ripped off the wagon. When the D1 traffic was clear, it was Babiš's fault, yes. I went on Sunday after D1 and, fellow citizens, I warn everyone that there is three lanes and ŘSD - the director's health - did not indicate that you can't turn from the left lane to Benešov. [[10.30 hours]] So you're gonna take a nice ride, but good... And of course, when I was Minister of Finance or Prime Minister, I'm famous for the micromanagement, so I'm looking to see if anything's going on there on Sunday, if anyone's building. I called right away! [[In an elevated voice.]] Why don't they? I remember down there on De Three. So, it's slow, and I firmly believe that it's not true what I read in the media that there's no money for the České Budějovice bypass. Now that you've done the tunnel and you're gonna throw a billion or so into that tunnel, it could have gone down the surface, and it could have been done long ago, so it would have been scandalous if you hadn't found the money. So we have it all on paper. And this book... it's called Babiš's moci, of course, for the fact that, as the joke was this morning, it's all written here. [[He's showing the material.]] Everything. Even the health services we put 229 billion extra in, all the resorts, we did that after... And in politics, I've always written everything I've done. Last time Vice-President of the House said that what we did in the government - well, yes, in the first Sobotka government, we fixed public finances. It was a surplus budget, we transparent it from the Ministry of Finance. It wasn't stolen in environmental contracts, we've discounted it three times, three times. There was prepared the tunnel, there with (?) Someone tried to rob, but I think up to 100 billion they wanted to steal in those environmental contracts. So I'm just sorry that it's basically impossible to communicate with the government about these things, because, in short, when the Prime Minister is so biased and he can lie like that and say - nothing was done - and now he's saying he's pushing someone, I don't know. [[unintelligible]] I don't know who he was pushing. Then maybe he'll take care of it. But the fact is, those people who go shopping in Poland and Germany are getting more and more, and the fall, the drop in consumption, it's totally dramatic. Well, it doesn't matter to the government, here's the article again - officials fly like weird, sometimes more expensive than the president - it writes, it... it looks like a neutral medium that will become part of the Anti-Babish Message List, so they won't be writing it anymore. So it writes - no savings, no. Once again, Prime Minister, you can set an example. [[Unintelligible]] Forbid all consumption. No Fidorka, no Rocher Rocher, no breads - water, coffee tops, so I wanted it. Release 100 people at the Office of the Government for nothing, forbid the purchase of IT, save. [[unintelligible]] And forbid it for all ministers. And the secretary, let the economics fly to Brussels, I also flew as Minister of Finance for Economics. It wasn't until I was Prime Minister that I flew that special you just gave to President Zelenský. So you're not saving up. You're saving up for seniors. People are worried about the future, you're raising taxes, because of course the whole prediction is about taxes. Well, your results are... of course the retail turnover is dropping, down by 12 percent, yes, people are afraid, saving - and the fact that it will have a clear impact is clear. I have an analysis here. You're still saying how the old people - I'm going back to that scandalous statement that it's an economic loss. So we retired people - I have a conflict of interest again - are an economic waste to you. All the pensioners who built this country, thank bůh, are an economic waste to you. But by the way, pension expenses are only 51.1 percent. So it's not like that. You're incredibly manipulating the budget. And of course, people who can't see in it applaud you. And of course, people still live on savings. 900 billion in our government, yes, we cut taxes and the abolition of a super gross wage was the right decision. And I don't care what those theorists say, those economists. And, fellow citizens, always look at who he is, the man who works, where he's been, who he's been with, those independent experts, okay? And again, in that media space about inflation and so on, the only independent is Professor Švejnar, but after this performance, I don't think they're gonna invite anyone, not even the Czech TV, which, of course, cheers for this government, cheers for it, and likes it... no. [[ho]] So the Prime Minister has spoken after the first meeting of the Government Investment Committee, and Mr Kupka has prepared a plan for the Czech Republic to have a much improved motorway infrastructure within ten years. Well, Mr. Kupka didn't even have to prepare it. But I didn't see the specific plan. When will the highway be ready for Karlovy Vary? 2025? When will all the highways be ready? Why didn't he use the word PPP? So these are the press releases. And it was called the evening broadcast, I don't know how much it was. [[In?]] Well, awful. You don't normally know if he's crazy when he sees it. So there were those representatives, yours, the obsessives, who knew nothing about it and who didn't represent any employees. How many employees are they employing? How much? Nothing. Chairman of the housing squad, stolen Bakal's apartments, OKD, unbelievable. But I understand you covered everything so there's no problem. You give the media tens of millions to be nice. So the Prime Minister says, some analysis, we'll study the analysis... the Chamber of Commerce. [[Worked up?]] And Mr. Kupka, that's the only thing that came out of it that he had a plan. But he should make it clear when the motorways will be completed, when Prague will be finished, the Austrian border across České Budějovice, when Hradec will be the Polish border, Hradec, Olomouc. We said the numbers. We did presentations, and we went to ŘSD, and that's where we presented it. So the priorities are up to the completion of the Prague Circuit - that's good news, so let's hope they do, they've got more than two years to do it - and I repeat, here comes the synergy between the Magistrate, where there are five coalitions, and the government, we didn't have that, we pirát threw a pitchfork into it and they didn't care that it had an impact on people, but most importantly, we didn't create something together, no. Then he's talking about the department, it's fascinating to me, I'm completely shocked that one-- wait, who's he talking about, yeah, here-- he's gonna need investment funds for transport infrastructure up to 300 billion in 2026 to 2027. [[unintelligible]] That's more than twice this year's. But, of course, he says that one of the major recommendations is to separate the investment budget from the current budget. Okay. So Mr. Kupka tells us - we're gonna have some budget investment, we're gonna borrow money for ten, twenty, thirty years, that doesn't belong in the budget, but that's genius, but I don't know if this is illegal, because it doesn't seem normal to me. But I talked about it yesterday with Minister Stanjura, not publicly, but here I asked him - and, yes, he claims, SFDI has a different income from the state... and that's basically why it's not in his budget, but it's in his debt, yeah. If the loan's due, then if the SFDI doesn't have the means, then, of course, the State will pay. And that's logical. [[10.40 hours]] So that's the main thing that fell out of that committee where the government, tripartite, and three deputies actually sit, who are politically servile to this government and who don't know much about business. Then Mr. Jurečka responded to the press conference, talking about, yes, that we lack people, they're not people. But, Minister, see how it works when companies want some scientific worker to go to their foreign firm, what kind of Martyrium brings someone here. And that, of course, is the issue of the black market, the issue of personnel agencies, the issue of not being people and not people. And this is definitely where the government should have a program. The Prime Minister was in Vietnam, I was never there, but all the more we worked with Vietnam. We pushed through and lobbied Skoda's car to make Skoda in Vietnam, the Prime Minister cut the tape there, but we had a personnel project, yeah, because our Vietnamese citizens know they're hardworking. By the way, when I was dealing with EET, mostly in the country were all Vietnamec, those little businessmen. And we had a project there that we would be mainly for our health care, a project where we get young Vietnamka to learn Czech, at least 3 - 4 years and then they could work with us somehow. Well, at the time, the in-house, the socians, they didn't want that, they thought the community was, I don't know, weird, I don't consider them, I think they're people who are integrated with us, and they're a plus for the Czech Republic. So I don't know where our government's gonna get these people, and how the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is gonna figure it out, if that's what I wanted, and unfortunately we never had that resort, so when someone is unemployed and has a job offer to get her to join. And if he doesn't get in, he can't get benefits. I remember one of the employment offices I visited in northern Bohemia, so - yeah, I gotta go, I got some interview - we met with the boss, the head of the employment office, a lady who's unemployed, and she says, "You got a $30,000 offer." Are you going to work? And she says, "No, I want to sing." She wants to sing, so she's unemployed, she takes benefits because she wants to sing. Well, I don't know. Well, I guess most employees wouldn't like that. So I have an interview at CNN at 11:00, so you're lucky I'm not gonna tell you any more, but I might still be there. Thank you for your attention. Again, I call on the government not to liquidate retired people because Babiš is a retired person. Retirement workers built this country, we're supposed to be grateful to them. Yes, they got the money, but it's still little, and they deserve a decent life. Thank you and goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u9	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Mr Bělor from 12 to 14 for work reasons, Mr Černý from 11 for family reasons, Mrs Malá from 13.30 for family reasons, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová from 14 for family reasons, Mr Sadovský from the full working day, Mr Vondráček from 10 to 14 for work reasons, and Minister Šalomoun from 12 to 18 for work reasons. Just a little bit of information. We obviously found an earring here. If some ladies, maybe wow, if I don't touch someone, miss this ring, they're here with us. If you tell your colleagues, there's an earring. Thank you and now Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, allow me to take advantage of my priority right and return to the debate that I opened here last week on an extremely topical subject. I raised the debate here about how hot holiday days revealed the consequences of the ideological struggle of a government five-calice with an electronic record of sales. I talked about how it is increasingly difficult to pay by credit card during walks in Karlovy Vary, in camps in Sázava, in Vranov or at a music festival in Ostrava. We discussed the tsunami of non-cash payments. I shared my own experience, which is not limited to Prague, but also to Brno and Moravia. Unfortunately, the experience that is published daily in the media and the experience of other Members have not been able to get five-wheelers to discuss this issue. I would therefore like to put forward two further arguments today to discuss the five-calice policy, which sends the Czech Republic back to the wild 1990s. According to STEM/MARK's survey, a quarter of the population of the Czech Republic has experienced an increase in trades that do not accept payment by credit card and require cash in the last year. Moravan are most likely to face this problem in 32 percent of the cases. The survey conducted in July of this year, I repeat in July of this year, found a significant increase in the use of cash. But this problem is not limited to Moravia or smaller cities. You will also encounter this phenomenon in Prague. Almost a third of Czech citizens, 33 percent, use cash every day, while last May it was only 25 percent, i.e. one quarter. Cash is paid at least once a day by 37 per cent of men, while in women it is only 28 per cent. We must be aware that one of the reasons why small retailers and restaurants in small municipalities introduced cash-free payments was the compulsory introduction of electronic sales records, and thus a forced step towards a certain degree of digitalisation. I always repeat that the Czech Republic is not only Prague and Malá Strana. In small towns, credit card payments are often not standard and ATMs are also often missing. Customers must therefore have cash. I would like to make it clear here that I am not one of those fanatics who only wants and demands payments through payment cards. Last week I shared a picture of Monument Valley in Utah on my social media, where you won't pay in the middle of a popular reservation without a card. It's not a problem. So why should this be a problem in the Czech Republic? Payment only through a credit card is also not an ideal solution in my opinion. If we wanted to introduce payment only through payment cards, I would be one of the first to respond. However, it is absolutely essential for me, and I wanted to illustrate with this story that it is important to choose freely whether the buyers will pay cash or via a credit card. It's slipping away now. And here I come to my second argument. However, this cash-only tsunami and the impossibility of choosing customers between cash and card have far-reaching consequences presented to us yesterday by the Minister of Finance Stanjura on the budget committee. After all, his performance was very interesting. For example, he admitted for the first time that the income from the modernisation fund of CZK 50 billion in the state budget is only at the level of his wish. At the same time, he stressed that he did not suggest that he was a different colleague, another member of the government. Yes, he literally said that here yesterday, but, of course, logically, he didn't give the colleague's name. But then, of course, he said with one breath that he voted in favour of the budget. [[10.50 hours]] So, for my more than three quarters of a year, the questions I'm asking here, and the questions of my colleague Richard Brabec, the shadow minister of the environment, where the 50 billion came from, we found out yesterday, you can all play that from the Chamber of Deputies stream, and we learned yesterday that when the Treasury went to the government budget, there was no 50 billion income revenue. I know that from EKLEP. It wasn't. I'd also be surprised if one of the officials was willing to sign for it. Well, he wasn't. I know them well, the experts, they wouldn't sign up for it in their lives. So the $50 billion in income came out of the government. But the minister told us: I did not suggest it, it was suggested by another government colleague. It wasn't me. I also add that it was proposed for both the budget of 2023, and the medium-term outlooks of 2024 and 2025. So three times the 50 billion that suddenly fell from the sky without legislation, without notification. No one knows how they got there. And the minister said it wasn't me, it was him or him or that one. I won't say the name. But I voted in favour of the budget because I could just raise my hand for the budget. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable. I was shocked yesterday. In absolute shock. I've never known a finance minister like that for God's sake. I hope this episode will end in perspective, and it will never happen again. Every single finance minister who was in our governments in modern history, whatever party he was in, had any political preference, and, of course, projected that policy into budgets, so he did his job honestly. Honestly. That's it. by budget rules, by law, as it should be done. This is the first, I dare say an incredible case that has simply appeared in our modern history. There's more of those things. There's over 20 billion missing from social areas, that's extraordinary valorisation, plus some social benefits, of course, all for mandatorial expenses, that's not there either. SFDEI is now going to take a loan of 24 billion, so we're going to make a deficit in SFDI so we don't have it in the state budget. Yeah, that's gonna go into our debt and our debt to the public finances, so what? That doesn't bother the Minister anymore. And I'm not even talking about the planned loan of 137 billion that the government wants to take, where they approved the plan, and they want to sign it by the end of the year. We don't know what the interest is. For ten years, I'm only paying off interest, it's only supposed to be about 50 billion in interest, we've been told by an expert who's in charge before last. After ten years, the principal will be paid back. What about the exchange rate risk? Course risk? This government, ladies and gentlemen, has gone to the election to consolidate public finances and to save, and will save by weighing down generations that are born in 2040. Well, that's pretty cool. I think yesterday's budget committee is going to go into history. And back to the cash only connection. In several controversial statements, because the negotiations took quite a long time, however, the Minister of Finance has completely disappeared information, which we read from hard figures, that the prediction of value added tax collection is reduced by almost 16 billion. So what the Ministry of Finance predicted when the budget was being drawn up is now reducing by 16 billion, and that was left there in one sentence: Well, it's decreasing consumption. Clearly, consumption is decreasing logically, we can see that. I mean, she wouldn't go down if people had nothing to spend their money on. But most importantly, I would have been on the alert in the finance minister's place a long time ago and had a detailed analysis done. There's no way to say that in one sentence. That's a very, very alarming signal, you like the word signal, so I'll just use it to compare it. The first two waves of EET were proven to have brought 13 - 14 billion crowns. Now we're down by 16 billion. Don't those numbers look like you? I'm sure I do. Not to mention the third and fourth wave, which according to the Ministry of Finance's estimates are not my figures, has created less than 8 billion more. So we simply reduce, on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance reduces the prediction of the collection of value added tax by CZK 16 billion. I have no reason not to trust the Treasury experts, and on the other hand, EET would only bring us the first two waves of 13-14 billion. They've brought them in conclusively. so if we take into account inflation and a certain probability, because I don't want to argue and I will never claim that every entrepreneur goes into the grey zone, he won't go away, but he will bear the weight of competitiveness. It is quite clear that the abolition of the EET has a significant impact on the lower collection of value added tax. But it doesn't end here. The domino effect continues. Because the Minister of Finance is unable to secure effective collection of existing taxes, he must increase taxes. That's logical. Our logic of the YES movement was to ensure that the taxes were paid properly by all. Therefore, control reports, therefore the end of Karusel's billion-dollar VAT fraud. Therefore EET, therefore the fight against transfer prices, therefore Tax Cobra etc. I could go on. This is gone. On the contrary, the pulley fell off, the client's approach to financial management was introduced, which they undoubtedly interpreted so that they should remain calm, well, and the EET was cancelled. Tax Cobra, when was the last time we had a healer? The numbers that the Treasury recently presented are the numbers when we were done, our government. There's no shift in an inch. This is what we saw last week when we were discussing the tax package and the proposal of the Minister of Finance Stanjura and the entire government to raise taxes by 73 billion. This is so eloquent that this finance minister wants to take a tax discount for students, families with children, raise or cancel kindergarten fees, double property taxes for property owners, and at the same time proposes to increase the prices of motorway stamps, but cannot effectively collect existing taxes. That's pretty obvious. They don't collect taxes, we raise them. Unfortunately, his approach to tax collection is that he absolutely cannot or does not, because the EET was the flagship of the government of Andrej Babiš, the flagship of Andrej Babiš as Minister of Finance. So this government, this finance minister, does not want to ensure a level playing field on the market. So, under the pretext of a proclient approach, the financial administration first got rid of the most functional tools to slowly put the system down. Instead of actively addressing problems caused by ideological stubbornness, the Finance Minister systematically builds up a passive and latent organisation that forgets that its main clients are honest citizens and honest entrepreneurs. So instead of actively using data from the control report of the fight, against tax fraud, dealing with the decline in declared sales, or, again, the Tax Cobra project is dedicated to the financial management of celebrating the release of its own well-functioning control analytical teams. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to ensure a thorough analysis of the cash only phenomenon and its impact on public budgets in the Czech Republic, because according to the information provided by the Finance Minister himself, this problem is still more serious than I originally expected last week when I first spoke on this subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, and now, please, another registered, and this is Vice-President Klára Dostálová. You mít the slovo, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. I have recently promised, it is already flying, about a month ago, that as soon as the new figures are made on the drawing of resources from European funds, I will inform the House regularly, because I consider it very important. Yesterday, the Ministry of Regional Development published a draw in June, and I think that we should really put all the effort together to draw European funds. We talked about this in part yesterday on the budget committee, where Minister Stanjura has 20 billion in the balance of European funds plus 20 billion, but unfortunately we have to say - and yesterday we also talked about it - that we already know that we are most likely not to come from the National Recovery Plan this year, which is the second and third payments, because they are not able to meet the milestones there, so we take it as a certain constant, which the Ministry of Finance has already admitted to the media. I wouldn't want to pursue the National Recovery Plan today, but it is the Kohenni programmes, which is the Operational Programme of the Environment, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, entrepreneurship, employment, education - we really have a whole pládu. This year the old programming period is ending for us, which means all the money we can ask for by the end of this year. I can't move it to the next year. There, of course, if the last certification would take place 31. 12. 2023, so it is clear that these payments will take place until March, April next year, but we have to ask and we have to close all these projects this year. It was all the less pleasant for me to find that when I told you around the beginning of June, when I had the May figures that the Czech Republic had to be certified or asked for European resources, it was minus 85 billion at the beginning of June. That means 85 billion for all those operational programs by the end of the year. Well, what a surprise it was when I opened the numbers for the month of June, so you'll be surprised, but it's minus 86 billion. You tell yourself how it's possible, it's supposed to go down, why it's going up? And here I would like to point out to the House of Honor that we need to realise that, given the enormous amounts we are moving in, we have a very high emphasis on the exchange rate, because the crown has probably slightly weakened, which has actually caused us to have more resources to use than when the crown is strengthened. So the amount went up, and that's why it's actually minus 86 billion. But according to these numbers, it means we haven't certified anything at all. It's just nothing in the month of June. And I would like again to appeal to the Minister of Finance to actually come to the fact that he will certify every month. I'll tell you on specific operating programs. It is not possible to take en bloc for all operational programmes because each operational programme has its managing authority. And worst of all - and I will name only those operational programs that have a certification of about 70 percent - the most difficult thing is the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which has a certification of 74,4%. When I look at how much is paid to the beneficiaries of this program, so when we talked about it in May or early June, IROP should have certified about 31.5 billion, which is 4.5 billion a month, when you divide it by June, July and so on. And when I look at the June numbers, the MMR is supposed to be certificationing 30 billion, but you're going to divide it by less than a month. I'm asking where the MMR will take it to certify about 5 billion a month, where it'll take personnel capacity. And here it really is necessary for the resorts to agree to certify everything that has hands and feet, because it is not money MMR or money of the environment, it is money of the Czech Republic and it is really alarming when we take money from pensioners here in the second breath so that we do not know how to drain these large resources like the Czech Republic. The second programme, which ranges to 78 percent of certification, is the Operational Programme for Fisheries, but it is a very small programme, which has approximately 737 million crowns available, while the Integrated Regional Operational Programme has CZK 148,5 billion at its disposal. At the same time, 323 risk projects for CZK 20.7 billion are defined here. So if we take it that we know that there's probably no payment from the National Recovery Plan of 20 billion, we have an identified 323 projects for 20.7, so it's CZK 40.7 billion, which, of course, will have an unfortunate impact on the state budget as such, because if the payment doesn't come, then of course, the deficit will increase. So that's how I'm gonna go to the Honored House every month with the pumping. So I will probably come back in September within the House, and I will inform you again about the progress we have made in the summer months, but I would really like to call on those operational programs that have such problems not to be afraid of the unpopular steps, because if these projects aren't able to do it, I'm saying again, insisting that we're going to lose such huge billions here, it's a misconception. On the contrary, these projects that have problems should stop, see if they could be phased, for example, that means that part of the project would be paid from this period or from 2014 to 2020 and the second part could be financed from 2021 to 2027. But it is necessary for someone to devote themselves intensively to this on a daily basis, so that we can stage these projects and make quick use of the money that remains there, for example, for some fast-circuit challenges, for example, for the purchase of some devices and so on, where it is needed - or for digitization. I'm a little out of line here, but we just need to find some projects that would be a quick turn, but not a project project, so that it really has the added value for the Czech Republic. Again, I'm alarming that today we're on cohesion numbers minus 86 billion, which is definitely due to the exchange rate difference, but instead of falling, it's going up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u13	Thank you. The next one with priority is me, so I will take turns with Vice President Dostálová for a moment and thank her for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u14	Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u15	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, I noticed yesterday that the first meeting of the Strategic Investment Committee had taken place and, frankly, when I heard the press conference of Prime Minister Fiala and other actors, I felt that the Prime Minister had returned from a faraway country, that a professor from a two-year internship was arriving somewhere in the United States and had many interesting ideas, but somehow he did not see what had happened here in the last two years. No offense to your own committee. Personally, I think it's a useless platform, unnecessary activity, because it's more or less a widespread tripartite, but it's not my place to judge, so let the government or the Prime Minister decide. From my point of view, we don't need committees, but we need results. And that's what I want to talk about, because, Prime Minister, your self-esteem and action is starting to get very close to zero. Or do we really think that people are forgetful that they are so disconcerting that they couldn't judge what's going on here? For example, you argued, Prime Minister: there was not enough attention to the construction of roads and motorways, we do not even have high-speed lines, so we are beginning to weaken our competitiveness. Well, don't lie, but you have to finish. To me, it looks like poachers who are caught in their own traps because you know when attention was not paid enough to the construction of roads and highways? Yes, it was between 2011 and 2014. That was real waterloo traffic, with everything. But it was a government in which you, Prime Minister, were also in, among other things, some other officials from your government, such as the Minister of Finance Stanjura, back then as the Minister of Transport, but I don't blame him so much, because he was really only there for the last few months. [[11.10 hours]] A few numbers - in 2010 it was still in transport - from my point of view good - 96 billion crowns, in 2011 to 2013 it was between 62 and 65 billion crowns a year. And do you know how many started then, not how many finished, how many new motorways started to be built then? [[Has it started?]] Because it's an indicator of government activity. Between 2011 and 2014, you started, listen carefully, 800 meters of new motorways. Well, that was logical, because if it withdrew from 90 billion to 60 billion, it had to end immediately what is called the preparation and launch of new buildings. Only the old ones commuted. Yes, it was indeed a time of darkness, it was a time of your reign. The Ministers of Transport took turns there on the clock and the Minister of Finance literally wiped the floor with them. Eight hundred yards, you've begun. And logically, it was the result of cuts, cuts, cuts. The change occurred only after four years of transportation. Yes, it couldn't have been the first, second or third year, because the buildings weren't ready, but then we started construction like we never did in history. Do you know how many we started between 2018 and 2021, those four active years of our government, the new highways - I mean, they started construction? One hundred and seventy-eight kilometers. Once again, Prime Minister, you have begun 800 metres, your government. That's not ten times more, it's not a hundred times more, it's two hundred times more, two hundred times more we've started building -- sort of new highways -- than you. [[Did they start?]] Do you know how much investment we've raised in transport infrastructure? From your 65 billion to 130 billion in a few years. We started the first PPP project - 32 kilometers Strakonická. Nobody's agreed to do this here for 20 years, 20 years ago. And the one they tried -- the government of that day, it was a fiasco. We built record number of railway crossings - 150 to 200. We reconstructed over a hundred railway railway station buildings every year, building record bypasses. And you've made a negative statement about the fact that the drills haven't started to get ready. Well, do you know who started preparing them? It's our government. Our government started a feasibility study and prepared the first projects so that the drills could begin to put together in more detail at the moment. Your government, and now I mean your government's real, or this government, I don't mean the one you were in and who did the Waterloo traffic here, so you drew your transport budget at CZK 151 billion, which I think is a good number. We gave 130 billion, you picked it up in two years. But you're not saying it for B anymore that you refused to give the Department of Transport money. You left them only 120 billion crowns and the rest, in the end there were 24 billion crowns - so far. Preliminaryly, the Department of Transport has to borrow it, they have to borrow it at interest. Great management. So you're actually saying we're investing, but we're not giving you the money, and you can borrow the money. So it's about the same as when you say we're increasing the cost of education, but you have to borrow the money. Or the same as if my honored colleague here, Minister Černochová, needed an investment in some military products, you said yes, you can buy them, but take a loan for it, but take it with a ten-year delay. It'll be four, five percent, and then we'll see. Well, then we'll see, somebody's gonna have to pay this off, and that's what bothers me. Either I can do it, and then I'll invest it, or I can't do it, then I have to admit it. However, I still have to appreciate Minister Kupka, because he really has an effort to continue the investments that we have launched. And if you weren't going to rip off the Ministry of Transport and even rip off this year's debt, I basically don't have any bigger complaints about the ten-year plan that Minister Kupka has prepared in principle in substance logical. The problem is different. You know you're gonna need CZK 300 billion a year for that ten-year plan you introduced yesterday for transport? Three hundred billion crowns a year. Today you give 120 billion crowns and the rest, the twenty-four, the Department of Transport or the SFDI must borrow. So I'm wondering what this ambitious plan is going to be - and really right in the matter - from what we're going to finance it? I was wondering. But next year, what are we going to finance, where are we going to get the resources? Do you know that drills will cost us almost one b trillion? That's extra. We have to build roads, highways, bypasses, we have to build corridor lines, we have to put another 100 billion into security, which is extra spending again. Plus, we're gonna get drills for almost a trillion bucks. True, in the following - maybe 20 years, but that means someone will have to start funding it. And I wonder, then, from what? You say PPP. Well, maybe something from PPP, yes. And it'll be good if you follow up on PPP, we support it. But we're not going to finance what you're missing from PPP, that's 180 billion extra to the budget, which we can assume is at least going to be repeated, at least what you gave this year. So in addition to the PPP projects, if God willing, they'll be in 2025 at the earliest, maybe even a year later. And until then? So you're shaving the Department of Transport and at the same time bragging about a plan that you don't have covered, and yet you have the nerve to say that we haven't invested in the past. It's the exact opposite. So much for the traffic. Next thing you know, what was said yesterday was unbelievable. Please listen carefully to what I will quote: "We must also change energy policy, otherwise we will not be competitive here either. We will define the obstacles that we must stop so that we can invest more effectively." Please, who's texting you? Is he serious? Please read it after yourself sometime. As a major obstacle to the industry, it's in the Minister of Industry. I might be happy that he's not doing very well there, but we really don't wish you anything bad anymore. I'm already in a situation where we, as opposition, wish you success, which is completely insane, but we're really worried that this isn't going to end well. What are we talking about here? More efficiently invest in energy. That's really high school. It is - continues the successful Czech press conference in its form. It's like you did something about it, so I'll take it, but you're just talking, and maybe you're just bragging about other people's feathers. Why don't you please take care of Temelín, two more blocks? You've been in government for one and a half years. In two and a half years, we have completely prepared Dukovany with everything. Everything - investment plan, financial model, supply model, we passed the law, we discussed it at European Union level, taxonomy and so on. I don't want to go back to that. I'd like to see if this wasn't ready, what would you do about it? You did one thing, and you sent it to three pre-prepared partners. But I'm saying this because the procurement documents already have been able to get involved and get the supplier involved in the next two blocks in Temelín. Can't we see what's been happening here for the last year and a half? Don't we see the trouble that we're gonna need the core? Why doesn't it come out? Why don't you say, as a government, we'll or we won't build this Temelín? And if it is, it will be then and then. It doesn't go any further than it's going to be after the fifth Dukovan block, which means sometime in the '40s, and then it's going to have to go to the sixth Dukovan block. But why aren't they talking about it? You're talking about wanting to make efficient energy investments. Here's one in front of you, so please make a pretty decision. Maybe even negative. We're gonna fight, we're gonna say we need to, you might not. But I have a feeling we agree on this here. Then why don't we talk about it or what we're waiting for? You've been there for a year and a half. Question, how much longer are you gonna be there? Well, at least let him stay behind you. You're just criticizing, you're laughing. You've done nothing on your own. How about we look at the possibility of investing in a company today that is a gas carrier NET4GAS. Yes, it's a good time to invest in this company or GasNet, which looks like it could be for sale. It's the distributor again. We didn't know that one was a carrier, the other one was a distributor, the biggest gas distributor. That's not what I'm talking about. What have we done for this? At least play the game, discuss it, try it. There won't be a better opportunity to buy it than now. For many reasons. Even with regard to the international situation. You didn't cause the gas to be completely in the hands of private players today, I'm not pushing it, it happened some 20 years ago. Unless I'm supposed to pass on the fact that it was at the time of the apology, but that's what I'm standing up to. It just sold at the time for CZK 120 billion, and we don't have any of that gas in our hands, nothing at all. You say you want to invest. All I'm saying is, here's the opportunity, the possibility. ČEZ - it's the same. What did we do? What have you done in the last year and a half? I know you can tell - you and Čez didn't do it to get a hundred percent there either. You're right. We prepared some models, there was no energy crisis at the time. [[11.20 hours]] And I wasn't even blaming you for saying we have to take some time. But, Prime Minister, you said in July last year, it was exactly a year ago that by the half of 2023, that is now, we are already halfway there, you will prepare a model of how you will solve ČEZ's restructuring. There's more to it than that. I understand it's not easy, it's been quite a long time, one year. What did you do? You didn't do anything! You didn't come up with anything. You have submitted the Lex CEZ law, which looked completely catastrophic, and your Member here is somehow questioning it. So you're saying - I wouldn't say it, but you're saying it yourself, and yesterday we have to prepare investments in energy. I'm just asking, what have you prepared in that year and a half? Another area that you opened up beautifully yesterday. Carve those lyrics into the stone! The job market. Listen carefully, please. In order for the Czech Republic to develop adequately and to keep up with advanced states, it is important that we ensure sufficient labour market workers, whether qualified or unqualified. We need to get people into our labour market from abroad effectively and safely, and we need to take steps to speed up the arrival of people from abroad to our labour market. More joy for a better tomorrow! Please, who's writing this to you, Mr. Secretary? Are you serious? All you have to do is say one thing to get more people to come here. Nothing more, nothing less. Keep the curls! We know the problem is we don't have people. We raised the Ukrajinec quota from 10,000 to 40,000, and it wasn't easy at all. We were arguing with the CSSD back then, with the unionists, but we pushed through it on bloody terms, I have to say, I wasn't feeling very well about it. We even had to set the minimum wage for these workers higher than ours. The secretary of finance remembers when we had to retreat. But we did. We simplified the arrival, divided it into three groups of workers and so on. But - and this is self-criticism towards us - not enough. It just wasn't ideally done, but it's slowing down all the authorities today, especially the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, throwing it over like hot potatoes, companies swearing, and unfortunately it can't go any faster. It's a little better, but we didn't make it. To this day, I'm blaming myself for not being more active and more emphatic in this, and for not making the arrival of those workers easier for the companies. But that's reality. You had the perfect opportunity to do something about it. Do it! Do it! Tell me what you're gonna do about the inside, what you're gonna do about foreign affairs, when it's gonna be, what you're gonna do about it, who's gonna organize it, who's gonna take charge of it in that government. That's what I'm quite interested in. And I'm not saying it badly. But please don't tell us here that we have to take steps to speed up people's arrival. That's really crazy. And finally, a candy. Did they? you're there, it's beautiful: you need to improve the use of artificial intelligence. That's really wisdom, that's great. That's what you need, you're right. I think if artificial intelligence were running this place, the state would have done better. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] But do you know we've prepared an artificial intelligence strategy? Yes. And you know that we had this strategy worked out, that there were action plans, that it was our flagship, our country strategy for the future, and so on. And you know we were top of the line in this area? And do you know that we're going to hell with the artificial intelligence that we're losing to the world? I mean, who's been standing there for a while is standing there. And that's the question of really a few months in that artificial intelligence, and we're going to lose. And I'm sure you know, Prime Minister, because you're an academic man, that the basis for artificial intelligence is good research. We spent a lot of time with him, and we put a lot of time into it. Now, look out, drawer. No doubt you know, or study it, please, that you support over 100, well heard, 100 research centers in the Czech Republic. That in itself is insane. In my view, a third of them are unproductive, inefficient, the question is whether they will have a future. But so be it. You support 100 research centers. Tens of billions of crowns are in it. And you know what you did? An incredible masterpiece, not one of those research centers is for artificial intelligence. Neither! So one of the flagships, our business card, something that everyone, hopefully non-politically, has to admit that it's what we support and what makes sense, bene, in something that we've been very good at and we've reaped success and respect all over the world, so we don't have a single research center for artificial intelligence. And you say you need to improve the use of artificial intelligence. Please wake up! The economic strategy needs to be developed as a matter of urgency. It's up to you, of course, to take care of her. From my point of view, he should be the Minister of Industry, but he's already packing suitcases like I registered. So it needs to be taken by someone who can survive at least that year and a half, two, maybe another two and a half years. And that economic strategy needs to be accompanied by the concept of industrial, transport, scientific, education, agriculture. Among other things, for many of these areas you already have strategies prepared by us or you have prepared, and not bad, I will say education 20, 30 and so on. This must be linked with the outlook for public finances, otherwise it is impossible. You have to figure out what debt will be. We just have to say what the structural deficit is going to be and so on. How it's going to go down. That's all up to you. You determine the parameters, we can argue, but it's up to you how you set it. But you have an ideal opportunity to do so. We didn't have it that easy. We were in a minority government, and we really had to walk around with a hat in our hand to give us a poodle. You guys have the luxury of having a hundred nines or a hundred eights today, and you can get it right. Yet you didn't. And that's what you need to follow up on the investment plan that you're trying to represent here in this selection or whatever it's called. We had our strategy, we had Earth for the future, and we had an investment plan. And you could have updated it, you could have said -- we don't like this there, you could have improved this, you could have done this one way or another, I would have taken it all. You put both in the drawer and formed a committee. There! So at the moment, you don't even have a strategy, you don't have the money to invest, but you want to make strategic investments. You're not gonna figure it out. (?) Please, but just start doing something, because these are really just empty functionary phrases. And since it was said yesterday, I thought it was right to open it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u16	Thank you, too. And now, with priority rights, President Okamura is at the council. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage of the opportunity to speak before the opening of the third reading of the Purple Government proposal, which you want to rob of the current and future pensioners and the valorisation, because we simply have important issues here that need to be discussed and, on the contrary, to reject and reject your proposal on the pensions. See what the situation has been like for the past week. Prime Minister Petr Fiala was here bragging publicly, and I would say completely inappropriately and absolutely incompetently, by lowering inflation. The situation is so, not only does the government support inflation, but also the price increase continues. So I don't understand how he can even talk about it, how Prime Minister Fiala can even talk about something, that maybe the government was dealing with something or that there was a positive situation. He boasts completely senseless, and this is what he said when inflation last month in the Czech Republic, in June, is 9.7 percent, which means once as high as it is in the European Union at all, it really isn't for bragging. I think it's a complete failure. I would like to add here that the lowest inflation in Europe, because the European Union is not equal to Europe, so it has Switzerland and Liechtenstein, it is 1.7 %, and these are countries that do not have the euro. That just needs to be emphasized. That's what I'm adding here. But let's go to inflation because, based on the latest data from the Czech Statistical Office, I don't know who always explains it to Mr Premiere because he explains it to him somehow badly, or rather, as we know the Prime Minister, he will always lie down and adjust according to his own, so according to these data from the Czech Statistical Office, it is evident that inflation continues to grow in the Czech Republic, only slightly slowed its growth, which is due mainly to the high last year's comparative base, when inflation rose enormously rapidly and significantly. It is not true, and all citizens see it on their wallets, it is not true that goods and services in the Czech Republic are cheaper. As I said, the annual inflation rate was 9.7 % in June, which is still one of the worst results in all European countries. So I really have to strongly turn against the untrue information that is here over and over and over and over again for months, basically all the time the Petr Fiala government is here, says Prime Minister Fiala, when he's actually inflation, which is 10 percent, so he's saying it's like, maybe something's getting cheaper or something like that. It's completely nonsense. [[11.30 hours]] On the contrary, according to the data of the Czech Statistical Office, the Fialův Government has completely failed and is failing because the prices of many types of goods and services are even rising monthly, not only year-on-year. So if I look at it specifically, it's summer now, so we're going to increase our vacations by 8.7 percent, even month-on-month, increase in vegetable prices by 5.1 percent, increase in potato prices even more expensive by 22.1 percent. I don't know, the Prime Minister probably doesn't go shopping, or, as we've read, at ministries and offices, so they spend tens of millions of crowns there, we've learned now publicly, it's been done here, you spend tens of millions of crowns of public money on catering, for luxury refreshments, it just brings it to the ministry. So you probably don't know what basic food costs in the Czech Republic. Otherwise, the Prime Minister couldn't have just said that. Of course, as far as the year-on-year comparison is concerned, when I return to this year-on-year comparison, the prices of natural gas rose by 39.8% in the Purple government, the prices of solid fuels by 35.2 %, the prices of aqueous by 16.3 %, the prices of sewer by 26.9 %, the prices of electricity, in which we are self-sufficient in production, so increased by 24.6 % and the prices of heat and hot water by 40.7 %. In the food sector, egg prices increased by 28,8% year on year, vegetable prices increased by 28,2% and sugar prices by even 50,3%. So I don't understand how the Prime Minister can interpret this here. I think all citizens see the reality. I would really like to call on Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the Fialův government to stop, so I would say, like, absolutely incredibly fooling citizens, so they can finally start working and solve this expensive thing. Citizens have already called this expensive, nicknamed it, it's called the Fialův. Your government just gets more and more nicknames. The Prime Minister of Fial is called the Ukrainian Prime Minister. The Fialův Government is called the Ukrainian government, not the Czech government. They call her the Purple's Expensive. It's just facts and it's just reality. And these data that I have reported here are the really important and telling official data about price growth in the Czech Republic, because they affect irreplaceable goods and services of daily needs that have a direct impact on the declining standard of living of Czech citizens. That's what you have to say here. And I would really like to know what the government is really going to do with the expensive one. Because, as we know, energy prices... That's not at all how you're making excuses for Ukraine because of the conflict in Ukraine. Because, as you know, annual growth in gas and electricity prices is essentially the highest in Europe, and, on the contrary, the surrounding countries like Poland, Slovakia and Hungary are below the European average when it comes to growth in energy prices. Even Hungary is a country that has the lowest increase in gas prices throughout Europe, thanks, of course, to the bilateral treaty that they have with Russia. But that's basically the condition. So I absolutely don't understand it, or I understand it, because I know Prime Minister Fiala that Prime Minister Fiala is bragging about some kind of decline in inflation, but inflation is high here. I would understand if inflation here was at the Swiss level of 1.7 percent. But to interpret 10% inflation as a positive, that's incredible, I don't know what to call it. It's just a mockery to the citizens in the face. And I just had to comment here so that the Fialův government would actually start working instead of this eternal deceiving of people. At the same time, we all saw last week, or the week before last, that the debt of the Czech state increased, actually broke, overcame the magical limit of 3 trillion crowns. That's an astronomical thing to do. It's 3.099 trillion crowns. That's the reality. And I would really like to challenge the Fialův Government with this, and I'm already calling you here all the time to do something about it. But that, of course, is futile, these challenges. So you should just step down! Not to mention the decline in real wages now. The decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is 7.5 percent, which is the highest decline in real wages within OECD-associated countries, which are essentially OECD countries, these are all more developed countries, they are essentially combined there. So here, it's just proven, completely proven, completely objectively, throughout the entire reign of the Fialův government, that year and a half, so you've thrown the Czech Republic into the worst numbers, which are also compared to other countries. Of course, we have now seen other current surveys, when the survey for the Mladá front today revealed that 55 percent of employees already have problems with income. Of course, I've already commented. And that is a very serious matter. Here with the members of the Fialův Five-Calice government, this information will not move. But I think you need to talk about this, because the moment you touch it, and you've already touched the elderly, you've already touched disabled citizens. Now in that bill of yours, in that consolidation package in quotes, he's not consolidating the package, is he, that's a rip-off package, so you're punishing hard working families with children. And now, really, there is a situation where people of working age, that is, those who make up the GDP of the Czech Republic and go to work, pay contributions from the state and from their wages, so you have now put it into a situation that 55 percent of employees have problems with income, that is, the people on which the economy of the Czech Republic essentially stands, so you throw them into poverty that they can't come out of their wages. And I think that's a really, really fatal situation. The problem is growing. And when I read this analysis, the situation is that people who go to work, so they don't make a living, that actually over half of people have a problem with income, and a large part of them already have to touch on their basically last savings in the sense that they have to pay the necessary daily spending that they need to survive. So it's basically basic electricity, gas, food, housing and so on. That means the situation is really serious. And in this context, I'm just opening up the debate here, and the government officials should definitely express what they want to do about it. Because you've been doing nothing about it for a year and a half. But you are really throwing the Czech Republic into completely unsolvable problems. And here I would like to reiterate and adjust the mirror to how you voted this year here in the House to increase the salaries of politicians. You guys voted for each other to raise the salaries of politicians. This is unbelievable. The SPD voted against. I'm the one who put the proposal here to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term. You guys turned me down. SPD MPs are only 20. You have a majority here. But if only you hadn't at least grunted at the burrows so loudly. But you, on the one hand, add your own, and as we know, you put tens of millions of crowns on luxury snacks on catering at ministries, but you're shitting people out of your skin. And I'm really warning you about that, because it's a really big problem. Here I would like to mention another news that has now taken place through the public space, and it is further proof that the Fialův Government is bringing more and more citizens into poverty, because our citizens are saving and buying much less than in previous years. [[11.40 hours]] So there are two aspects, of course. The first is that sales are falling, so, of course, the revenue of the state from VAT and other levies is falling. It goes down in the sense that it could be higher and the Czech state is losing money because of this one I would say incompetent politics. And secondly, of course, it is obvious that people are really getting into an emergency because retail sales in the Czech Republic have been falling for 13 months in a row. That means, that's exactly what he's copying - the Fialův government started, and then, of course, it got this trend. And in May, the decline in retail sales was 6.1 percent, but in April, the decline was 8.4 percent. Again this follows from the data of the Czech Statistical Office. People save and buy much less than previous years. And here I really want to stop by a few numbers, because almost 60 percent of our citizens have reduced food purchases, including those of the so-called middle income class. That means, you basically already have your attitude, your incompetence, I'd say dilettantism, you're basically interfering with the middle class, but they're carriers of the economy, so that the Czech economy works in some way. So even the middle class has basically already had to save money on food purchases and on the poorer people, about the lower middle class, I already talked about it, I often talk about it, that these people are really in need, many of them, a million people on or below the poverty line, they are statistics even six months old and the problem is obviously increasing. But the fact that 60 percent of our citizens have reduced food purchases, of course, is already totally affecting the middle class. And if we look at it more specifically - the survey of the Akcniceny portal.cz for the Young Front today, this decline is the most minor for vegetables, which is purchased by even 59 percent less than last year. As far as meat is concerned, 57 percent of the citizens were reduced compared to last year. So, of course, these are very important numbers. I don't know how he wants to deal with it - now there's a new Minister of Agriculture for KDU-ČSL Mr. Výborný, who has never done agriculture in his life, so I think it's the food prices that it's a topic. That they have cheaper food in Poland, I've been pointing it out since last spring. The SPD has repeatedly suggested that VAT be reduced to zero to selected basic foods, but the Fialův Government is simply doing absolutely nothing about it. The main cause of this situation is long-term inflation, or expensiveness, which causes the purchasing power of Czech households to fall rapidly and rapidly. Fialův's government doesn't fight inflation. On the contrary, by the measures you are planning and are already implementing, you are making a significant contribution to inflation. I have to say that even from these data that I'm saying here, and it's just objective data, it's the Czech static office and so on, so basically the situation is already going beyond the critical limit, and millions of people are forced to use their thinning savings to pay mandatory monthly expenses. And here I really must point out that this situation, where honest-working people are not enough to pay or pay for a decent life and must limit even food consumption, is simply a completely unsustainable state and is unacceptable in a developed society. I guess we all imagine the developed company a little different. I think that, as the SPD sees it, we want to direct the Czech Republic to the most advanced countries in the world, be it Switzerland, be it Japan, be it those of the most advanced countries in the world, but the Fialův government is heading us in the opposite direction. So basically your government is already doing virtually non-refundable damage to citizens of the Czech Republic today. And that needs to be emphasized, because when you got in, there was something else that could be reversed. The SPD movement, as I say repeatedly, is our ambition to be in the next government, we want to be in the next government and, of course, all the harmful measures taken by the Fialův Government, we want to abolish. But now what you're doing, it's already irreversible damage, and that's a really big threat. Not to mention the loans you're taking from Europe with decades' maturity, when it's just a flood after you. It's a style - after us the flood. And that's really, really awful. By the way, in this context, when I started talking about the European Union, of course, as I said here last week, citizens see it, and according to the latest survey by the CVVM, most Czech citizens do not trust the European Union. Only 46 percent of Czech citizens trust the European Union nowadays, and even with regard to the institutions of the European Union, that is, the European Commission and the European Parliament, so only a little more than 30 percent of citizens trust them. This means that most Czech citizens already see that the European Union has failed, is failing, does not trust it, but you just keep, you're still pushing this policy here, which most citizens of the Czech Republic just don't believe anymore. I would turn here and just point out that the SPD movement is the only party in Parliament to advocate a referendum, including the possibility of a referendum both on foreign bases in the Czech Republic, which are promoted here by the Fialův Government Coalition along with the ANO movement, the SPD is the only party against the presence of US troops and foreign bases in the Czech Republic. We don't want any foreign soldiers here in the long run from the east or west, that's unacceptable for us, so we're against it. But we're alone here, we're opposition party 20 against 180, there's 200 MPs, so that's the situation. As for the expenses, I would say the outrageous spending of taxpayers' money. So I was interested in the information about the Prague tram, which was left by the politicians of Fialův's five-calice government, i.e. ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and KDU-ČSL, to encapsulate with Ukrainian labels, Ukrainian colours and Ukrainian stickers. And, of course, we do not agree that public money should be spent in this way. As we know, the Prague Capital Transport Company has already published what it cost. So it cost 243,82,60 kroner to cover the tram. That's $250,000. You have a quarter of a million crowns on Ukrainian streetcar stickers, but you're sitting here shitting people's faces. And that's not the only expense. I've already mentioned that you've created three extra ministers, you've created extra secretariats here, a record number of political deputies. I had to laugh, I heard some argument from the exponents of the Fialův Government that, after all, the political representatives - they say it's nothing wrong, over 40 political representatives, a record number of political traders and political friends you've anchored on ministries, each of them costs hundreds of thousands a month - there's said that there's more of them, because in the past governments, they were also professional Deputys, and now they're not. So you forgot to say that these technical vice-chairs are senior directors at ministries today and so on, so basically they've given them another function, so of course it's an increase. And the fact that there's a growing number of officials in your government, we all know that, that's what we've been talking about a lot, everyone knows that, that's also an objective fact. So, really, in your government, there's a trade fair for your fellow party, you're handing it out full of handfuls of public money, and now, of course, you're spending all kinds of money on this kind of thing, and here you're proposing a total tax increase to all Czech citizens. [[11.50 hours]] Well, I'm gonna go back to that visit by the Ukrainian President of Zelenský, but I want to talk about the expenses of the Fialův government, you gave him that Czech government jet to travel around Europe every now and then. Because I didn't get the answer last week to the question of how much it cost, and I think it's necessary to do it, to include the Gripens as well as just the emergency that the soldiers, the police and so on, so the amount will, of course, be in tens of millions of crowns at least, because I didn't get the answer, so I just wanted to let you know that on Monday I submitted a written interview with this question and I submitted it to both Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. That means you have to answer me in 30 days. And since Minister Černochová is sitting here right now, I would also like to ask you to give me a specific answer on how much the total cost of that flight, including everything that was around here, as I was talking about it. If you have any difficulty figuring it out together - I don't mean that personally, but that there were a lot of accompanying costs, as I mentioned earlier, I'd be happy to answer that question. That's what the ministers did in the last parliamentary term when I asked them, so they came to me and they said, we're processing it, so if we can agree, that's how they called me that it would take a week longer to not have to talk about it here. So I'll welcome this information, too, if you're working on it, and maybe if it's a few days later, of course, just make sure it's right. Of course, I'd hate to get information that we know maybe a government squadron has to fly some clocks and stuff like that. That's not the information I'm asking for. I'm asking for information on how much it cost. So that's what I'm saying in the presence of the Minister in advance, so that the answer isn't that way, because there's really no need to make fools of citizens. Citizens are waiting for that answer. And when I published this request, when I was talking about it here in the House, each of you can look at my social media. Just the video where I just called on the Fialův government to calculate the costs, so it has a total of over half a million playbacks on my social networks. It has between half a million and a quarter of a million playbacks, which I think, given that the Czech Republic has 10 million inhabitants, so obviously citizens are interested, it has a record number of laymen, it has a record number of so-called hearts, depending on what network it is. This means citizens are really extremely interested, and they are extremely interested. This post with the challenge was one of my two most successful contributions from last week, successful equals playing half a million on my networks. The other was the challenge when I called on the House President here to take down the flag of the European Union and the Ukrainian flag from Parliament, which the citizens also very much acknowledged, given that, of course, most of them do not trust the European Union and we are in the Czech Republic. So, of course, it had the feedback that I expected, because many citizens see it the same way we see it in the SPD. Just about the interpellation. I'm glad Secretary Černochová is here, she's sitting next to me, so I'd really like to ask you for an exact answer, so I don't have to ask you again, so it's not the kind of answer that's undercover. That's no secret, it's public money. There is no more security at risk, either, because the Ukrainian president is no longer here. We're just interested in how much it cost to tell the public, of course, because the citizens are telling me that they're waiting for the information, exactly how much it cost. It's like the tram in Prague with the Ukrainian sticker. We asked about it, too. And then the transport company posted it on the basis of Act 106 on Access to Information, and it's that quarter of a million. And the citizens will evaluate it, the citizens will, of course, be indignant, at least those citizens who have similar opinions to the SPD, and of course they don't like it at all. So that's just the way it is, but it's your decision, and of course you have to defend it politically. Of course, we do not agree with these expenses. On Monday, I filed the interview in writing, the answer is 30 days, so I really expect a very specific answer. Let me just point out, while the secretary is here at the same time, that even from our constituents, who are in the army, who are in the police, I have information that they may have had planned vacations and couldn't take vacations because of the visit, they had to be at work, please include in these expenses and these infrastructure expenses, which means the people who just worked were at work and so on. The expenses were really monstrous, I think it's obvious. But now, of course, we need to know the amount and the amount to get to know the citizens mainly, because it's their money, it's their money. And I hope you don't hide it from some unspecific answer. We really wouldn't like that, and I'd have to ask it over and over again, of course. I am not satisfied with some unspecific answer - I say in advance, so I call for the answer to be quite clear, so that it is one answer, and so that I can give the citizens the information that is clearly of interest to a huge number of citizens. So that's one thing. Now that I'm looking at the board that's on the agenda today, of course I know that, it's the Fialův Government proposal to rob current and future pensioners about the pensions. So I think there are other just important topics. Of course, we do not agree with the robbery and we will vote against it. After all, we've already made a motion to dismiss. And in this debate, our Member, SPD Šafránková, will also make a motion to return to second reading. But what I'm interested in here is how things are going with the EU migration pact. Because we have repeatedly called on you here to join the position of Poland and Hungary in the Fialův Government. This is the position when they rejected, rejected the EU's migration pact, the Slovák at least abstained. So the only country in the V4 that actually screwed all of our partners in the V4, you screwed them over, so the Purple government that compliments messyly... is that you're kissing the ass in Brussels, and basically you're screwing the Central European region here. And we have repeatedly called on you to stand up for Poland and Hungary, and you haven't. You, without us, have agreed to the EU's migration pact. First of all, with the Government's mandate, the Minister of the Interior and the Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement, who wants to move African and Islamic migrants here, an absolutely incredible thing. The EU migration pact also contains quotas for migrants. The Maďar pointed that out at the meeting. And basically you are here about us, without us, decided that either the Czech Republic will accept African and Islamic migrants, or the Czech Republic, or citizens of the Czech Republic, will pay from its taxes high clearing, otherwise I cannot call it, in the amount of CZK 20,000, CZK 500 000, CZK half a million for each rejected migrant, which is absolutely unbelievable. This means that there is really a threat that billions of CZK will be paid, we will pay to countries that accept these illegal migrants, inadaptable illegal migrants, it is a shock, or we will simply have to accept them. So here again, I'm going to stress that the SPD wants to be in the government, and we're going to cancel the next decision of the Fialův Government, of course, and we're going to face it. Here I would just remind you that Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki has already said that Poland wants to declare a referendum on this subject. And it's exactly what the SPD has been saying all along. Referendum. Referendum on these matters, because I am convinced that most citizens of the Czech Republic do not agree with this. [[12.00 hours]] So that EU migration pact you really want to destroy the Czech Republic, destroy us completely. Today, as we know from statistics, every tenth person who lives legally in the Czech Republic is a foreigner. Of course, the ratio is even higher in those major cities like Prague. So the citizens are already very complaining that they no longer feel like the Czech Republic in many places, such as public transport and the like. It's another country, another country, isn't it? So there's no way this cohabitation is ideal. Now, of course, the problems with the migrants, as it is summer, are escalating again and again. If you look in Germany for example at the swimming pools, lifeguards are sending an open letter - there are already some swimming pools closed for security reasons - and they ask whether they either close it or whether there's constant police surveillance in those swimming pools. That's just the situation today. Of course, the situation continues all the time, it escalates since 2015. I already pointed out migration in 2013. It's the only thing I've been pointing out here. It was these politicians who are in the Fialův coalition and so on, along with some journalists, that made me some kind of haunted and that it was some kind of xenophobia and some sort of racism. They were just saying this completely incompetent nonsense, just that they were just trying to turn the public against me, even though I was telling the truth. I've been the only one pointing that out for ten years. I was telling the truth, and I stood by the truth, and I didn't move, and I stand by the exact words. Despite the constant threats, despite the personal attacks on me, it turns out I was right. I never got out of the way, and I'm just saying the same thing, and I'm not changing my mind where the wind is, there's a cloak. So we need to talk about this. Trouble is, these African and Islamic migrants aren't some fridge or washing machine that we don't like, we're gonna throw out on the street and then into the dump. The problem is, of course, they're people we can't get rid of. That's the problem, yeah. That means pointing to Germany with the fact that it's not the same with us, it's nonsense, because it won't solve it in Germany, it'll never get rid of them. But we can still save this social peace and security by not bringing anyone like that here. I'm making it clear to the SPD that I don't want any of these African and Muslim illegal migrants here, I just don't want any of those here. I'm telling you straight and attack me all you want. It's just that I want a safe Czech Republic where we know exactly who lives here with us. I want to move among flexible people, not inadaptable people. So what the Fialův government is doing here is really a shock! You normally destroy the Czech Republic completely live by agreeing to the EU migration pact here. I was also interested, of course, in other current numbers when I was watching and monitoring what might have been written by the famous Austrian daily Die Presse. That was interesting how they wrote about how much they cost the migrants they took. And half of all the Syřan who stay there, and 1/3 of the Afghánec receive welfare benefits. It means they're inadaptable, it's just a liability. It really needs to be rejected and prevented. There was an interesting quote from the Director of the Vienna Labour Office - I didn't mention his name here now, but I read it last week, and I'm sure you can track it down - which frankly said that these people are mostly illiterate. That means they're unemployable because they're illiterate. So even if they wanted to work - which they largely don't want, of course, they want soot doses, they are typical inadaptable people, which we see in Western Europe too, we see it everywhere - so there is a problem that they are illiterate. There are no teachers and doctors like these Brussels activists here, the so-called sunshinemen - these are the ones representing Fialův's five-calice government - as they were trying to talk us into. As part of that, you kept attacking me for haunting and like this. You just lied on the air, including many journalists. Not all of them, right, they're not all the same, I'm definitely not gonna throw them all in the same bag. I know a lot of decent and serious journalists. But that year 2015 was totally unbelievable. Turns out the SPD is just right. The SPD was established in 2015. I've said it before, of course, since I was a senator. So I pointed it out here, and there was no haunting. That's right, that's right, that's right! Well, look how it looks in France, yeah. That means we really don't want it here and I'm saying it again and I'm saying it frankly, I don't want any of these inadaptable African and Islamic migrants here. I say frankly, not the spread of Islam in the Czech Republic. Think about what you want. I don't want any mosques here, I don't want anything like that. We're the Czech Republic here, and I don't want any trouble here. What we're seeing in Germany, where the Muezzin are just calling for Mass, and they can hear it -- there it was, I guess, in Cologne -- just across the city, it's a really scary situation. What a scary situation! If I turn around, if I wanted to build a Christian church in Saudi Arabia, I think it would take a while for a rock to come at me. Or if I wanted a beer on the street or a swimsuit. That means they won't adapt to us. We can't follow our culture with them, but you leave them here for politicians like you to do the Eldorado. This is simply not a balanced approach and it is a very dangerous approach. So this is the migration. I simply consider it a threat to the Czech Republic, a threat to Europe. Of course, this must be prevented by all means possible, by all democratic means. Laws, including against the European Union, must also be amended against the opposition of some of these politicians, the Fialův's five-calice government. It is necessary to adjust the laws so that what happens in Western Europe never happens here. It can never happen here. But unfortunately, the Purple Government has agreed, voted in favour of the EU's migration pact, when the European Union wants to give us an epidemic of inadaptable migrants from Africa and from various Islamic countries who, of course, will bother and parasite here, and will only be a burden, and crime will rise here. It means, I just really don't want women to have to be afraid to go out so they have to be afraid to wear a short skirt. I think the security situation is already unbearable in this regard. Look at the subway, how everyone protects their purses, how they protect their things, so they don't get robbed by some pickpocket. This is the situation now in the Czech Republic. It is the result of current governments and current governments. I warned about this about a month ago that criminality in the Czech Republic was rising sharply under the Fialův Government. I've already challenged - it's about a month ago - it's normally official police numbers - that there's an increase in crime. I asked the Home Secretary what he wanted to do with it. He didn't answer. He doesn't want to do anything, he hasn't answered what the solution is. So he answered very foolishly, which is already an incredible arrogance, that it is said that the year-on-year comparison is based on the year of covid, so there was lower crime and now naturally increased. What's he talking about? The ambition of any government and Home Secretary should perhaps be that crime is as low as possible here, so that crime has a downward trend. He's still defending it. He is still defending the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and says that it is okay in other words, that crime is rising sharply here, the number of murders is rising, violent crime. I listed it all to you a month ago, and I didn't get a suggestion from the government about what they wanted to do with it. Nothing. [[12.10 hours]] Minister Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement, nothing. He just doesn't deal with it. But instead of what he focused on last month, he went to the European Union and approved the EU's migration pact in Brussels, that is, accepting migrants to the Czech Republic. This is unbelievable. So this government is strictly anti-national. It's a harmful government that has to end. So, on the other hand, you're going to meet, you're going to make crime worse here, to increase social tension, and to make problems here. That means you don't solve crime, you don't protect Czech citizens, you don't actually catalyse it, the whole problem. So that's a really big problem. And I think that... we want to deal with it, but the Fialův government just doesn't want to deal with it. So today the polls are that only 30 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic trust the Fialův Government, as we know from the surveys. As we know, only 20 percent of people trust the Prime Minister Pekarová, so I suspect that it is even the least popular politician in the Czech Republic, the least trusted. And in a standard country, in a standard democracy, you've already had to step away from each other. [[Wouldn't]] Okay, you have a government majority here, but if it works normally, there has to be an exchange, there has to be an exchange, at least a personnel exchange, for someone who would work for the citizens and do something positive. This means that I wanted to discuss the migration here... this much more closely, because - and I pointed it out in the spring, the rising numbers and the seizures of migrants and the Czech Republic - it was also here, and the representatives of the Fialův government have downplayed it. And these arguments that most of them don't want to be here -- they're all here -- and they're going somewhere in Germany -- that's a lot of stupid arguments, because we're in Schengen and our borders are like a colander, of course, so, of course, the migrants can come to us freely. And as we know, when I mention the rape of a teenage girl in Lukavec near Terezín, who only went home during the day, among the villages, and she was raped by an African migrant. And then he got two years, I guess, after a lot of resistance... There was resistance, the appeal penalty finally gave him, I guess, four years, the maximum rate there is ten years, so it is really a mockery to the Czech citizens at all. [[Court]] Meaning he raped a normally underage Czech girl in Lukavec near Terezín here in the Ústí Region, a migrant from Germany, a black migrant, an African migrant. So he's still here... we're still... He'll have heat here with us, food, and then he'll be banished somewhere. Well, that's unbelievable. I think he's such a person, maybe more powerful... He deserves to be neutered. I just don't see another thing there because he raped a teenage girl who goes through the day, basically goes to her house, so that's an incredible atrocity, and give him two more years and then appeal four years when the rate is ten years, so that's really ridiculous to everyone. And only that again... that, of course, arouses the legitimate concerns of the citizens. It was called Diallo or something, but it's everywhere, it's been mediated, of course. I remember being bullied here by an editor of the Czech Radio - I've already forgotten her name, but it's also everywhere, it's traceable - who bullied me here in the lobby, here in front of the House Hall and attacked me and made it a campaign against me. He said what evidence I have. What evidence do I have because I was the first to publish this case? So, of course, I didn't... I'm not asking for an apology, nothing, not even from the Czech Radio, because... and then she fell apart like wasps and other sunshine media, who I'm told I said I said that, and what evidence do I have? Well, I had a source in this case that I didn't say. And of course, after a few days, it turns out that I was right, and the rape actually happened, and as many of you know - or maybe you don't know - the trial has already been carried out. So that's how the public-law Czech Radio works, unfortunately, they're attacking the person who's gonna stand up for raped underage girls against an illegal African migrant who came here from Germany. But of course I put up with it, I did it, even though the attacks were absolutely outrageous, from some so-called sunshine media, towards me, which I'm supposed to be taking, and that's really incredible. And I was right, of course, and I'm glad I said it... Despite the attacks, the SPD protects our decent citizens. The SPD protects our decent citizens, and we will always stand by them without fear, even against this, against the political correctness. What is interesting is that all this happens after joining the European Union, when even in the 1990s - and many people tell me that, many people tell me that, even the people around me, we were not afraid to say anything after the Velvet Revolution. It was really a time when we talked, we openly spoke our views. Today people are afraid of being intimidated, intimidated, even by the Fialův Government, you're promoting censorship. [[Because...]] You simply label people who tell the truth or freely express their opinion as disinformers. That's insolence, that's so shameful what you're doing. You even did the top censor function last year, that was Mr. Klíma. The ODS did a job at the Office of the Government - the Chief Censor. This can't be happening at all. And only after massive media pressure from our side, from the opposition, did you cancel that post after a long time. And you guys were planning some kind of muzzle bill. It means, it's incredible how far you're going, when any opinions that are not in line with Fialův's government policy, you automatically call disinformers, pro-Russian, yet it has nothing to do with it, for, I don't know, they're some defense attorneys Putin or whatever, just lie to a lie, that's like the heavy totalitarianism that the Fialův's government is showing here, and also a lot of citizens already have that feeling, because citizens are really afraid to tell their opinions. Ask when you go among the citizens, ask ordinary people at some city festivities, some of these events, whether they are afraid to say their views. And a lot of people tell you basically -- they're really a lot of people, they're not individuals -- they're afraid to say their opinions at work, they're afraid to say their opinions publicly, so that they don't get persecuted in some way. This means that this is the situation that Petr Fiala's government has put on us here, that is, those who protect themselves with democracy, but you are the greatest opponents of democracy, see - you fundamentally reject the referendum law, and on the contrary, you are the biggest threat to democracy in the Czech Republic, because the totalitarian manners you have here are really, really insane. It's crazy. That means anyone who says, who says anything other than your official government line, you just smear it, spit it, label it. That's exactly what they did for Hitler, and that's exactly what they did in the '50s under communists. I haven't experienced both, I've only known it from books, of course, I've only known it from stories, as we all have here, I suppose, almost, but that was exactly this time. And I don't want to be here, I don't want to be here. And of course, whoever most escalates this way, this atmosphere of fear in society, threats, fear, and the one who most divides society, is Prime Minister Fiala and President of the House Pekarová Adamová. bezesporu. And so, of course, citizens see it and evaluate it by losing confidence, because Prime Minister Fiala at the moment that you disagree will always say that they are all that we are populists and extremists in opposition. [[when]] His favorite saying. We're two opposition parties here, he's always thrown us... They throw us in one bag and say that the opposition are populists and extremists. He doesn't have an argument, he just spits the dirty spit, he just splits the company, he pisses one over another - that's Prime Minister Fiala and the same thing, like the President of the House Pekarová Adamová does. Just turn people against each other. Cause tension in society. [[12.20 hours]] To cause discomfort, to scare people, to threaten. And that's just a real problem. These two politicians are the ones who divide society most and piss people off against each other. Citizens just see it now, and I think it's wrong. That we should be heading towards a society where, first of all, we're going to be telling each other truthfully what's the problem, so you're going to nod to the EU's migration pact here, you're going to agree, and I'm saying it's wrong, but you're saying it's a good thing. It's just not possible at all, but it's like I'm talking to a Hotentot. It's just not normal. You say it's good that the Czech Republic should accept African and Islamic migrants. I'm saying it's wrong. But then we can't even agree on that, because if that's how you see the difference, that's how you have diametrically different opinions, then I don't understand how anyone can even say that. That's a real problem. And in the light of these problems, when we simply have expensive energy, there is high inflation in the Czech Republic because of the Fialův Government, once as high as it is in the European Union, so of course you are proposing here now, you want to make a final decision here today, because this is where the final third reading is due to take place today that you want to reduce the proper valorisation of pensions, abolish their extraordinary valorisation, and significantly aggravate the conditions of early retirement pensions, including their reduction. I don't know what to say. Did you make any positive suggestions for the citizens here for the year and a half you were in the government? I did not notice one positive law that would improve the lives of citizens in the Czech Republic in a year and a half. You didn't bring either here, or you didn't enforce it. Nothing. If I merely recapitulate it, you have been pushing the pandemic law hard here, then this year you have pushed for health insurance companies, 14 billion crowns, and this of course makes access to health care worse, and I think the citizens see it, especially after you have taken those economic migrants from Ukraine. I'm surprised no one's hitting when I say that none of the government politicians are hitting the bench. Of course, you took economic migrants, because as the Czech Railways, and my words are confirmed again, and I said it here again as the first last year, when everyone attacked me, I stand by it, I will not move, my words are confirmed again. The Czech Railways, as well as the Student Agency, increased the number of connections to Ukraine. It even happened after I started talking about it 14 days ago, so it started with the mainstream, it confirms, the title on the Nova TN.CZ TV server that the connections are rising sharply, increasing connections to Ukraine, because they are going on vacation and coming back again. Normally, it's the title, even the Nova TV server. While I've been saying this, I've been saying this all along, so you've been banging on the table, spitting on me, getting me dirty. I was most dirty by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the time I said this, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the time I said that, he was saying something, that for Putin, the Proputin, the pro-Russian again, the lies. And it turns out it's really economic migration. To a large extent, yes. So you pay hundreds of thousands of people, up to hundreds of thousands of people, to be exact, our social benefits and support from our money, from citizens' money, to economic migrants. That's totally unbelievable. That's just normal, if you weren't politicians with immunity, then I think it's normally a criminal offence involving the management of public property, because that's not possible. After all, in quotation marks, a fugitive returning on vacation to the country from which he fled, the country is therefore safe. So part of it's fighting, no one's questioning it here, but most of the territory is obviously living quite normal, there's a lot of business, there's a discotheque going on, yeah, we all see it, you've got the information, you see it in videos and everywhere, you just have to look. Discos, normally hamburgers, lines for attractive goods, people walk around, full of supermarkets, luxury cars go there. On the contrary, since the Ukrajinec have been given access to the European Union on the basis of conflict, so - that is what I said here last year - queues on the Ukrainian-Polish border with used cars. They'll take the cars, they'll drive back here, they'll shop again, they'll drive back. I have already mentioned that this year, and this was the mainstream, Ukrainian MPs bought a record amount of superluxury cars, Rolls-Royce, Mercedes, AMG. This was also impressed by the Western media, because the common feature of it was that they all paid cash because cars are written on relatives. This means, that is evident, in my view, corruption as stitched up, but clearly it is mostly safe when those Rolls-Royce MPs bought there and everything else, Ukrainian MPs, and they go there in peace. That's the situation, and I want to challenge you to end this support for economic migrants. I understand the need to adequately help real war refugees, but adequately so that it is not at the expense of our citizens, of course, because you do not even have a mandate to do so. But this, what you're doing, letting economic migrants drain huge sums from our budget, that's ridiculous. Go on vacation as in the country and then return soot benefits. It's incredible what the Fialův government is doing. And I stand by those opinions. And you're welcome to attack me again, because all you do is attack me. You're attacking political opponents. And I'm just a politically incorrect person, and I'm always going to be open and honest with myself, because that's just the way it is. But I'm asking you to move this debate forward, who will be responsible for these billions that you paid those economic migrants. I'm not saying they're all economic migrants. I didn't say that. But a lot of it does. And they should actually pay for it in the first place by the ministers of the Fialův government who decided that. He is Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan, he is Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL and he is Prime Minister Petr Fiala. And also those who are constantly escalating this problem, which is House President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Or they're catalyzing him, but like, they're just trying to push this problem around on purpose. In my opinion, these people should be driven to material responsibility for this decision. Why are citizens paying for this? Why should they pay benefits to economic migrants? It's just not normal. So the EU's migration pact on one side, on the other, such huge expenditures. It's just that I'm talking politically inappropriately about this, so I'm definitely gonna be the target of some people's attacks again, but I'm still not gonna change my mind, so you're wasting your time. I'm not gonna bend my spine here and pretend and squirm. It's just like that. And the task of the so-called care of a proper economy, with which you should manage and should rule with the so-called care of a proper economy, which is a terminus technique, so that you do not pay any public money to those who simply do not have the right to do so. [[12.30 hours]] Here you apologized last spring by apologizing for the fact that there was a conflict, you invited here, you just opened the floodgates and that almost half a million refugees came here. And then you said, well, there's so much that we can't control it and like this, but we have more than a year after. And the system goes on from your side, that's crazy. And that something has been limited since July? But how? Economic migrants aren't supposed to be entitled to anything, you know. How did it cut it down? Well, that's based on the pressure of our opposition, you've reduced the support of the housing allowance a little bit. But it's just unbelievable. I'm just gonna remind the story of TV Prima, where even the owner of the pension in Jihlava confirmed that he has young Ukrajinec, boys, young Ukrajinec who don't work there all day, they suck off the benefits, yeah, and now she said, well, if they don't pay, I'm gonna have to throw them out, they don't work here all day anyway, and they don't go to work. It's a system set up by the Fialův government. I just don't understand why they can't fight the Ukraine. They're Ukrainian citizens, they're also, like, a lot of our voters rightly, rightly asking, yeah, so it's their country, it's not our country, it's their country, it's their country, I don't have anything to do with Ukraine, it's like some kind of war, yeah, yeah, it just doesn't involve us in the Fialův government. We want peace, we want peace negotiations and not constant escalation simply. Of course, there must be two to the peace, but it must be mainly the will to sit at the table, yeah, and act simply, yeah, so, so, and I just really, like I'm just not going to take responsibility for corrupt Ukraine, just one of the most corrupt countries in Europe, and that is the official ranking of the European Court of Auditors. Yeah, I just remembered, the European Court of Auditors, the official body of the European Union, and Ukraine, according to that ranking, now I don't know exactly from my head, I guess, 130th place in the world, yeah, so I'm just not gonna support a corrupt, corrupt country where money is being stolen completely. I'm not surprised, so there were just trillions of crowns. A common Ukrajinec simply has a very low standard of living. I was there, in 2015 I went to see. I've been invited by the Rusín, which is the oppressed minority in the Transcarpatian Ukraine, yeah, because the Ukrainian regime doesn't want to recognise any other than Ukrainian nationality, it's just not at all, it's not compatible with the European Union at all, this. They can't even teach Russian at school, they're the Rusín, like Zakarpathian Ukraine, it was part of Czechoslovakia, wasn't it, until 38, I guess. So it's just a state, yeah, so not even Russian inscriptions of course, yeah. When he's driving around Slovakia, there's no problem with a bilingual inscription, yeah, if someone wants to make a German school or, I don't know, it's here in Prague, right, nobody has a problem with it. But it's just that Ukraine isn't at all compatible with the democracy of the Western, Western, Western cut. And let me tell you one more thing, what I've heard here from the exponents of the Fialův Government that Ukraine is supposed to be a member of the European Union and NATO, I say for myself that I do not want Ukraine to be a member of the European Union and NATO. You can eat me in quotes again, I just don't want to, I don't want to, it's gonna be a problem, it's gonna be a problem, and I'm gonna say it now. And I can see how some of Fialův's five-calice officials are probably gonna be writing some Twitter or something again that Okamura is pro-Russian or pro-putin, even though that's not true at all. I have nothing to do with Russia, and that is why I will say that I do not want them to be in the EU and NATO. Are you crazy who says that? Yeah, that's what the freaks say, yeah, you flip all over, that's exactly how you break up the company, yeah, that's disinformation. Well, now that I've said the word misinformation, I'm gonna drop by briefly. Well. If you ask people and you look at the networks, and like I said, they follow me on the networks, on my profiles almost 600,000 citizens of the Czech Republic, only I have Facebook 400,000. So when I read it like that, and I've seen it in a huge amount of contributions to the debate, then Prime Minister Fiala is considered the biggest disinformer in the Czech Republic. He's the one who promised he wouldn't raise taxes, and now you're raising them across the board. This is the one who said that the Czech Republic is at war, while we are not at war. The biggest disinformer in the Czech Republic is Petr Fiala, so he should be, he should be appointed, yeah, I don't know, I don't know what he's doing, well, it's futile to ask what the Minister of the Interior is doing Vít Rakušan, but of course you should talk about it, so don't spread disinformation. That's the problem, yeah. And I know it's gonna be hard for us in the SPD on the election campaign. Because I'm hearing those rumors, as the Fialův Government, Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, is preparing unfair sub-level pre-election methods against the opposition. Including the worst possible ones. This means abuse of government, and for this I will leave, abuse and the authorities of state to politically combat the opposition. So I have something to look forward to. Yeah, those are methods. These are the methods that await us, yeah, but we're not giving up, we're not giving up, but I prefer to talk about it in advance, and I prefer to talk about it in advance. Yeah, but I'm gonna drop this one for now, yeah. We are going to be surprised, we are going to be surprised just to let you know, because I think many of the government's MPs don't even know what's going on, what's going on and what's going on in this regard. I think most of you might be, because we have a different opinion, but most of you would probably go crazy, yeah, because they're really what I hear, so they're really methods from the 1950s, so it's just a political struggle. I don't have those methods, I don't do them, but from what I've heard, it's really unscrutable, so that's the way it's going to be, yeah, so obviously it's a democracy, it's a long way from democracy. Well, the media asked me today, and I'm glad about the SPD proposal, I guess it popped up somewhere, informed me, informed me colleagues that perhaps the government should discuss the SPD proposal this week, today. We have submitted an amendment to the Constitution to establish the right to payment in cash. And I think that it is also quite important because, in the opinion of the SPD, anchoring the right to cash payment is necessary in order to ensure the right to the protection of the privacy of our citizens, which in itself is a fundamental human right enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Well, another reason for our submission is the concern of many of our citizens that cash-free payments will soon become mandatory or that paper money can be completely abolished. At the same time, we will maintain the right of the State to take the necessary measures to combat terrorist financing, tax evasion or to reduce the risk of corruption. We believe that developments in the EU towards further restrictions or even a full ban on cash payments would represent a significant intervention in personal freedoms and would significantly increase the risk of abuse of large amounts of information related to the increase in cash-free payments, whether directly from the relevant banking institutions collecting information on cash-free payments, as well as via state institutions or potentially other third parties. So I just wanted to remind you here that we filed the draft Constitutional Law to establish the right to payment in cash. By the way Slovák already have it in the Constitution, Slovák already have it in the Constitution and Rakušan are thinking about it. This has already been mentioned at the government level since 2019. Well, I haven't been able to figure out whether they've accepted it or not yet, but it's a really serious matter, and I'm glad they're noticing it in the other countries. I already have, and I've been pushing for it in the last term. And I think it's really important that citizens have the choice, that citizens have the choice, and that's part of the freedom, so that the citizen can choose the one who just wants to have the free one, doesn't want to be controlled, wants to have the right to privacy, etc. So I just wanted to point out that it's kind of like today's theme. [[12.40 hours]] So from my point of view, I've summarized the actual things that I think are really important. That means, if I say it for a short time, dear, Fialův's precious, that's what I'm talking about, that's why I'm talking about it here. Furthermore, the EU's migration pact needs to be rejected, which the Purple Government does not want to do, you want to accept migrants here or pay money, but from all of us's money, that is obviously a problem. Well, of course, I was also talking about the freedom, the censorship that the Fialův government is promoting here, the disinformation that Prime Minister Petr Fiala is spreading. Well, these are all important topics so we don't just talk about the economy. And why am I summing this up? On the other hand, let's see what the Fialův Government is proposing here - you are proposing a general tax increase to all citizens of the Czech Republic, as well as to companies, and at the same time you are proposing to rob current and future pensioners about pensions. And, of course, we fundamentally disagree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-071-05-000-000.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before opening the item, Minister Marian Jurečka is entitled to sign up with priority, so he withdraws his application with priority rights. Since there are no priori applications, I am opening
