ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u1	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 71st session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you all to sign up again with your identification cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. On the whole of the Petr, on the Fifka of the day, on the whole of the Jiří, on the Hájek of the dayKlára on the whole of the Jan, on the Jan of Bauer day of the case, on the whole of the Tureček of the case, on the Nacher of the Kubík of the case, on the Pavel of the Svoboda of the case, on the whole of the case, on the Václav of the Svoboda of the case, on the Voborská of the case, on the whole of the case, on the Šebelová of the Michaela of the case, Patrik the whole of the Kobza, on the Berkovcová of the case, Josef the Bernard of the case, on the whole of the case, on the Válková of the case, on the Teleky of the case, on the whole of the case, on the whole of the case, on the whole of the case, on the whole of the case, on the Jiří of the Tomáš of the Müller, on the whole of the case, on the day of the case, on the Jaroslav of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, on the Kašník of the case of the case of the case Balaštíková the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, on the case, on the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the Dostálová of the case Jana the Krutáková of the králíček of the case of the case, on the Robert of the case of the case of the Stržínek of the case of the case of the case of the Robert of the whole of the case of the whole of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the whole of the case, Romana the Okleštěk of the Ladislav of the case of the case of the Roman Kubíček the case of the case of the Stanislav of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the Robert of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the Ochodnická of the Ožanová of the case of the case of the case of the case of the Roman of the case of the case of the case of the case of the whole Hrnčíř the Kuchař of the Jáč of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of Jan Volný for family reasons, Vladimír Zlínský for family reasons, Marek Ženíšek for the whole day for personal reasons. Ivan Bartoš from the entire meeting day due to foreign travel, MikuláMikuláš Bek from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Martin Dvořák until 9.30 hours and from 10.30 hours for working reasons, Petr Hladík from the whole meeting day for working reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from the whole meeting day for personal reasons, Vít Rakušan from 11.30 to 15.30 hours for working reasons, Michal Šalomoun from 12 hours for working reasons and Vlastimil Válek from the whole meeting day for personal reasons. In the meantime, Mr. Faltýnek's apology came up. Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes for the whole day for family reasons. And now we should continue with the interrupted point, but I have several applications with priority rights specified before the start of point 3, so I will now read the order to let you know where you are logged in. First, President Jan Jakob, and then - I stress, it is with priority right before the start of the item - President Andrej Babiš, Minister Marian Jurečka and then President Alena Schillerová. First, then, Prime Minister Jan Jakob and I will ask first - the wounds are more difficult to calm down. Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, please, let us maintain a calm environment for the President here. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, we are due to attend to today's several meeting day and we are hoping to devote 458, which is the Government's proposal for a law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. Allow me to recapitulate a little about how this press has been discussed here. First of all, I'd like to focus on time connotations. At the first reading, we recorded an obstruction of 7 hours 25 minutes before the program. The meeting itself at first reading lasted 6 hours. In the second reading, obstruction before the program was 3 hours and 45 minutes, the meeting itself took 8 hours and 10 minutes. In the third reading we will continue today, so far the obstruction has lasted 5 hours and the negotiations themselves 4 hours and 50 minutes. When I add it together, we are quite devoted to this press the following times: Before opening the point it was 16 hours and 10 minutes, negotiations, I dare say even given the length, another part of obstruction within the present point, another 19 hours. All in all, 35 hours and 10 minutes. Moreover, last Friday, 21 July, in accordance with Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure, we made a proposal to discuss this press after 14 o'clock until the end of the day. However, this proposal was vetoed by the opposition and thereby further expansion of the debate beyond the time I have said here has made it impossible. For this reason, because the opposition did not allow any further time for discussion and because, in the course of the discussion, we were forced to vote on the limitation of speaking time to twice 10 minutes, as far as possible from the Members who applied for the right to vote. I've counted the number of individual performances. During the whole discussion of this point there were 258 speeches. A total of 112 different Members have spoken at each reading. It is not surprising that more than 70 percent of them were members of the opposition. As far as time is concerned, due to long priority rights, opposition Members in particular spoke. [[9.10 hours]] At the same time, I would like to quote paragraph 2, Section 95 of our Rules of Procedure, which says about the third reading in which we are located: "In the third reading, a debate is held, in which it is possible to propose only a correction of the date of effectiveness of the bill, legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the priority amendments, or to make a proposal for repeating the second reading." As I said at the time, I am now looking at the clock, so we have actually spent ten hours reading third, and it is clear that at this time everything that describes the Rules of Procedure could have been done. Moreover, the arguments are now being repeated in the discussion and nothing new is being said that would not have been mentioned in the previous hours of the long hearing. Therefore, so that there is no doubt as to the procedure which I will subsequently propose, I would like to quote the Constitutional Court's finding under the registration mark 55/10. I quote: "It is always necessary to seek and assess the balance between the legislative interests of the ruling majority and the parliamentary opposition or minorities when deciding on the level and the distribution of the guarantee of any of the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as their exercise. On the one hand, not only can the recognition of some of the above-mentioned rights in opposition, or the factual impossibility of their proper and undisturbed exercise as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, lead not only to the weakening of democratic principles, sorry, it can lead not only to a weakening of the legitimacy of the exercise of power, but also to a constant restriction, or even violation of fundamental democratic principles, to a threat to the democraticity of the political system itself. On the other hand, the excessive degree and breadth of the guarantee of individual rights in the parliamentary opposition may lead to their frequent overuse or abuse by the opposition, which may result in weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. It is therefore necessary for individual rights and authorisations guaranteed by the parliamentary opposition to also correspond to certain obligations and responsibilities for their exercise." So much of the Constitutional Court's finding, which I assume here, is widely known to everyone, because we've heard it here several times. And as I was saying, the length of the output and the number of performances is also quite indisputable, that no right of opposition is being taken away, that she had sufficient room to express her proposal. For these reasons, which I have put forward, I will allow myself, in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 248 of the 9th meeting on 26 February 1997, to propose this resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies states that the vote on the drafts and drafts submitted as a whole in the case of the Parliamentary press number 458 will take place on Wednesday 26 July 2023 at 12.30 p.m. I also note that this means that until this time, all Members who, as I checked in, were still able to speak up when they did not exercise any other priority rights, respect for the time limit for speaking out, and due discipline in the use of factual remarks, could speak out until now. [[Laughs from the benches of members YES and SPD.]] Madam President, I would like you to vote immediately on the procedural proposal tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u3	Thank you. The proposal is quite clear. I have begun to call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and I perceive counterproposals, and I will beg for briefness. Madam President Alena Schillerová with a counterproposal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u4	Well, thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. A new age. The five-calice determines the opposition how long to talk, what to talk about -- what is obstruction and what is not. [[President: Please counter-proposal.]] Please let me defend my counter-proposal - as long as you have allowed President Jakoba - What is obstruction and what is not - let me finish, Madam Vice-President. [[The President: The procedure should be immediate.]] [[The President: Please, it is different.]] Let me finish. [[President: I really beg you to counter-proposal.]] I'm defending him. So you're counting what was obstruction, which isn't obstruction. You're counting on -- how much we should have talked, how much we shouldn't have talked -- what we were... [[President: Please counter-proposal.]] [[Disadvised banging on the benches of the Members from the left.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u5	Madam President, I'm sorry, we're really lectured, clear, brief, from the counterproposal. [[Laughter and shouting from the left.]] Very please, this is the case, from the Rules of Procedure, the procedural proposal is to be put to the vote immediately. Please make -. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u6	I have the right to defend my proposal. My proposal is to suspend today's negotiations by the end of August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u7	It's not a counterproposal. That is not a counterproposal, Madam President. The President of Radim Fiala is also registered. I beg your counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u8	Thank you. I just want to say, Madam President, that you will let your Members speak in order to come to the vote at all, so here they defend their -- defending their proposals for ten minutes, and no one mind, and speaking of us -- it bothers you. [[President: Please counter-proposal.]] [[President: Please counter-proposal.]] [[Massive applause from the left.]] Those are some new practices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u9	The President has spoken with priority rights. To conclude, he made a procedural proposal, which I am to put to the vote immediately. This is the order of procedure. No debate. There are others with priority rights before starting the point. Really please counterproposal now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u10	Okay. So I'm giving you a counterproposal to vote on this point at the end of August, and I'll tell you the date. [[President: Exact date.]] Yes, I'll give you a date, wait. [[He's checking his cell phone.]] And the date is - Friday's the 18th, no, until August 25th, 12:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u11	So you're proposing Friday 25. 8. at 12.30 pm, Mr President, to vote on the Houses of the Press 458. It is voteable, please, also President Tomio Okamura with his counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, as part of my counter-proposal, I would draw attention to the important thing, because I have announced in my speech that our Mrs Šafránková will propose a proposal to repeat the second reading in accordance with Section 95, paragraph 2. But she didn't get to the proposal. He's in line the whole time. So that's what I think is really a problem, because if it's -- yes, but I'm pointing out that, and it's good to hear it here, because we're gonna do it -- we're gonna hand it over to the Constitutional Court -- we have the right to file a motion for a return to the second... [[- I beg your counterproposal.]] [[President: Please -]] [[- Counterclaim, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u13	Mr President, please make a counterclaim, and then there will be other priority rights with the possibility to speak. Please counter-proposal.)
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u14	But I'm trying to draw your attention to it, I've announced it in my speech a few days ago, she didn't get -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u15	Please, procedural - once again I say, a procedural vote immediately. Please, Mr. Chairman, make a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u16	It is necessary to allow the parliamentary club -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u17	I'll do it again, if you don't have a counterclaim, please leave the pitch. Please make a counterproposal too much. The vote will be taken.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u18	[[Unintelligible]] Your answer to the House's leadership when I announced that I would file it, but the SPD MP didn't get to file it. [[President: I beg you to make a counterproposal, Mr President. If you have a counterproposal, Mr President, it is now, otherwise -]] Wait, I didn't even get to him because you keep shutting me down and Mr. Jakob was talking for five minutes. [[President: 'Cause you're supposed to make a counterproposal.]] Well, I'm here to tell you what the problem is - and on that basis, I'd like to get the answer and say the counterproposal. [[- Counterclaim, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u19	Mr President, make a counter-proposal when the vote is due. So, and now - I see, of course, you have the right to raise an objection to the President's procedure, but first we will vote against the counter-proposal. The procedural vote shall be put to the vote immediately, of course it shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure. [[9.20 hours]] So, of course, you have the right to raise an objection, and I am here to indicate that it should be noted, but now we will vote as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, the procedural proposal, when we will first vote against the proposal, and given that the voteable counterproposal has been made by one person, namely President Radim Fiala, who asks that the fixed date of vote be set for Friday 25 August at 12.30 pm, so this counterproposal, I am now putting it to a vote. Please, who is in favour of this counterproposal by President Radim Fiala, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? And in vote number 35, 147 voters logged in. For 62, against 82. This proposal was rejected. And now we come to the motion by President Jan Jakob, which sets a fixed date for the vote today 26. 7. 2023 from 12:30 p.m. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour, let him press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 36, 149 votes were cast. For 86, against 63. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been adopted. And now the objection to the President's procedure, please, of course you have every right to do so, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u20	Madam President, Madam Government, you should have let the opposition vote first, because I wanted to question it, and you knew it by your procedure, Madam President, in this vote. So you should've had the first vote of objection, and then you should've voted... [[Madam Vice-President disagrees.]] Then read the Rules of Procedure Act. And the second thing is that he has the right to speak at any time under the Rules of Procedure. [[Madam Vice-President disagrees.]] So read the Rules of Procedure and I hereby object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u21	Thank you. That, of course, is your right. It was therefore raised by President Radim Fiala's objection to my action, and the House will decide whether it will be accepted. I have already called my colleagues, my colleagues, and I am opening the vote on this objection. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the 37 vote, 149 votes were cast. For 63, against 86. I'm of the opinion that the objection has been rejected. We have therefore adopted the motion by President Jan Jakob, we have dealt with the counterproposals and we are now returning to the registered ones, who have a clear order here, which I have also recapitulated for the outset, namely the priority right before the start of item number three at the 71st meeting of President Andrej Babiš. Mr Marian Jurečka, Vice Prime Minister, and then President Alena Schillerová, then President Tomio Okamura. This is the order of priority rights and then we should open the point itself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u22	So, fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the word...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u23	I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you for a little while, and I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues who want to tell them to go to the lobby. There's a quieter situation here. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u24	So one more time. Dear fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the word totalitarian. Not the word of God. Totality! [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement and at the same time applause for Members from the left side of the hall.]] But maybe this totalitarianism will be more than the word of God! Maybe we'll see about that. I'm very fond of the MP. It was as if he had forgotten that the one who had begotten him - that is, politically. [[Laughing from the left side of the hall.]] Symbol of corruption and founder of ODS B. What he read here when there were books and laws. [[unintelligible]] Well, the MP here was talking about obstructions, and who's the one who built this place? I didn't build this place. The MP seems to have forgotten that you've been building an EET here for years, 297 days. And the Dukovany you've been bragging about for 300 days and the construction bill for the mayors to do their business, 300 days, too. That was obstruction! And we, as opposition, because we have a new totalitarianism, we actually... Where are we supposed to talk? Tell me, where are we supposed to talk? Pro-government Czech Television, for example last night there was Minister Výborný. Do you think they invited one of ours? Minister Výborný fan of Ukrainian grain, and Ukrainian chicken with salmonella, is also a fan of that. The Czech Republic is the only country that is rooting for it. Others fight for their citizens. And the Prime Minister, that's what I want to talk about, he's got his shows. He's got Czech TV on Sunday, he goes alone. The stínový Prime Minister of the ANO Havlíček movement will not be invited by Mr. Activist Editor. The Prime Minister has his show on CNN, the Prime Minister has his show on Diary. So this media that won the five-calice election, and that's part of the new totalitarianism, the post-November cartel... And thanks to them, most of the things here belong to foreigners and have permanently damaged this country. Basically. So where can we talk? Well, of course, the Czech Television, when we were in the government, was broadcasting the House by morning. When I was practicing at 5:00 a.m., I saw the House, the opposition, for an hour. Remember Mr. Stanjura, he wouldn't let us go to the toilet! We had to sit here like kindergarten. Not here. You must be here. What was the current coalition doing here? Five clubs. Every two hours, breaks. That was obstruction, that was obstruction. We really didn't learn that from you! We didn't. I'm asking, where can we talk? When I go on TV, and I don't go much anymore, the editor quotes out of context that I said something... out of context. Our fellow citizens, they're the most enjoying the videos. Yes, there was a video of me talking bad and a butterfly (?), I don't know what everything... sandals, now I've learned that sandals are called, not sandals. Well, about the Prime Minister, the video where he made promises and where he promised a lot of things, that's really tragic. It's not even funny tragedy when people make fun of it. So what point are we discussing here? I think it's the point of robbing our seniors! You're listening well. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] Stealing from our seniors! [[9.30 hours]] Our seniors who built our country. They built our country. I once lectured here that it would be interesting if some college students did a thesis on what Karel IV built, what Masaryk, Baťa built, totalitarianism and this new totalitarianism. To see who built what, what, what we have left here. Well, it's not much. So this point is robbing our seniors. Yes. The elderly have always been a priority for us. This government hates and hates retired people. She hasn't even gotten in yet, she took their discount. And they've already been taken from them once. According to the law, they were entitled to inflation valorization, that's at the Constitutional Court, which is part of a new totalitarianism... I'm curious to see how our constitutional complaint will turn out. And what does this government do? Time's running really fast, they'll be there in two years. It increases taxes and reduces pensions. That's all. And since it's the worst government in our country's history, the government of national tragedy, their strategy is to lie. Lie. They lie, they lie before the election, after the election, they lie all the time. And last week, the lies that went away are an incredible amount. And I'm gonna talk about it. What are they lying about now? So Mr. Rakušan and Mr. Lipavský are now lying about migration. There's a pro-brussels, pro-government editor who writes the lies in Diary that they supposedly pushed for what we wanted. Well, they didn't. So they're lying about inflation. Then they lie about energy. About the Dukovans. Russian oil. That's what Mr. Síkela is lying about. Well, the world champion of lying is the Prime Minister. That's really... I think he's the best. And we've had different premieres here in history. We had leaders, we had decent, incompetent, we had different. But the most lying of all politicians in this country's history is Prime Minister Fiala. He looks like he flew in from Mars now, that he's actually new here. He doesn't even live in the Czech Republic. And the media won't remind him he's been in government for over a year. What was he doing there? The government... Yes, the government that chose for the finale of Temelín Rosatoma! Russian Rosatom. Yes. The ODS that supported Putin went to see Putin, and now they're pretending they weren't here. So first, the Prime Minister had his show on CNN. And what did the Prime Minister tell us? Migration has been a major issue, the numbers of migrants are increasing, and years have failed to combat human trafficking. It's a migration pact. He was talking about migration. Yes. And we are on Czech TV, which, of course, is still rooting for this government, so they failed because they called Commissioner Johansson, who is in charge and who told us - and Radek Vondráček was there - that the Czech Presidency was actually preparing the migration betrayal. That's migration treason. There's a quota. Mandatory solidarity is absolute nonsense. There's 30,000 at least! At least. And now Minister Rakušan and Minister Lipavský are trying to tell you, fellow citizens, that they really only wanted what we wanted. But that's one dirty 100 times repeated lie. And it's easy to prove, Prime Minister. because there is a press conference before every European Council at the airport in Kbely. And that's where I was talking, and that's where you're talking. But you're just able to lie so much that it's completely unbelievable. Totally unbelievable. About the migration. They're lying about the migration that we were supposed to be in her position. It's not true. It's a dirty lie. It's traceable. In September 2020, I made it clear that we were against it before we left. And we did not allow the European Commission, the officials, the bureaucrats, the unelected, to enforce the legislation. We cut it. Yes, V4, June 29, 2018 at 4:00 a.m. Then they sued us. And what did we say, V4? We sent 32 million euros there. And once again, Prime Minister, ask where our taxpayers' money is. They were supposed to buy those ships for the Libyan Coast Guard, which was supposed to fight illegal... No, they smuggle everything against smugglers who make 6 billion euros a year. People, too. Yes. So it's not true that we had that position. We didn't. We fundamentally rejected it, we reject it. And the solution is clear. Boats aren't allowed to sail. And all those who still drown in the Mediterranean, that is your responsibility, Prime Minister and Minister Rakušan, that is your responsibility. And the green fanatics. The Promigran fanatics who want to destroy Europe, who want to change our culture, change our way of life, our customs. And that it doesn't concern us? Well, I think it concerns us. Because, of course, what's going on with us? So we can talk about increasing crime. And that he doesn't come to our house? Of course he comes to our house. Here I can read you what happened now - and this is a fresh article: Police stopped four cars packed with migrants on the Prague Circuit. Four cars full of migrants were stopped by police on Tuesday morning on the Prague Circuit, dear fellow citizens. The crew is suspected of trafficking people illegally. Yes, it's good that our police are taking action. Unfortunately, a lot of cops are leaving because they don't trust this government. They don't. He's always talking about salary cuts and so on. So there were 16 people in the cars. Four smugglers were apprehended. But the time will come when Germany will be full and it is already being fulfilled, Sweden, Denmark and so on. And then we can ask where the migrants stay. Of course it concerns us. Mr. Rakušan claims how advantageous this is for us, how successful it is. I'd like to know, what's the success? About what? That you invited them to Europe, Minister or Prime Minister? You invited them to Europe. You said and agreed to a mandatory solidarity. Mandatory solidarity. And what is compulsory solidarity? Well, that's stupid, of course. That's nonsense. And the Commissioner who performed on Czech television commended you and said: The Czech Republic has prepared this great agreement within the Presidency. Great deal. No, that's not a great deal. That's a threat to security. The threat to the security of Evropan, the threat to the security of our citizens. And we see what's happening in France, Sweden, where the police are afraid to go to the suburbs to banlieue Paris and so on. Mr. Rakušan says he got some 1.3 billion. And can you tell us what it is? Maybe from the money I won with my colleagues from the Office of the Government and the Ministry of Finance? 1.3 billion? The change? The charity? What he says - and I will get there because it was a speech at the press conference of the Polish Prime Minister, who criticized Europe harshly, to the European Commission that the penalty for not accepting an illegal migrant is 20,000 euros. And Poland received 200 euros in Ukrainian. [[9.40 hours]] But we didn't get anything. Maybe Mr. Rakušan stole some change from some fund or I don't know what. And yet, the Prime Minister said that if all this is calculated, and I think it's already over 40 billion or 45 billion, he'll just send it to Brussels. At the same time, he missed a historic chance to get this money under the Presidency. Sure, solidarity, solidarity, it's about fighting for Czech interests. And today, across Europe, who's fighting for the interests of their fellow citizens? Well, Poland and Hungary. The Czech Prime Minister is not fighting for the interests of our citizens. And he could have blocked it. He didn't even have to block, he should have clearly said, we here - Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary - have accepted so many refugees and we, the Czech Republic, want 45 billion, 40 billion. So we didn't get anything. So what's the success? Where's the exception? And you don't think they're coming to us? We're in Schengen, if you don't know. And what someone's trying to say is that the government is actually continuing to do what we did. No, no. We did everything we could to do, and we did it. We canceled the quotas, we didn't allow the legislation. Viktor Orbán built a fence in 2015. Today everyone builds fences: Greece, Poland, Denmark, everyone builds fences and gets money for it. The Greeks received 3.4 billion euros. Why, when Morawiecki blocked the board? And, of course, Bakalův's writers wrote that Babiš is a complete idiot, because he doesn't really know how it works. Well, Babiš knows exactly how it works because Babiš did something there. And I'll get to it. So why did Meloni go to Warsaw? Well, since Italy got 1.1 billion euros on those refugees, and Morawiecki, he's also working it out. Yes, that solidarity, when the European Council meets and the doors close, is not. There's a struggle for the interests of the individual states, and we did this. So it is a disaster for Europe. Of course, it's about the culture that there are problems. A swimming pool in Berlin. Here... Women lick ice cream and The Syrians don't like it, it says in Germany. So imagine. So we're about to get dictated by what we're supposed to do because we have new totalitarianism in our home. And their representative was the first to speak today, and the second totalitarianism is in Brussels and the European Parliament. I'll get back to the Prime Minister's interview. The Prime Minister repeated his lie and says that AB, it's me, made an incredible turn of opinion, as Green Deal agreed and defended him here, and now his biggest opponent. A dirty 100-time lie to the Prime Minister. So, Prime Minister, one more time. Green Deal was an agreement in the original version, and the original proposal of the European Commission and those European fanatics from the European Parliament was to reduce emissions by 55 per cent each Member State. We did not agree with Poland in principle, because we do not have such a structure of the economy, nor do we have any natural conditions to achieve an average of 55 percent. Denmark is at sea. Mette, this is the Prime Minister, she's shooting propellers and she's got 70 percent of renewables. We fought for it. I've been fighting to get our crusts recognized. The woods were destroyed by Jurečka. He didn't put any money into it. And instead of absorbing, they emit CO2. Yes, that's what we fought for. It's all traceable. I repeat it again, but I know you'll repeat it again, you lie. So Green Deal: First of all, he didn't sign, second of all, the Prime Minister will agree that we need to reduce emissions because of our nature, because of our forests, because of water, and so on. But we have always said that Europe must force other states to cut emissions, too. And if the United States joined later, we read today, today, last week, an article about China building dozens of brown coal-based power plants. So China doesn't care, imports from China to Europe are increasing. The talk of politicians, how we actually tax or impose a customs duty on this high-emission goods - nothing went wrong. The Prime Minister here lied again about Green Deal, about migration. And here's the absolute insolence that I was supposed to say no to Brussels, and that I didn't enforce anything. Now, Prime Minister, that's like an outrageous lie, a dirty lie, that's like really incredible as... Because the Prime Minister is a convinced liar, he's lying convincingly, I already talked about it, okay? So let's talk about it, Prime Minister. I stopped migration together with the V4. You broke the V4 here. We've pushed through taxonomy, core, our woods, part of the fact that they're gonna charge us that we don't have the 55 percent obligation. And so we're the Green Deal, when I get back to it, we get into the fact that it's not an obligation for the Czech Republic. We fought with Morawiecki for it overnight. We've achieved that we've received the second-largest money from the modernization fund. Yes, from that fund where you're unable to draw money, where the Minister of the Environment, and it's a mystery who actually put it in the draft budget when the income of the 50 billion modernization fund was supposed to be? And now Minister Stanjura has finally said that nothing will happen. So we won the 600 billion, we were second in Europe after Morawiecki, that's our result. We have won 980 billion European funds, which you now want to give everyone in this building warming project, okay? Core. And we won the extra 42 billion, okay? We fought for emission allowances to be cancelled and for them to be ceilinged. I have repeatedly written a letter to all prime ministers, the President of the European Commission. For that, there are articles in the media. Well, our media, which are pro-government, of course, aren't going to write about it, and they're not going to write about it because they're part of this new totalitarianism. Yes, January 1, 2023 (?) Finally, after two years of fighting, the European Commission recognised that the core is a sustainable resource and gas as well. So if the Prime Minister is lying that we haven't achieved anything, it's incredible because he's probably talking about himself. How was the Presidency preparing for this? He hasn't even met Macron properly. Yes, the whole summit went on here, so it was actually Macronův's summit. Well, what was the result? He has not once convened an extraordinary council to promote the interests of Europe, the interests of the Czech Republic. Euro 7. Now they are fighting terribly against this and within the Presidency? Nothing. No combustion engines. Prime Minister, you promised you wouldn't let that happen, okay? And you let me. Did the Hubáčková have that mandate, why did she vote in favour? Why did you lie? Yes. Then, of course, people will pay for home, real estate, and cars. [[9.50 hours]] And the worst thing that actually happened is that you were actually praised by the worst European politician. That fanatic, that lunatic Timmermans, a combination of green communists, complimented you and said... If I find it here somewhere, he said it was actually all great. When Timmermans praises someone, I would normally shoot myself if Timmermans complimented me. And what Timmermans said: I want to give up the Czech Presidency for a great job, yes. The Prime Minister went to Timmermans to get his notebooks. In my 35 years of experience, says Timmermans, I have not seen a Presidency that is so focused, so combative, so results-oriented as the Czech Presidency. [[With laughter.]] You've achieved historical results, and you shouldn't forget that, yes. That's completely unbelievable. Totally unbelievable. Timmermans, who is the father of this Green Deal, and for us, there wasn't a word of it when Green Deal discussed in a framework, about the fact that cars will be banned, that people will pay for emission allowances, that we will destroy the industry, that we want to destroy the cows, that we will actually destroy Europe. This is Timmermans. Praise God, he has already left the European Commission, and I hope that these people who want to destroy Europe will no longer succeed in Europe, because that would be a complete, complete disaster for us. I'll go back to that, and those are the lies the Prime Minister keeps repeating, yes. So again, I'm asking the Prime Minister not to lie about Green Deal. You betrayed everything you promised your fellow citizens before the election, you betrayed yourself. You betrayed the ODS. You betrayed the views of your MEPs, and you advocated everything this man wanted from you. And so is the migration. We've never allowed legislation. Yes. But Europe, the European Commission, the Prime Minister went there to get his notebooks, so he agreed to everything. I don't understand how he says he's got something going on. He didn't enforce anything. And it's all traceable. Then, of course, there is still a lie about energy security and about how it was with Dukovany. And here's a beautiful headline where the editor here actually says: Russian oil can go to the Czech Republic as needed. Well, okay. The Prime Minister told us and promised we'd cut ourselves off from Russian oil, okay? He just didn't think it through, and he realized that without Russian oil, it would just be a big problem for us. Plus, of course, he doesn't have any influence on it, but he always says how it suits him. We can go back to inflation where he said inflation, it's Babiš, then Putin, then the CNB, and now he's got the inflation. It was oil anyway. So he said, oil, we don't want to. Then he found out it was a mess, so he was happy - and here's the article and he wanted an exception, but of course he wasn't able to enforce it because he didn't have the guts. So here's the headline - Orbán has been straining Europe for 26 days, the Russian oil embargo has approved the EU for him to measure. [[He's showing the material.]] But that's a bad headline, even to the Prime Minister. Because the Prime Minister - and now I don't know if he really decides to import oil or not. And of course he doesn't make decisions, but he always fits the role that he decides. Last year, the Prime Minister imported 820,000 tons more Russian oil, plus. And now he's trying to tell us that he's gonna take our taxpayers' money - 1.6 billion from Mera, which has a small share of the TAL pipeline, and that that money is just gonna be self-sufficiency. Well, of course it's nonsense, it's nonsense, because even those co-shareholders in the pipeline didn't want it. So that's another lie and another manipulation where he said he wanted to cut himself off, then he found out he couldn't, so he wanted an exception. He didn't make an exception, Orbán arranged it, and the Prime Minister is boldly saying that Orbán was somehow driving me and all this nonsense. Unlike you, Prime Minister, I was the sovereign Czech Prime Minister. And I fought for Czech interests, and that's why the committee Orbán me, which is why she invented a conflict of interest, and that's why they invented this crap in Orbán, because Orbán didn't want Hungarian kids to learn in elementary school about having sex or having sex like that. And by the way, Poland was there before Putin's aggression. Poland was blacklisted, then it changed. So another thing that's untrue, right? So the sum of the sum of the historic Presidency is once every 13 years. The result is zero. And if there wasn't a Zajíček who was the only one capable of the whole party, then there weren't even any things that had been determined before and, of course, Mr Rakušan boasts that he had completed Schengen Croatia. Well, I didn't. They waited eight years. So these are the things that are in this space, and they keep repeating themselves. Then the Prime Minister was in Poland. We saw the press conference. Yes, Morawiecki, he's a leader. What Morawiecki said. He has harshly criticized Europe for illegal migration. He harshly criticized the European Commission for wanting more and more competences and for blackmailing some states through money. Yes, that's their style. First, they force the Member States to pay for what suits them, especially for the green ideology, yes, we have to pay the highway from our own, but they gave us something. Mr Morawiecki has harshly criticized, Mr Morawiecki has said that he does not strongly agree with the European Council's broken unanimity. He also said that defense spending should be out of budget. That's an interesting suggestion, out of debt, I think. That was a clear leader. And then Prime Minister Fiala came to the press conference. What was he talking about? He was mainly talking about Ukraine, because the Prime Minister is still talking about Ukraine. This government has unlimited money for Ukraine and has unlimited money for defense and has no money for pensioners and for people, it doesn't. I'm bohužel so. So it was a big part of his press conference. The Prime Minister spoke of transport. It is also terribly smiling when the Prime Minister sat in the government of Nečas, for several months as Minister of Education, and during the period of the časový Government, how much stood up? 800 meters of freeway. Not to mention the fact that over 500 million were worth more than a kilometer of the motorway during the ODS period. We pulled it down to 250, and why was it worth $500 million? Well, that's what our construction companies know, as was the corruption back then. Unbelievable corruption, unbelievable. Even the bypass in České Budějovice, where they now claim to have no money for it, could also go on the surface instead of the tunnel. And the Prime Minister talked about it, and now Minister Kupka has come and discovered it and promises that the spinal highway network will be in ten years. [[10.00 hours]] It would also be good if he looked at the way it was supposed to be. For example, here's the background from the ŘSD where the highways are going to stand, okay? [[He's showing materials to the hall.]] We talked about having to finish some - Karlovy Vary, 2026, České Budějovice on the border with Austria, 2026 and so on. So it looks like we're not doing anything. When we started in 2014, there wasn't even a law. farmářka Havránková - our predecessors have been dealing with Havránková for 19 years, yes? That's the highway next to Hradec. We came here and made a law that set up up up to eight times a meter. What happened after the revolution? Well, our politicians bought a lot of land. Why is the highway from Brno to Vienna around Mikulov? I don't know why it doesn't go through Břeclav. We can have fun - D1, Benešov or Tábor, why they didn't finish and so on. Clear evidence of who paid attention to the transport infrastructure is this table on the financing of transport infrastructure from the SFDI budget. [[He's pointing to the O.R.]] Here you can see clearly how under this government, which was already in government in 2009, as it falls from 2009 to 2014. Then when we kicked the legislation, it started to rise. So this government is actually just bragging about our work, and of course it's making excuses for things that don't exist. Here's the funny headline. Anti-Babiš and Pro-government Diary N - the direction of both countries is the same, the Czech-Polish disputes at the meeting of the government in Katowice have retreated to the background. Well, sure, the same? Nothing's the same. The Poles are beating us up, Prime Minister. They have food VAT zero. Polack cares, Morawiecki cares, fights. He's the toughest Prime Minister today. Believe me, I sat there with him for four years and he was tough and really tough. He was the Minister of Finance there for a long time and promoted against all the interests of Poland. I, of course, advocated the interests of the Czech Republic. But these are things the Prime Minister doesn't know. So the direction of both countries. Come on, we've been directed a long time ago. We are members of NATO and the European Union, so I don't know what. But the economy, how it works. Yes, Poland goes because there are opposition and coalitions discussing these strategic issues, they do it together, unlike you. So, the press conference. The leader of Morawiecki and the Prime Minister, who spoke again about the Stork pipeline, which of course the Prime Minister's friends didn't want, and the Polák didn't want it either. But the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that we should have neglected the pipeline. That's another lie, of course it's not true, it can be documented. We even took care of the gas pipeline money in Brussels. So I ask again, Prime Minister, who will build it from the Czech side? I already gave you a hint, but I won't say it again. Why would I advise you if you're clueless and you don't know? So tell me, when will the pipeline start to be built, who will be the investor on the Czech side and where is Poland's consent? Poland has opened a pipeline that leads from Norway to the Slovak-Ukrainian border and is there. Then the Prime Minister talked about the core. Yes, Polák can learn the core from us. But you have it ready, you Dukovany and Temelín, where you had Rosatom to remind you again. So it was the press conference, and you're not surprised. Then Mr. Morawiecki, who, of course, is a skilled politician, a leader, said that Turów was fine. Yes, for Poland, but... July 24th. What's today? July 26th, today's Wednesday. So on Monday - the wall for water retention at Turów works, confirmed the wells. But for Poland, water is still disappearing from the Czech Republic. I didn't want to sign it because it was disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, disadvantageous, yeah. So the Polák laughed at you, Prime Minister, they painted you on bread, and you, because you simply don't have the courage, did a bad deal for the Czech Republic, for Liberec, because our people are still leaving the water. It says here it works on the Polish side, but it doesn't work in our country, no. That's your work. We didn't agree to it. You didn't get anything for it. I understand that there is before the elections in Poland and that there is a demonstration - I think Katczinsky was there in the mine, there was also Prime Minister Morawiecki - and they said that he would benefit and we don't care what Brusel says. I don't care, either, but this government cares, she goes to get her notes, okay? So Morawiecki said we'll be mining at least until 2044. This government said, 2033 ends no matter whether Dukovany is in operation or not, and it forbids people to actually buy coal boilers, yeah. So they do everything against people. The Czech Republic is on the side of the federalists after this government, okay? After all, the useless EU minister says we're gonna put everything in Brussels, they're gonna run us, those green freaks, those freaks, the Timmermans and the cops. So the Prime Minister does not defend the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, he does not defend. Then there was the Colours of Ostrava. That's where I used to go, we even sponsored it. Today - I'm not talking about the bands that performed there, I'm talking about the fact that it's just a political festival tonight. I remember, I think in 2016, when the Meltingpot was already there, yeah. As Minister of Finance, I was in the audience, and I was just watching it, and, of course, there they were talking about Babiš, EET. When I applied, everyone was shocked to see me there. But at the time it was also that, of course, we were in the government and we had a great mayor from Ostrava who was putting... Come on, it was about the money, as usual. Well, now it's been a big upheaval that somebody's been checking out what they're wearing or not. But that's not the point. Of course, the new totalitarianism presented itself in full strength. Mr. President got off, and then the finals came, and the Prime Minister got off at Meltingpot. I'd like to ask our government if and where he's putting the money from the syri project. This is the project of this new totalitarianism, which will release 600 million crowns for five years. It is true that it came from behind the covide, but it has never been used on political goals. We have information that this project is simply due to, I don't know, CZK 180 million this year. This project allegedly pays for various influence media. For example, today the iROZHLAS, which is the biggest Anti-Babish. Supposedly, there was some kind of research. [[10.10 hours]] And it would be interesting to know, because this government has no scruples, this government brutally bribes even the media, they normally campaign for tens of millions to tell citizens that eRecipe - which is our work - is that it boasts and other things. So it would be interesting if the Melting pot - and there they performed, of course, all podcasts, those so-called independent politicologists and anti-Babish commentators - and the Prime Minister came. So what did the Prime Minister tell us in the Creative Czech Republic panel? Czech as a brand. Yes, the Czech Republic was a brand. Bata's a brand, first Republic, we were a brand for Masaryk. And we had a lot of great brands that you guys destroyed after the revolution, those factories. And the Prime Minister says - the Czech Republic should be among the ten most successful countries in the world. Well, imagine that. And when we handed it over to him in December 2021, Prime Minister, we were in the ninth place of prosperous countries in the European Union. [[Most]] Well, you've fallen. You're in position 12. So what's going on? We were in that ten. You're 12. And it's gonna get worse because you're ruining this country. So the Prime Minister tells us - that means that there should be an economically developed, healthy country - yes - which is characterised by social cohesion - well, that fact, your social cohesion, we can see Jurečka taking money from the elderly - and which is developing in every way. It is important that a wider group of people share this vision not only across the political spectrum. Yes, of course, we've always fought to be proud of our country, our country. And for a large part of the company to have it. Well, I don't know - is the Prime Minister joking? I mean, we're... under our government and we could unfortunately only rule for two years, until 2019, then the covid was, which had a much worse impact on our economy and people's lives than the Ukraine you are still making excuses for. What impact did Ukraine have? Energy? Yeah, but it's your fault you didn't put a price on electricity from the producers! That it cost us, the Ukrajinec, 85 billion? Fine. Okay. Then say it. It cost us covid 450! And everyone knows where the money went. People's savings went up by 900 billion, we cut taxes and so on. So I guess the Prime Minister's joking, huh? Well, then he says we don't have a good transport infrastructure. Well, what did the ODS do after the revolution? Why didn't you marry a counselor? Why don't we have fast trains? Why? Now you've come to say that Minister Kupka, who at least somehow communicates with Havlíček, that he discovered America, that it would be the spinal highway... and where were you before 2013, under your reign, where you sat with Nečas? Eight hundred meters? Because it was corruption! [[In an elevated voice.]] Because you had an opposition agreement! And then Bárta came along and thought he'd done some business, too. Well, he didn't, because the construction companies said no. No. Yeah, there's no evidence. But we know what happened because we're talking to them. So the transport infrastructure - says the Prime Minister. And then the Prime Minister reminded the energy problem. We have nuclear power plants, we have coal, and we are a country capable of exporting electricity. Well, that's great, isn't it? So last year, we exported three times as much electricity. And once again, fellow citizens - do you know how much the Slovák pay for megawatt in Slovakia? Now the new administration has extended it... CZK 1,500. Do the math again. We have the most expensive electricity, dearest. The booby trap, that was fun, wasn't it? They're just kidding. We still have the most expensive electricity, and Minister Síkela is still telling us that we have full gas tanks. Oh, great. Try telling us how much CEZ bought it for, the gas, and how much he sold it for. That would be very interesting to know how much money you've spent on it. Energy, then. Yes, we export everywhere - Austria, Slovakia, we export, yes, to Slovakia, where people have multiples, three times cheaper electricity. And that was the whole inflation problem that you couldn't handle. You even caused inflation by haunting, still, yes. The only independent economist for me is Professor Švejnar. Everyone else, your experts, needs to see who's paying them, where they came from, where they've been. Pro-government, pro-government, even one counselor claims that what do our people, fellow citizens, allow themselves to do on vacation? Well, that's rude. No? It was best to beat the inflation so - everyone will be home, we won't eat, we won't go anywhere and then, you'd like that, 20 percent unemployment. [[by]] So the Prime Minister was talking about energy, that we forgot the world was evolving. Well, that's true, well, otherwise we'll become a country... So it's like a bad movie the Prime Minister says. Then the discussion took place about the future of the auto industry. Well, imagine. We must do everything we can to make sure that his transformation, which is necessary, is good. My idea is that we would actually have everything we need in the Czech Republic for the modern automotive industry... and basic raw materials such as lithium for batteries today - yes, Prime Minister, we have the lithium that the Bakalovec wanted to steal, you have it on ČEZ - but please, I've already told you repeatedly that the gigafactory... show the Volkswagen paper. After all, Volkswagen announced he was going to America, where he's gonna get crazy billions in dollars to build gigafactors. Why do you still insist on gigafactors? I understand that someone worth $7.5 billion wants to destroy the runway, the airport, the airport of Lína, the one that lost the founder of the TOP 09, rented it for 50 years and not a crown. [[Don't they?]] This is Secretary Černochová, okay? And I'm saying, it's NATO certified airport, so it's just supposed to stay there. I also read that environmental burdens - that was also stolen until 2014, before I joined the Ministry of Finance. We've discounted the contracts four times. Remember the megatonel, the 100 billion they tried to steal, the environmental contracts? But, of course, the media doesn't write about that because they're part of this new totalitarianism. So the future of the auto industry... Volkswagen said he's going to America with gigafactory, Macron opened one gigafactory, allegedly in Dunkerque he wants to build a second for 5,7 billion euros and Europe will give him 1.5 billion euros, allegedly. And most importantly, Prime Minister, you promised not to allow a ban on the production of cars with an internal combustion engine. And you lied again. You lied again. And I don't know why those fanatics in Europe are supposed to tell us what kind of car we're driving. Why? Synthetic fuel - dirty lie. They don't exist. There are three labs in the world where they are. And Prime Minister, get yourself an electro-car monitoring. So I'm gonna tell you a story now. On the pump, the nicest pump in Europe - you know, where it is, as it turns into Pruhonica - came one gentleman and parked in a handicapped place. And the manager goes to him and says you can't park here. And he opens the trunk, pulls out the crutches, pulls up his shirt, and his entire spine has stitches, unselected. And he starts telling a story. Porsche Taycan drives down the highway and suddenly smoke from the seat. The car's on fire. So he freaked out and braked. But the car goes up, it's a hundred and eighty. And he'll end up dead, or he'll kill himself, in a fire tank. When they told me the story, well, he's full of shit. [[I say?]] Well, he's not kidding. You do a diary monitoring, and that's where the car is really underwater. And now we can still see those Tesla burning. I saw one Tesla on Instagram - in China - driving faster, 200, about six villages - the video, it's there to see - and eventually it ends. [[In a pillar?]] Three dead. So that electric car-- that's what you put in our heads-- that's made in China for half. [[10.20 hours]] I don't want it, the electric cars! After all, car manufacturers have invested billions of euros in lower consumption, emissions. And all of this came in handy because these green freaks came in. And it's not a program, it's an ideology, it's an ideology. And that's what I've been talking about. Yes. In Germany, Angela Merkelová wanted to win the election against the Greens in Hessen. So she banned the core. That's where it started! That's where it started, where the destruction of European industry began, because Merkelová thought the tsunami would come to Germany like in Japan. Well, he's not coming, he's not coming. So that's the auto industry. Well, what did the Volkswagen say? That in the Czech Republic we will only produce internal combustion engines. Well, that's weird, isn't it? Well, if it's gone, fine, I'm just saying, Prime Minister, make sure that Volkswagen doesn't come one day, he's gonna put that Skodovka on the wagons, and he's gonna take the robots somewhere. Speaking of the automotive industry. You didn't contribute at all, you lied. You normally lied. And you guys are acting normal - if you apologize and say, well, that Hubáčková doesn't speak English, she didn't really know what, then she was crying there, she just screwed it up the same way Rakušan did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u25	I beg a word within the limits of decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u26	Yes. She didn't make it. Did you get the list from Mrs. Kovářová so we could know the words? But your colleague writes on Twitter K, you know, I only spoke P, you know, your party boss. He said Kalousek was a cat's dot, period, period. Well, where were we? The automobile industry? No? That's what the Prime Minister was saying, but he's not doing anything for it, he's not doing anything for it, so you didn't make it again, Prime Minister. So then the Prime Minister at Meltingpot said that we have one problem in our society, and that is that we underestimate ourselves and we don't see ourselves fairly when I say that we're going to be among the ten most successful countries in the world, so a lot of people are laughing, but is that real? Yes, Prime Minister, a lot of people laugh when you say so! We were the top ten in Europe, yes. Then, we are among the safest countries in the world, well, imagine... We didn't belong for us, Prime Minister. We were still in seventh place in 2021. Now we're on 12th. Crime is rising dramatically, there are Russian-language mobs here. Yes, and the Home Secretary isn't doing anything about it. Well, why? Because you announced you were cutting salaries, what did the cops do to you? Well, of course they're leaving. The safest country with the best health system in Europe. Yes, we have a minister, you've come and you've taken 14 billion insurance companies. You destroyed all our projects. National fight against cancer, 75 people will die again in the Czech Republic today and 200 people will get sick of cancer. You've destroyed the reform of psychiatric care. There are no medications. Yesterday, I was looking for a cure for a lady who has leukemia. It says here where I keep it, that Endiaron won't be until January! Next year. I'm not gonna elaborate. But I suggest you don't eat strawberries in Egypt, where it's supposed to fertilize with the urethra. [[Minister Černochová recommends another medicine from the site.]] What's it called? [[- Please...]] So the secretary says he's some kind of Antinal, so I don't know, but that's a recommendation. Excuse me? Me in Egypt [[- Please, on the microphone.]] The best health system, yes, we have the best doctors indeed and they deserve the investments that we have prepared. Prime Minister, you're from Brno, you're from Brno, you're the only cancer hospital, and that's where we put the billion-dollar prevention pavilion. What about the hospital in Brno and svatý Anna? And the Royal Vinohrady Burn Pavilion and the concentration of the Faculty Hospital and so on. So I was satisfied when Minister Stanjura said at the Health Conference that health was not a priority. Therefore, I have repeatedly asked that Minister Černochová fulfil her mission, we have 2%, we have a contract to go and do something for the citizens of the Czech Republic. To become Secretary of Health, and then she yells the money out. Well, I'll give you free advice, Madam Secretary. All those projects we've had that are important to people, because health comes first, so it would be nice if this government finally paid some attention to health care. We have the best health system, yes. Who cares about the health services outside the state? Well, of course the captains. See Regional Health in the Ústecký Region, this is today the largest group of health care in Bohemia. The South Bohemia Region works, too. And the React-EU, where we fought for the money and pushed 22 billion for all hospitals, regardless of whether there's a party in charge or not. Yes. Even in Nymburk, they got $150 million, and hopefully you'll exhaust it all. So the Prime Minister got off on the meltingpot and talked about the plans, but he's doing something completely different. So the balance sheet of this government, which hasn't even been there for two years, the debt, you've fallen again, Prime Minister. We gave it to you, we were six. You're down to eighth and now you're down to ninth. So we, as opposition, still have to disprove the lies. It's very difficult, of course, because the media is recording to you. Those servile conversations, unbelievable. I was doing a video last week when I was being chased by an editor at N Lex Babiš 2 that Babiš wasn't supposed to have the media, so now I was doing a video about Saturday's Lidovka edition. How many articles he's manipulating against us there. That's part of the fund. And I'm not going back to the presidential campaign where the Lidovky articles came out that Babiš can't be president. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. People choose, people have. So these things... So if Mr. Jakob is performing here in the morning saying that we're gonna be doing the reconnaissance, no, we're using the space here, and I'm not reading any books or laws here to tell people our opinion, because we don't have anywhere else to say it. We don't! When we go to the media, of course they're talking to us, so here and we can, of course, on the networks, we do that. And with amazement, we just note how the Prime Minister here writes: Inflation is falling, we are on the right track, but we must not let go. So the Prime Minister actually says that he determines all prizes in the Czech Republic. I could read all the Prime Minister's lies here since 2020. That's where he said 22. 12.: I am in favour of tax reductions under any circumstances and with any pretext for any reason and whenever possible. That's a quote from the famous economist Milton Friedman and so on. So he kept saying he wouldn't raise taxes, he would save, he would talk. Norwegian gas, also lies and other things, so I could read this place for a long time, but I'd really like to do that. I think everyone knows and should know that this government, which has de facto done almost nothing for people during its period, is really a lie. They lie constantly and with the support of the various selected media, of course. But people aren't blind, they see it, the questions, they see the double standard. [[10.30 hours]] And I've already talked about what's going on between people today, what's the problem with energy shortages. Yes, and now we've read the singles. Yes, during our reign, we pushed for the government, although, of course, it was a big debate that the state should help the singles, so that the father of their children together does not pay, which is completely absurd that the state will not reach it, but at least something has been done. Now it's supposed to be extended, so let's see what happens. But this government doesn't really have a program. Nobody's asking the government what kind of program are you on? The government's programming statement didn't matter, then you modified it a little bit. Nobody knows. Nobody. The package wasn't in the program. So the budget - of course, the proposals are completely insane. This government doesn't know what a sport is, reconstruction of monuments, etc. And especially now that it's dry, we've started the dry fight. We supported 21,000 projects worth 17 billion from 2014 to 2021, and at least one supported project aimed at dealing with drought can be found in every other municipality in the Czech Republic. Thousands of projects have been created. We launched a nationwide program We're planting a future for planting trees - four million trees outside the forest, hundreds of millions of seedlings we've made, we've created new pools, wetlands, ponds. Yes, the ponds where the coalition is now proposing zero tax, because the nobles have the ponds, so I understand. And it's just awfully spicy when the finance minister was here, and he said that the ponds couldn't be checked. And the article came out right away, probably by coincidence, that some audition from the Treasury Department who discovered fraud on pond subsidies, somehow removed or did not allow it to go on. So I'm gonna go back to the water. Since 2016, we have implemented 480 projects to strengthen drinking water sources. We have provided drinking water for 300,000 inhabitants. Rainbow. Remember? Ten thousand projects, 2,000 home sewage treatment plants, 200 taps, etc. We've done all this. And what did we have in the election program? We had that we would provide new sources of quality drinking water for another 500,000 people, we would support projects for better water management in another 750 municipalities. Rainbow. And we've prepared new water tanks. There hasn't been a dam since the revolution. Yes? New Heřmin, Vlachovice, Skalička, Kryry, Senomaty, Šanov. And these are projects in places where there is a shortage of drinking water. And the government? This government, the worst government in our country's history, has admitted in its programming statement that it will not support the construction of new water tanks. You hear me well, fellow citizens! Fialův's government doesn't want to support new water tanks. Only, and only in exceptional cases of water supply, i.e. for drinking water purposes. So we think that's a major mistake. So even in this fight against drought, this government is simply doing nothing. And I'm not even gonna talk about agriculture and food, 'cause they walled it up right after the revolution, and that's why we got it the way we got it. So it's our seniors. There are analyses, supportive analyses, as they are supposedly doing well. I don't know. The increase was legal, you didn't like it, and it's not as high as inflation was. And here's the article on May 3th: People with debt after maturity are increasing. It's the worst of seniors. Yes, seniors. This is where the situation is created, this government is creating a hostile environment against the elderly. The articles come out that actually old people have enough. But, of course, when we were in government, we supported young families. After all, even in that government with KDU-ČSL, we reduced the tax burden for married couples depending on how many children they had. Everyone's forgotten about that. Yes. They don't want to add, but of course the churches have an inflationary clause, so they get eight billion. So here it was a survey, KRUK, and they point out that this is a serious problem - debt after maturity, and the largest share, 50 percent of debt after maturity exceeding CZK 100,000, people in the highest age category have 65 or more. A hundred thousand crowns! Retirement. So, of course, that's a huge amount for pensioners. Inflation and a generally unfavourable economic situation lead to an annual increase in the proportion of people who are not able to pay their commitments regularly. Above all, the high proportion of people in retirement age, etc., is alarming. So this is all on the table. I find it scandalous that for the first time in the history of our country, we have a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who walks and convinces us that we have to take money from the elderly. So the new totalitarianism is gonna outrun us again today, and they're gonna say how they allowed us to perform here. I was here last week repeating that the whole tax package was useless, that we should have taken unpaid leave and come back in September, because we don't even know what would happen next in September, how it would change, what the budget would be, etc. So let's not let anyone blame us that if-- and so far we can still talk here, even though the hints that they won't let us do that, we're gonna use that, and it's not obstruction. I didn't read anything here. I usually talk down because I've been through it, I've been through it, I've been there. Yes, and I was the man who ran the government - he ran the government, although it was not easy under the applicable Civil Service Act, where state secretaries often had greater competence than the Minister. So we are fundamentally opposed to robbing pensioners, we are fundamentally opposed to raising taxes. We clearly told you what to do, and the biggest recovery package would be if you wrap it up and hand it over to people who can. And we proved to the government that we can do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u27	Thank you and please the Vice-President of the Government, Marian Jurečka. In the meantime, I'm gonna take a moment to read my apologies. Mr Havránek - all the day for work, Mr Šimon Heller takes back his apology for the whole day of the meeting, which was for personal reasons, and before that was the apology from Mr Šimon Heller. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u28	Thank you. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I originally wanted to speak in my speech only to the amendment that we are discussing now, but also to respond to what has now been said by Mr Okamura Andrej Babiš for about an hour, but I will be very brief in order that there is really room for Members and Members to read and present their proposals for this press, but I will allow myself to briefly recapitulate when saying that there is some new totalitarianism, new times and so on. I would like to remind you that when I was in that government that Mr Andrej Babiš was talking about, when it was going on for so long, for example, about EET, we also watched and counted the total hours of debate that were really there. Something else is the point to open for an hour, but when we counted the sum, it's similar to the current situation, even the previous one. We are roughly in the same intensities as how many hours were really devoted to this discussion, to the press then and today, so it is not so that we could compare that it took a different time in terms of days. The key is how many hours the House really, really spent on it. I would just like to remind myself here that at first reading there were 41 performances, at second reading there were 90 performances and at third reading so far 55 performers, i.e. a total of 186 performers for all these three readings. [[10.40 hours]] This third reading already lasts on the third day of the meeting, which is certainly not usual and when I add it up, it is roughly - some 70 percent of the speeches were deposed by colleagues from the opposition. I have really tried to respond at first and second reading during the general debate. I am, of course, ready to respond at the third reading before the end of the debate. And let me remind you that the first reading before it opened took 7 hours, it was quite a long obstruction. At the very point of the first reading, we negotiated six hours. The second reading before the point - the debate with the priority rights - that was three and three quarters of an hour. The point itself then more than 8 hours. And at the third reading, we are already in a situation where, before that point itself, more than 5 hours have already been spoken, and the debate itself has lasted almost 5 hours to that point which has been opened. So there can't be an argument here that there's no room for performance, which I think is here. And so that I don't hold back, I'll thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u29	Thank you. The next priority right is President Schillerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I admit that today I am very upset and disappointed by what is happening in the Chamber of Deputies. Just a five-wheeler who's aware of her hundred eight is acting incredibly rocky and arrogant. In the media, since Friday we have heard the announced planned restriction on the opposition's right to express our opinion, and this is a demonstration of the arrogance of power for me. Today, when it is to be approved, it is absolutely hard to approve without giving us the opportunity to express ourselves, all those who want to express themselves, so today the hard and force-approved adjustment of the basic parameters of the pension system will negatively affect the life of roughly 2.8 million, or less than three million Czech pensioners and hundreds of thousands of citizens in the pre-accession age. So the impact of this amendment on the life of seniors is really not negligible. Changing the calculation of valuations, along with other adjustments, is essential legislation that will lead to the cutting of future pensions. But you don't want to discuss it today. You're not in the mood anymore. Why don't you want to discuss it? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not kid ourselves, let's face what's obvious here. The five-wheelers of the government are slowly sitting here wrapped up and ready for vacation. Thanks for not leaving their suitcases full of sunscreen in the lobby. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] The five-wheelers here already imagine sunbathing on sandy beaches with mojitos in their hands and the last thing they think about and what they let their travel plans spoil are Czech pensioners. [[right?]] What did we hear this morning from Chairman Jakob? How are we supposed to talk, he even qualified us for what obstruction is and what isn't obstruction? For hours it measured how many hours were obstruction and how many hours were not obstruction. I'd like to see what he was measuring it by. What he was coming from. He even told us what they started in total time and what they didn't start in total time. He even simply told us how to speak and how to behave properly, for example, in factual remarks. It's a fair point of fact. What else are you going to standardize for us, five-wheelers? Government MPs! What? And that they were or weren't obstructive speeches, Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka? They were, weren't they? That what's enough for us, you're lecturing us? How much time do we have for it or for it? Well, I'll remind you of the EET as soon as I move forward in my speech. It's just a new era. A new era! The five-calice standardizes what and how long we have to say. And that I vouched on behalf of two ANO and SPD MPs - that I blew the meeting after 2:00 p.m.? Well, I wouldn't have brought it up. What, are we going to help you with the law that we are actually dealing with? What kind of person do we disagree with? Well, you don't think we're that stupid. Why would we do that? [[Let's hear it for yes.]] Why would we do that to our seniors? It is all the more bizarre that they are the same Members who constantly claim to have submitted pension reform. I know today's amendment to the law very well, I know in detail what it is about. This is obvious and it is clear that these are mere parametric changes to deprive Czech pensioners of funds. Petr Fiala's antisocial government has repeatedly chosen pensioners as its targets. Because pensioners just don't go out on the streets, they don't start protesting in bulk. The proposed changes will lead to the pensioners' standard of living gradually falling behind the living standards of the rest of the population. These are the facts! But if I were really so naive and believed in your PR and marketing of all the well-paid advisors your ministries are crawling with, I would start to think that you have put forward a fundamental reform of the whole system and, in view of that, I would expect that parliamentary discussions should be all the more important to you. Nothing again. I find it completely unacceptable that the speaking time itself was limited to us even before the first Member ever spoke. Let's look at a few numbers. The meeting was opened on 8. 6. 2023, and therefore only 47 days have passed since the beginning. More importantly, it only took five days. And today we begin day six. If we look at the number of speakers, there were 43 speakers from the government parties and 85 from the opposition, i.e. de facto only twice as many, in all readings. It is quite clear from these figures that the opposition is not sharpening, it is merely actually debating the legislation with which it fundamentally disagrees. For example, only 26 speakers spoke out of opposition at first reading, which clearly illustrates that only some Members have spoken on the issue. Only the YES movement itself, if it wants to reconstruct, it has much more power in the House. Moreover, it is quite clear that we simply need to express ourselves on the cuts that you apply to pensioners. It is the second amendment, which you are interfering with the financial stability of Czech pensioners in a fundamental and unacceptable way for us. Today, a number of our Members have prepared a speech in which they argue their position on the proposed amendment. These Members have used their expertise but also their different life experiences to present their arguments, positions and opinions. These are arguments of elected representatives of Czech citizens, which should be heard here. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] Colleagues, allow me to end my speech by quoting one political scientist. I quote: We have witnessed the rape of the Rules of Procedure by the government majority. The law was broken when the debate was closed. A number of Members were unable to speak up and comment. - I agree. End of quote. [[10.50 hours]] This is the statement of a political scientist who called it a black day for Czech parliamentary democracy the day the debate in the Chamber of Deputies on electronic records of sales was concluded. Coincidentally, this political scientist - well, he's not - was this political scientist in this room today. I suppose you know I'm talking about Prime Minister Petr Fial. Many of you here are memorials, and you know how many days, weeks, months electronic sales records have been received. Those were real obstructions. Those were real obstructions from your opposition party back then. We are only here on the sixth day discussing the financial stability of a quarter of the Czech population. Putting an end to this discussion is just an obvious expression - and I will say it again - of the arrogance of power, not of the YES movement, not of the opposition. It's an arrogance of power towards those less than three million of our pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u31	Thank you. And another with priority rights is signed by President Okamura. It's the last one logged in with priority rights so far, and I'll beg for a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u32	So, ladies and gentlemen, we have here today another continuation of the Fialův Government proposal that the Fialův Government wants to rob all current and future pension recipients. The SPD movement, of course, does not agree with this and we will vote against it. Unlike the Fialův Government, we are promoting measures against inflation, not against pensioners. And the SPD wants to maintain the existing pension valorization against the government's five-caliber. Well, what's the current status? So I finally - I was answered by government officials on what the costs of Ukrainians are in the Czech Republic. Because we've been discussing today for the past few days that the government wants to rob our decent citizens of money and at the same time to transfer this money to Ukrajinec and to transfer it to Ukrajinec. That's the point. So he robs our decent people - The Fialův government - it's still doing it all on credit, sending money to the Ukrajinec, and now it's going to forward it. Well, here I gave a written interpelation to the Home Secretary, Vít Rakušan, so how much of our money did the Ukrajinec get? Well, the situation is really shocking, because Fialův's five-calice government sent to Ukrajinec, those migrants who came to the Czech Republic, together they have already agreed to CZK 40.5 billion. I got an answer here, it's a simple sum, and it's a document I received from Home Secretary Vít Rakušan based on my written interpelation, because when I asked him verbally, we never received the answer, and it's the document I received here. So CZK 40.5 billion was given by the government to Ukrajinec here in the Czech Republic, plus Prime Minister Fiala mentioned this spring that over 40 billion was still given by the government in the form of weapons to Ukraine. This means, together, it is a circus of CZK 100 billion - the government gave Ukrajinec and, at the same time, for the second time this year it wants to rob all pensioners in the Czech Republic and now even increase taxes for all citizens in the Czech Republic. And that's the introduction I wanted to say and what I'm basically gonna be talking about here today. So I've got it in black and white. There are individual items, individual chapters that the government has agreed to. Moreover, of course, it must be pointed out that the Fialův Government is not yet done with these expenses. Because the answer from Home Secretary Vít Rakušan is written, and it's another one, it's basically confirmed what I've been saying here for a year, that the Fialův government doesn't count on those Ukrainian migrants, to a large extent they're economic migrants, we all know that, now they're going on vacation to Ukraine, they're going back, they're going on vacation in mass. České dráhy and STUDENT AGENCY have increased connections to Ukraine, it has already been done by mainstream media that they are going to Ukraine. So, of course, if a fugitive goes on vacation to the country from which he escaped, he's not one, so of course he's not a fugitive, he's a normal economic migrant, that's what the Fialův government supports. Moreover, the answer from the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement clearly shows that the government is not counting on the return of Ukrajinec to Ukraine. He's counting on them to stay here. And it's exactly the lie I've been pointing out to her, that's what your friend, former Ukrainian Ambassador Perebyjnis, said, and you said they were going back to Ukraine, those migrants. It's not true. It's the lie you've been lying to all citizens of the Czech Republic all along. Even your document, the answer I got, is fully counting on the Ukrajinec to stay here. This means that the burden at the expense of Czech citizens will continue. Here I would like to point out that according to official statistics, more than every tenth citizen in the Czech Republic, every tenth person in the Czech Republic who has a legal residence here, is a foreigner. This means - and in large cities it is even more. That means the citizens here are becoming foreigners in their own country. Indeed, literally thousands of people write to me in this sense, just look at my social networks in discussions, where there are three to five thousand people a day on average only in the discussions on my networks - they write in discussions. So it's a really big sample. And I say daily. That means tens of thousands of citizens are commenting on this situation on my networks. That means, here's the black and white. So you are giving 40.5 billion crowns in Ukraine - only in the Czech Republic. I did the exact math based on the answer, that's clearly quantified. There are clearly numbers and costs. Plus $40 billion to send weapons. I'll get to that. So this is the situation where you take our citizens. Moreover, it is really very disgusting that you are taking away the most needy citizens who can no longer help themselves, which, of course, are beneficiaries of pensions, for example, but they are single mothers too, they are of course low-income working citizens. Prime Minister Fiala boasted repeatedly on TV, I saw it myself and here too, that you boast that the number of Czech citizens is growing on doses. Well, that's completely unbelievable. Every government should aim to keep people out of dosages, but you still brag about sending people to social welfare. At this point - this moment, of course, is for the immediate resignation of this government. Well, she's got a much worse situation than what you're doing. Because not only do we all know that your government is in a record debt to the Czech Republic. This means that we basically have the largest public finance deficit this year in the history of the independent Czech Republic. It's the 300 billion crowns circus. And when we stack up the planned deficits, that means last year, this year and next year are elections to the House, the deficit can be estimated to be one full two, 1.2 trillion crowns in your government, increasing the deficit. By the way, even because of this incompetent government of yours, when I say treasonous approach to Czech citizens, for the first time, the Czech Republic's debt exceeded the magical limit of three trillion crowns. So the Czech citizens have been coming out of your debts for generations. Now you're taking loans with a maturity of 2056, 2057, which means 30 years, 30 years will be paid back after you. This is unbelievable. And now you are thinking of borrowing another CZK 137 billion from the European Commission, the European Union and the European Commission to finance further increases for citizens of the Czech Republic. [[11.00 hours]] Yes, you can hear me well. You want to finance further increases for citizens of the Czech Republic, because the loan you want to take, again it is a loan for decades, CZK 137 billion, is intended to finance various projects resulting from the Green Deal of the EU. That means, the Green Deal EU, that's exactly why people here pay, today our citizens, increasingly expensive energy, increasingly expensive food... cars get expensive, everything in the Czech Republic gets expensive. Different forced heating, now you're also going to have to warm up people's houses, but also their apartments and so on. The average apartment building, according to the calculations, is based on 20 million crowns of warming, as we saw the figures. Where are people supposed to get that? That means this is your way. That means you're in debt in an outrageous way, and even to that loan of CZK 137 billion that you... you are taking another loan, and I want to stress that the European Union has no money, as you know. She's out of money, she's out of bonds. He issues bonds for this and guarantees all the Member States, including the Czech Republic, for these bonds, so he borrows to redistribute some money at all. This is as incredible as what you nod here and what you agree with and what the European Union is doing. After all, even the National Recovery Fund from that time of the covid, they called it the grand name of the National Recovery Fund, it was also on the basis of bonds and it is no longer the money of the European Union, because it does not have any. This is our money and it is based on the liability of the Czech Republic, which means the liability of all citizens in the Czech Republic. It's unbelievable! The European Union has no money, it's economic, it's already going towards economic collapse, and you agree with it here. Of course, we have fundamental reservations about this loan, but not just us as the SPD, but there are also doubts about the advantages of this loan among economic experts, including members of the National Budget Board of the Government. Moreover, this move is directed completely against the declared government's intention to restore public finances. But we've gotten used to it. That you, as economist Švihlíková said on Prima, a renowned economist, lied, lied, and lied. You just lie permanently! It's a really lying government. That's never really been here before. And let's go to the credit that, moreover, you want to take from the European Commission, but it also has the money for debt, so it's a debt union, it's not the European Union, it's a debt union. And roughly 2/3 of this loan is going to be lent by the current government itself to other entities, which means it's a loan loan, a loan... it's just a plane. It's a normal so-called plane. And the remaining third is intended to provide subsidies, but within the framework of the Green Deal, which again make the lives of all citizens of the Czech Republic more expensive. This structure is incredible. But that is the European Union today, that is the policy of the Fialův Government. This astronomical loan from the European Commission means only another increase in the public debt of the Czech Republic by more than two percentage points. As a result of this loan, public budget deficit will increase by up to 0.6% of GDP each year, which is a monstrous figure because we are talking about GDP across the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic Fialův has the second highest annual debt growth within the European Union by 1.7 percentage points and the Czech Republic's total government debt by the end of the first quarter of this year, as I said, has already exceeded three trillion crowns. Fully astronomical housenumer, how the Fialův government manages and leads the Czech Republic to financial problems. Moreover, the use of this loan is limited to projects that comply with EU objectives and regulations. Well, that's the Green Deal. This means that everything will only get more expensive again, the lives of the citizens of the Czech Republic will get more expensive. So, of course, the SPD strongly rejects the fact that the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is indebting the next generation without the knowledge and consent of the Chamber of Deputies. And why am I talking about this? So, how's Fialův's government running? Let me just recap this opening passage I'm talking about. So, for the second time this year, you're here to rob all current and future pension recipients. For the second time! You have already robbed them this June - from June on average by a thousand crowns a month, because you have abolished the legal valorisation to which the citizens were entitled in June. Here I would just point out that it was a valorisation based on the high inflation that your government caused, because inflation in the Czech Republic is one time about as high as average inflation in the European Union. By the way, Switzerland and Liechtenstein have the lowest inflation, which do not have the euro, there is 1.7 %, in the Czech Republic it is about 10 percent. This means that you yourself will cause a great increase in energy prices by your inability, there is high inflation on the basis of which pensioners should have received, including pensioners, not only old-age but also disabled pensioners, it concerned, it also concerns widow's pensions and orphan's pensions, so they should have received valorisation. That's what you robbed them of, and now again here you're planning to rob retired people in the direction of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, and of course this proposal concerns the whole of Fialův's five-calice government. At the same time, again, as I say, in Ukrainians, Ukrajinec, those mostly economic migrants who are going to the Czech Republic, you have given 40.5 billion, plus 40 billion for weapons. It's gonna be a lot more than that, which is why it's a $100 billion circus, 'cause with those guns, it's a spring reading. In the spring, Prime Minister Petr Fiala said so in the media. I saw it myself, his statement. Anyone can play the video. So 100 billion crowns to the Ukrajinec, but you're totally pissing our people off. You will take and redistribute our people to Ukrajinec and to expensive, overpriced various foreign contracts that Secretary of Defense Černochová here is hiding behind these contracts. Those are the infantry combat vehicles and so on. It really stinks there, and experts talk about it. So this is the policy of the Fialův Government, and the number you released on those Ukrainians, that's what needs to be repeated here, because it's new information. I got that interview yesterday, so I got it all in writing. Well, once again, I would like to reiterate that you are not counting on the return of those migrants back to Ukraine. It was a huge lie you lied to the whole Czech Republic. And you're counting on them to stay here, which means it's at the expense of Czech citizens again, and I don't understand at all, it's a clear violation of all laws and regulations, that you've actually legalized economic migrants here. No one has anything against helping, adequate to help so that... of course, adequate to help real war refugees. Appropriate, limited in time so that it does not, of course, decrease, and that Czech citizens do not get into poverty, they do not get into trouble. But legalizing economic migrants in this way, it really is the top. That's a crime! This is a criminal approach, including these expenses. That is, of course, a problem, and I will stress once again that the SPD wants to be in the next government, and we will abolish these harmful measures. We will cancel them and make order again so that the Czech citizen comes first. Let's move on. Now, of course, the Fialův Government is escalating further, because the European Union has come up with another proposal... Well, I'll stop by the money. The European Union, yes, is the policy of the Fialův Government, when Commissioner Ursula von Der Leyenová said in Madrid this month when the Španěl took over the Presidency of the EU Council, called on EU Member States to send hundreds of billions more to the European Union. Hundreds of billions! Of course, we talk in euros. [[11.10 hours]] Because the European Union has no money. The only one who spoke out against this is Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. And in this we have a similar position as Viktor Orbán, Hungary, because he asks where all the money is, what has already been sent to the European Union? Where are they? When even the Member State of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, has no information on what is actually going on with them. It's normally criminal management, it's a bottomless well. The European Union has no money. So stop lying and inventing, those supporters of Brussels and the European Union, that the European Union is sending us money here. This is our money, it is money for debt, the European Union has no money. He's been issuing bonds for years. They're out of money completely. It's a failure of the project. And we'll all be paying for it for decades. And now, the new European Union wants to provide from the common money, which it wants to raise, of course, or borrow, on bonds. But she wants to choose them from countries that are themselves in debt - see. The Fialův Government, how you manage here with the Czech Republic. And now he wants to send 20 billion euros to arms in Ukraine. And I'm telling the SPD that we disagree. And I know that we are the only party in Parliament that has been opposed to sending weapons to Ukraine since the beginning. Because, in general, when you send weapons into an ongoing war, the war only extends and prolongs the suffering of tens of thousands of other soldiers and civilians. The SPD movement here alone - and we stand by it - has preferred from the outset negotiations and a peaceful solution to this conflict. So we're really opposed to sending weapons to Ukraine. The European Union is considering adding another EUR 20 billion to the assistance of the Fialův Government, a CZK 470 billion circus. Now I'd stop by on that deadline. They called the fund, which is on debt, of course, I've already said that here, which I've actually noted three exclamation points for that, the European Peace Facility. So sending weapons to an ongoing conflict, which will make more tens of thousands of people dead and injured, is called the European Peace Facility. Indeed, sending weapons to an ongoing war is not a peaceful instrument. This is indeed another nonsense, as it was with the covid, where they called it the European Recovery Plan. Here again, government politicians lied, but so did the representatives of the YES movement that it was EU money. Well, that was money on the basis of bonds, it's money on the debt from which the Czech Republic guarantees. So what money from the EU? That's different. And now the suggestion that another 20 billion to kill each other in Ukraine should be made. The proposal was made last week at the meeting of EU foreign ministers. Member States should decide to release this money by this autumn, which is in a very short period of time, and their 100% agreement is needed, as each country has the right to veto on this matter. And interestingly, what is said here by the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell, who demands that this in quotation marks be the European Peace Facility - he is not European, that is the lie again. This, in turn, is a narrative that the EU is equal to Europe. It's not true. There are many countries in Europe, whether it be Switzerland and others that are not in the European Union, it is Britain and others, and they are certainly European countries. That, again, is the lie of those pro-EU activists, those pro-EU politicians, that they are trying to lie about putting an equal between Europe and the EU. It's not like that. Nor is it true that who is against the EU is not pro-European. On the contrary. Whoever is in favour of politics in Brussels, as Brussels has shown today - in recent years, is, in my view, anti-European, because they are destroying Europe, destroying Europe by migration, destroying Europe's debts that are going to be difficult to pay back, for decades in advance. So let us not really set a balance between Europe and the EU. It's something else. It really is something else, and I say again, everyone seems to know geography and the EU is not like Europe. It's part of Europe. And, as we know, according to the latest survey by the CVVM Centre for Public Opinion Research in the Czech Republic, only 46 percent of citizens believe in the European Union, which means most do not. Thus, from this point of view, most Czech citizens are certainly Evropan, the majority who do not agree with the EU, and there is no equality between EU policy and Europe. That's definitely not true. As I say, EU policy is anti-European. It's anti-European politics. It is a policy against the interests of the Czech Republic. And if I go back to the EUR 20 billion that the European Union now wants to put on more mutual killings in Ukraine, Hungary is protesting this procedure, refusing to agree to release another series of half-billion-dollar payments from this fund to arms for Ukraine. Again, I say that the Hungarian position is close to the SPD and we consider it reasonable. We are saying this here as the only party from the beginning, as the only party in Parliament, we are opposed to sending weapons to Ukraine. We're not at war, as Prime Minister Fiala lied here, we're not at war, don't drag us into war. I think that's enough. We refuse to participate in the escalation of the military conflict in Ukraine in the form of further supplies of weapons and ammunition, which only prolongs the suffering of another 10,000 soldiers and civilians. Let's move on because the problem is really big. Plus stealing from those old people on your side. And once again, I have to stress this again, because, of course, I am moving among citizens, and it needs to be stressed that this is not just about old-age pensioners. Because you were robbing and robbing this year - and everyone saw that they didn't receive the promised valorisation, the disabled and the orphans and widowers. So you robbed 3 million people across the board in the Czech Republic. At the expense of sending 100 billion crowns to the Ukrajinec. And the overpriced contracts. I mean, it was incredible, now that I saw the video, as Minister Jana Černochová said on Czech TV, that the 122 billion to buy their overpriced American fighters F-35, that those costs already include the other technical costs, such as the adjustment of Čáslav airport and so on. And I heard the statement, it was a lie, because it doesn't involve the costs. So the Secretary of State said it on live TV on Czech TV, so I deliberately played the video twice to make sure it was another lie. And so now I don't know if it was a deliberate lie or incompetence, but either way, it's wrong when we talk about public billions. You're throwing a real shovel, throwing public billions there, here, throwing it without any judgment. So that's really very alarming, this kind of incompetent expression. So it's really unbelievable. And just for saying that when public money is being dealt with here in this way, it's really a question of whether or not the Secretary of State is competent to serve as Secretary of Defense. But let's keep going. As far as inflation goes, you're saying you don't have a pension. Yeah, but the situation was caused by you as the Fialův government. Let me just remind you that the Czech Republic has on average, now that I have seen the updated figures again, the highest electricity and gas prices in Central Europe. In both electricity and gas parameters, the Czech Republic has higher prices, i.e. citizens and companies pay higher prices than the average price in the European Union. And that's not all. Because according to the official data, and I have already mentioned it here, Czech citizens, Czech companies also pay the highest prices of gas and electricity from all countries of Central Europe due to the Fialův Government. Of all of them. Including Germany and Austria. Attention. So due to the Fialův government, Czech citizens and companies pay higher prices of gas and electricity than in Hungary, Slovakia, Austria, Germany and Poland. [[11.20 hours]] So your lies and excuses to Ukraine that Prime Minister Fiala keeps showing off, that's really... He's normally a pathological liar, that man. Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Austria and Germany are logically in the same situation. In the same or similar situation. Yet the Czech Republic has the highest gas and electricity prices in Central Europe, and we are the only Central European country that has them above the EU average. That means, that's a felony, that. In this way, pull billions out of the pockets of all our decent citizens and companies. Just because you were ceilinging prices high and just because you couldn't take the measures they had taken in the surrounding countries. That's really crazy, and it needs to be said here. Now you're saying that you don't have money for disabled pensioners, you've rejected the SPD proposal to increase your care allowance, you're saying that you don't have money for families with children, for working families with children, you're saying that you don't have money for disabled, old-age, widowed and orphaned pensioners. You don't have the money for students to get a discount on both fare and retirement. In fact, you stole money from all citizens of the Czech Republic across the board so that you could transfer senseless compensations to energy distributors, because you didn't stop at the way you were supposed to, not just in time, and still high. You haven't even taken an example from the surrounding countries as the SPD has called for you to do since last year. We have more expensive food than that in Poland, so even the food, the basic needs of life, are escalating pricelessly here. And where are people supposed to get the money for that? But more importantly, we need to compare ourselves with the surrounding countries. This means that you are still crushing the Czech economy by forcing citizens to go shopping for food to Poland. That means retail sales are falling, as we know, which, of course, is an economic problem, because then the income of the state that could be falling. And of course, at the same time, with the large-scale tax increase you're up to, that's your stealing package where you're increasing VAT across the board, you've already raised the oil tax, and you haven't paid it back. Please don't lie. It was supposed to be true by the end of the year, and now you've cut it short, the discount on the crown of fifty. It's not true again. It's just these half-truths, and the lies that you keep presenting, but I think people already have an overview, and they can just see it. And I have to say, that's a real problem. This means that in the Czech Republic there was an annual increase in gas prices by 231 % compared to 2021/2002. It is the most in the whole of the European Union, the most. By the way, if you look at the numbers, the statistics that the Purple government knows, you just keep quiet about them, Hungary has the cheapest price of gas in the whole of the European Union from all EU countries. It is, by the way, thanks to the bilateral treaty with Russia. But it's just the way it is. The lowest price of gas in the European Union. Electricity, by the way. The year-on-year price increase in the Czech Republic by 97 percent is the second highest increase in the whole European Union after Romania. So this is how the Czech people and companies are treated by the Purple Government. Well, the point is that Minister Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates has four cars with a driver, that he ordered at the Ministry of Regional Development, which he leads, a luxury catering for CZK 20 million, that is to say, a luxury food delivery. We hear he ordered a special photographer to go to Japan for 100,000 to take pictures of him. Well, that's completely incredible, I have to say, well. At the same time, Minister Bartoš of the Pirates is in charge of addressing the availability of housing in the government. He didn't do anything. There are expensive housing costs, overpriced housing, that decent and working Czech citizens can't even rent an apartment in Prague anymore. Well logically, because the Ukrainian economic migrants of course increased demand and, of course, increased rents so that the Czech citizens... Czech citizens don't have the money to do this anymore, so it tells me a lot of citizens and the campaign that they want to go to work in Prague, young people are simply people who want to work, they are skilled people who want to work, but they can't, because, of course, the rents have risen so much because of the Ukrajinec that, of course, the availability of housing has gotten worse for our citizens. But it doesn't matter to the pirát, the pirát are for absolute migration, mixing here with Africans and simply Muslims, with everything, and that's just totally acceptable. At the same time, I would like to point out that it was just Pirates, along with KDU-ČSL, with the folklore, who blocked us here in the last parliamentary term with a bill of SPD to end the abuse of unadaptable doses. So the KDU-ČSL and the pirát, they're the ones who primarily support the inadaptable here. Well, it was Mrs Richterová of the Pirates, and Mr Čižinský, a KDU-ČSL MP, specifically. Well, we're the proposal... so it didn't work out very well in the last term, the proposal, we've already pushed it through to third reading, so they're still sucking up the dosages. If this bill of ours had already been paid here, the circus would have saved a billion. I've talked about it several times, we've calculated it. But you'd rather give inadaptables, you'd rather hand over to strangers, but you'd like to give out a Czech citizen, like I said, totally pissing off your skin. So the Minister of Regional Development Bartoš is in charge of dealing with available housing. You've done nothing in the government for almost two years, and of course it's a problem, okay? They're playing a dead bug here, and they're the ones who have it in their minds to deal with it. Let's move on. Migration. This is, of course, a huge problem, because the EU migration pact that the Fialův government agreed to, of course, that's right, that's just treason, that's just treason, that's just treason. And why do I want to talk about it again? Because it's 25. 7. This week Prime Minister Fiala, and the article, you can look at the title quickly too, and I also put it on my social networks, so said Prime Minister Fiala on TV, and I quote that the migration pact is advantageous for the Czech Republic. Well, that's the point. That means the Fialův Government, the Prime Minister of the Fiala and the Interior Minister of Vít Rakušan for the STAN movement agreed on us without us having any discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, agreed to either be... and there are quotas, of course. The Maďar pointed it out at the meeting, even at the meeting, the meeting was brought to the attention and migration... So either the Purple Government has agreed that we will either - the Czech Republic - accept African and Islamic migrants, or we will pay extortion, otherwise we cannot call it EUR 20,000, in the sum of CZK 500,000 for each rejected migrant. Well, that's crazy. Poland and Hungary have opposed it. And I would really like the Fialův Government to finally stop lying, because Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki commented, the migration pact, quite clearly. The Němec responsible for migration have the nerve to challenge us to solidarity. It's the Němec, isn't it, which here... Merkelová just dragged unadaptable migrants into Europe. And further: Prime Minister Morawiecki, Commissioner from Brussels or Berlin will not dictate what we should do, how we should protect our borders. This is not a migration pact, it is a dictation whose aim is also to change Europe culturally, end of quote, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecký. What does Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, say about this? I quote: Brusel is using its powers to place migrants in Hungary by force. This is unacceptable, they want to force Hungary into a country of migrants. End of the quote of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. They are representatives of political parties in their countries, which have half the support of citizens, repeatedly, about half. That's what Prime Minister Fiala, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, is telling us. And Prime Minister Fiala here says 25. 7. 2023 on Prima TV, that means yesterday that the migration pact is advantageous for the Czech Republic. So, obviously, from your point of view, yes, because the Fialův government considers it advantageous to receive African and Islamic migrants here. [[11.30 hours]] We at the SPD don't see it as advantageous. We think it's scary, and we say it needs to be prevented. That it is necessary to preserve literally at any cost, at any cost it is necessary to preserve the Czech Republic as we know it. We don't want any African and Islamic migrants here. And I say for the SPD clearly, not the spread of Islam in the Czech Republic. I don't want any mosques here. And that's what Fialův's five-caliber government is doing here. It is unbelievable how you destroy the Czech Republic economically, socially and safely. That statement - and I have to repeat it here again that Prime Minister Fiala from ODS yesterday 25. 7. article on TV CNN Prima - you can look at this website as soon as I said, quote: It says that the EU migration pact is advantageous for the Czech Republic. That's crazy. He's such a sold-out man, it's such a treasonous act. It is absolutely incredible who can premiere the Czech Republic at all. A man who doesn't defend our citizens at all. But it's all about Fialův's government five-calice - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. Of course, that's what we need to be clear about these things and name it clearly. Here I would add - and I already talked about it in the spring, but the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and Prime Minister Fiala do not respond, they remain silent that the number of illegal migrants in our territory only in the first three months of this year, that is before the start of the summer, now the increase is of course another and the increase continues and escalates, so the number of illegal migrants in our territory has increased by 40 percent. And on behalf of the SPD, I make it clear that we support the restoration of permanent controls at our national borders. A Czech citizen, he shows his ID, passport, it could be random checks, I'm not saying there are lines at the border. That's not what the border lines say. We don't want that. But in our opinion, permanent border control must be restored, so that whenever police officers see something suspicious coming, a car or something like that, they will immediately hold him at the border. Not that the border is like a colander, and then somewhere inland, someone is accidentally holding back. Look. Yesterday on the Prague circuit, here at Lochkov in Prague, repeatedly and again and again - four cars full of Syrian illegal migrants. In Prague until. Illegal migrants from Arab countries move freely here. That's the result of Fialův's government policy. That is absolutely appalling, of course. And, of course, about the illegal migrants - I'm not talking about ukrajinec here, I'd like to stress that, because I know some of the government's politicians who are twisting everything and lying like they're printing. I'm talking about the illegals who come to the territory of the Czech Republic because you legalized the Ukrajinec, the economic migrants. And the most frequently discovered migrants in our territory, except Ukrajinec, are also there, so they are mainly citizens of Syria, Turkey and Morocco, so they are mostly Islamic countries again. And we just don't want it here. We do not want such people here in the Czech Republic. Look how it looks in Berlin. In Berlin you normally pass through the neighborhoods of Berlin, in the centre of Berlin and the street line basically... there you go a mile down the road in Krojsberg and so on, and there are already all the inscriptions in Arabic basically and which even the Němec doesn't understand anymore, everywhere just shrouded people. And here I'd just like to remind you of the SPD bill to ban Islamic cover-up in the Czech Republic. And we have a very well-treated law, valid in Austria. We were inspired by Austria, Denmark. This means, of course, the order sisters, the Moravian regions here and so on, everything is treated there in such a way that, of course, it's okay. That's what I'd say for those of the political fools who criticized this last term without reading the proposal. This nonsense, I guess that's what the pirát said right here. They didn't read and comment. It is a law that we have inspired in Denmark, Austria, where it is already true from recent times. And I think it's okay, because to see the person who's staying here in the eyes to make eye contact possible, I think it's just one of the features of European culture here or this culture that we grew up in, and I don't understand why it should be any different. We in Arab countries cannot also go to the streets in swimsuits or have a beer in Saudi Arabia or build a church. So that's how it is, and I don't understand how anyone can promote this imbalance. I just wanted to mention that in connection with the migration. Of course, I will just remind you - and we have also talked about this last and previous parliamentary term, when I mention this in relation to the EU migration pact that you agreed to. We are in favour of banning the promotion of Islam in the Czech Republic. It's very simple. It's just a ban on promoting Islam in the Czech Republic, I'm telling you straight. We don't want any publicity here. At my house, no matter what everyone does, but I don't want any of these things here. That means, I'm telling you straight, think about what you want, I've been saying it all along. I've been saying this all along, and I'm not going to back off, even though it's the politicians of the Purple coalition, people like the politicians of the Purple government coalition, and the people around them who support them, they're saying, "xenofob, racist, it's haunting me." I think you're confusing concepts with impressions. Look at what those words mean first and don't talk nonsense. I stand by my views and will not change them, and it turns out that I am, of course, right looking into Western Europe. We just want security. We want security for Czech citizens. We do not want security and security here, but Vít Rakušan - the Minister of the Interior for the STAN movement does not solve. I've already talked about this here last month, and I've already asked him twice, but he's not really responding. He reacted once, but that was an incredible reaction, of course I'll get to it right away. There is a year-on-year increase in the number of crime including serious crime in the Czech Republic. The reaction was that it was a year-on-year comparison from the time of the covid, with the year he was covid. Well, you gotta be kidding me. The aim of any government is to reduce crime. He's still defending it. Only this moment is for immediate resignation, of course. He's defending the increase in crime, and he's downplaying the increase in crime, and he's downplaying it. I can't believe this. Oh, yeah. He has the full head of Ukraine and Ukrajinec, but of course the Fialův government doesn't give a damn about Czech citizens. And I have nothing personal against the Ukrajinec. Why? But there are rules and laws that need to be followed. Economic migration is economic migration, social tension is social tension, we are the Czech Republic, the opinion of the SPD is that the Czech citizen and the Czech Republic is first in the political position of the SPD, and I am convinced when I look at the latest or those polls of public opinion about the preferences of political parties that a similar proportion of citizens of the Czech Republic think so. So it has nothing to do with your ugly stickers. I'd like to drop by for a short while on the current proposal. I was looking at who is chairing now, if it is not by chance Vice-President of the House for the STAN movement, Mrs Kovářová, who now, as we know, is proposing, on behalf of the Fialův Government Five-calice, a sort of Code of Ethics of the Chamber of Deputies. And since, in short, he suggests that the opposition Members here, we are here two opposition parties, I will talk about us, about the SPD, so that we cannot use words in the House against the government's five-calice: a liar, a cheater, who was still there, now I would have to find it... a liar, a cheater, and so there it was. Yeah, still a bad guy, there's a word. [[With laughter.]] And what should we call it, then, when you said before the election that you wouldn't raise taxes and now you're raising them, and you're flagrantly breaking promises? What should we call criminal cases that resonate with government parties? Whether they're apartments in Brno, buying apartments in Brno or the Dozimeter case? I can't believe this. It's normal... You're already in such a desperate position that I would say a ridiculously desperate situation that you want to censor the views of the opposition and put the word villain among the villains? I can't believe this. [[11.40 hours]] And the word political impostor -- she therefore wrote a fraud in the proposal, but I'll give it to a political con man -- is it wrong to promise anything other than what you're doing before the election? Well, you've got to be kidding me. I can't believe this. So how do we talk about you here? We're probably just here to praise you, okay? It's probably beneficial that we just praise you all the time. This means, of course, that this is unacceptable for us. We have to take a hard stand against this. The situation here is getting even worse. I'll talk about the executions, too. Of course, what you guys have done here with those expressions - I'm gonna find it here in peace, but I'm gonna talk at the same time so no one has to interrupt me - so about the expressions you're saying, so I just want to say that execution... The executions in the Czech Republic have increased, and I have already pointed out here last spring and spring that the Fialův government is leading it so that at the beginning of July it was about 48,600, so almost 50,000 executions, more than last year. A total of approximately 4.4 million execution procedures are conducted. These are data published by the Executive Chamber of the Czech Republic. So the situation is that during your reign, you throw people into such economic problems that the number of executions in the Czech Republic is increasing dramatically. Otherwise, if I say what you think are dirty words that the opposition must not say to you in the House, that is still the word of a coward. Well, what else is Prime Minister Fiala doing here? Let it be a migration pact, let it be a servile attitude towards Brussels, let it be that when we ask him questions repeatedly, he does not answer questions. Let it be that Prime Minister Fiala promised me in the spring in front of witnesses on Prima TV, in the conference room, in the prep room before entering the studio, he promised me in front of the witnesses that he would go live with me. Just Okamura, Fiala, argumentating. Cool would agree with that. I asked her right away because he was performing in front of me, performing alone, without an opponent. Then I went to the studio with some other colleagues from other political parties. When, then, will Prime Minister Fiala keep the promise he made to me? When will he go live with me to the argument fight on Prima? Well, what can I say other than that Prime Minister Fiala is a coward? That should be banned now by the government's five-caliber. [[Applause and laughter from the left side of the hall.]] Or should I say it's a guy in skirts, or how am I supposed to say it? Of course, Czech is a beautiful language, so everything can be copied in other words. So I would like to call again for Prime Minister Fiala to stop being a coward - until you've established the code of ethics proposed by the Vice-President of the House on your behalf, on behalf of the government, Mrs. Kovářová of the STAN movement - and let that coward Prime Minister Fiala come forward with me. I'm not afraid of him, we have our arguments prepared. I want to go live with Prime Minister Fiala so no one doesn't interrupt, I don't cut, I want to go on TV with him. The SPD is not afraid of Prime Minister Fiala's argumentation. He's afraid of Prime Minister Fiala. It's a disaster when we have a coward as Prime Minister, that's just the problem! So I really had to comment on this here. I tell it like a man to a man, and I'm still waiting to keep my promise. There were two witnesses there, the promise. I know both of them, of course. One was from Prime Minister Fiala's side and the other was from our side. So it was a clear public promise, and Prime Minister Fiala is afraid. It doesn't, because he doesn't have arguments, that's the problem. He just doesn't have the argument for your actions, he can't justify it. After all, when I saw the TV debate against the other opposition leader, it was very desperate on the part of Prime Minister Fiala. 'Cause still the excuses that were completely out of order, that was pretty bad from my point of view. But that's his business, how and what he's talking about. Now, of course, let's see what the situation here is. The situation is that you want to rob both current and future pensioners of pensions across the board. This future must also be stressed. In addition, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, wants to present the Act in autumn to increase the retirement age, which is another blow to solar for all decent and working people. Here I would just point out that the retirement age of the 65-year-olds we have now isn't anything unusual in Europe at all. The government's proposals to increase retirement age to 68 years or more are non-standard. You even want to increase your retirement age indefinitely. This means that today's young generation won't even know what they're going to be in. That's why a lot of citizens tell me they're probably not even gonna make it to retirement. Not only from the point of view that you don't want to limit the upper limit of your retirement age, what I've heard about your proposals, but also from that point of view, when we see the financial management of your government, people have a legitimate concern that if the Fialův government continues like this, they won't see it financially anymore, that the state won't even have the money for pensions if the Fialův government continues here. So, of course, that's a big problem. And in all of this today, the situation - when I was looking at the latest results of the OECD survey, the Organization for Economic Cooperation - is having trouble coming out of 55 percent of Czech employees with their income in the Czech Republic. This means that those people on whom the economy stands, those working people who are making contributions, so you are throwing this important group of citizens into poverty, already 55 percent of the citizens. But it doesn't move with you, because it is incredible that 55 percent of the people according to OECD data - which you certainly can't question, even though Prime Minister Fiala is constantly questioning the international statistics, Eurostat was questioning this the other day, simply the statistics of the European Union you love, because it is the EU's European Statistical Office - so there is just 55 percent of the citizens who are working here who are already having trouble coming out of their incomes and now you want to raise their taxes on land. So you are really stomping on the Czech economy and the standard of living in the Czech Republic really into a country without any light at the end of the tunnel. You're missing visions, you're missing direction, it's basically a total government mess. That's what we saw last week, when we were discussing your proposal for the robbing package, which you, in turn, purposefully call a consolidation package - it doesn't consolidate anything, it destroys the Czech economy and the Czech society - so, at first reading, we all learned here that they started arguing with government MPs among themselves and we found out here publicly and it happened, of course, by the media, that you didn't have it arranged at all. You don't even have a match in the government coalition. [[11.50 hours]] So you're putting something on the table, we've been talking about it for days, and then it turns out it's not final at all, it's a mess. In addition, Minister Stanjura will admit that the 50 billion that went into the budget of the Modernization Fund are emission allowances, that it is actually not a sure income at all - and yet you put it there and the Treasury Minister Stanjura will say that he didn't design it and that someone suggested it to the government and that the entire government suggested it. What's that supposed to mean? It's normally illegal fraud, it's a state budget law! This is normally illegal, fraudulent behaviour - but against all citizens of the Czech Republic. You put in the budget and you voted for the budget, we didn't vote for it, 50 billion that won't be there at all. And that's just unbelievable. Only this moment is for immediate resignation, of course. You make this completely, from the Czech state, a ripping calendar, you make citizens normal vassals. But the sad thing is, even with the mainstream media - not all of them - it doesn't move with some of the fans. This is one thing after another, it's terrible. That's awful. So that's what I wanted to mention here. Of course, the long-term problem of the Czech economy here under the Fialův Government is the decline in the real income of citizens, i.e. a permanent decline in the value of wages and salaries, which leads to growing financial difficulties for an increasing number of Czech employees, families and households. Well, I guess we've... I've already discussed here that the Czech Republic has the highest real wage decline in the EU countries by 7.5 percent due to the Fialův Government. That means, not only high inflation, but you're completely depreciating people's money. You've devalued savings, you're devalued wages, you're going to upgrade... record inflation, I've already talked about it, the Czech Republic has about once such high inflation than the EU average, so that's really trivial. By the way, when I was talking about 55 percent of Czech employees having problems with their income, there are other data in this survey that 20 percent of them have significant difficulties. So what does that mean? At high prices we are catching up to the west - some items are, of course, cheaper and often very important items, which I have already talked about - but at the same time, we are far behind in income, of course, in the income of citizens. So we as the SPD have long pointed out that the main cause of this situation is long-standing high inflation, which the Fiala government is not fighting, and it is still with its harmful decisions - that is, a high budget deficit, raising VAT - supports. You're just doing no anti-inflationary measures, you're doing upside-down measures. The increase in VAT to essential needs is clearly an inflationary measure. So I don't even... I understand now, because Prime Minister Fiala doesn't know what hits at all. But how can he argue that the government is doing something about inflation when the numbers are a) completely different, I have repeated that here for sure, and secondly, everyone knows that raising the VAT rate is primarily an inflationary measure. Everyone knows that. But whoever doesn't know this is Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, both of the ODS. This really is an incredible thing. Let's move on. I would really like to ask you, as a government, to really stop suggesting to people here that retirement is some kind of state gift from you, because you... it's really, I would say, very insulting to pensioners in the Czech Republic, because people have honestly paid their dues and, of course, they have a legitimate, legitimate expectation that if they honestly pay the state their contributions for decades by law, that is to be emphasized, so after they are entitled to a well-earned rest, they will receive the pensions they count on. Well, Fialův's government has a different way of communicating here. It creates an atmosphere that a pension is perhaps a gift from a state with which the Fialův government can manipulate here. And it is this evil statement about pensioners that then leads to an atmosphere in society where you make pensions some kind of toy for politicians, that pensioners are perhaps extra, some kind of burden - you create an atmosphere, your government - because pensioners simply cannot defend your government and political reasons and are an easy target of antisocial politicians without scruples, which is the Fialův Government. It is simply the cynicism of the rudest grain that the society divides and can then provoke envy or hatred of pensioners, as those who - depending on how the Fialův government creates the atmosphere - may be responsible for the poor economic and budgetary situation. And you're making the wrong and wrong impression that maybe we're here to involuntaryly sponsor someone or something like this, that makes a complete impression. We must strongly reject that. This false and evil concept of yours, with all determination, rejects the SPD. In the SPD, we're clear - retired people don't owe us anything. On the contrary, we owe them. And I call on the Fialův government to stop thinking about how to rob current or future pensioners. And let's work on how to change our pension system, and at the same time, the economy of the state, and strengthen its income and restore its role as a guarantee of social security for helpless and old people. So, of course, I will repeat once again that the SPD will not support government proposals to effectively rob current and future pensioners. And now, of course, what we're hearing here again for other ideas from the co-workers of the Fialův Five-caliber government. Now I've heard President Petr Pavel here, who's promoting electronic elections. So first you're the correspondence choices and now you're the electronic choices. You really don't know, you and your colleagues who support each other, you don't know how to manipulate elections anymore. You no longer know how to threaten democracy because your preferences are falling. So, aside from whether I have the correct information that electronic elections work, I suspect, only in one European country - now I don't have it in my notes, it's one of those three small Baltic countries, now I don't know if it's Estonia, I suspect it's Estonia - and in other countries, it's precisely because of the possibility of electoral fraud and the technical complexity, how to ensure basically the proper functioning of that electronic election, and of course it's necessary for this proposal that you're promoting here, I have to stop there, because, of course, President Petr Pavel is a candidate supported by the Fialův government five-police, you officially supported it and fully cooperate with each other, and that fits exactly with your mosaic, that the Purple's five-calice pushes for correspondence elections. That's what we're trying to prevent and defend as opposition here, because instead of working for citizens, you want to create room for manipulation - and I'll get to the justification, of course, but I've already justified it many times for the media - and because now you see that the correspondence elections are stuck here in the House so far, you're already coming up with the topic of electronic elections. As correspondence, electronic elections are a major threat to democracy and the SPD movement, President Pavel's extremely dangerous and undemocratic ideas are certainly rejecting - and these ideas of the Fialův's five-calice government. [[So?]] [[12.00 hours]] President Petr Pavel spoke about this last Friday at a meeting with citizens in Ostrava, and he sees the advantage of electronic voting, among other things, in making the situation easier for voters abroad and imagining that this would be the way to vote in all types of elections and that people would have to be able to vote from home. Yeah, but that's where the constitutional principle of the election comes in. Because the electronic and correspondence form of vote violates the fundamental principles of electoral law and constitutional principles of elections in the Czech Republic, because voting in elections must and I quote: Under all circumstances, take place in person, freely and secretly, without pressure and without control from other parties. I'll stop here. So logically, this cannot be ensured in this election. You can't secure the personal choice, the independent choice. Because no one, of course, is able to ensure that the person abroad or somewhere, whether he actually voted personally and without the influence of others. Among other things, this moment is no longer possible to secure. That is why it is happening in the Czech Republic, under the supervision of the precinct electoral committees, where representatives of all the candidates and therefore control each other in the counting of votes, this is how it is now happening. So there'd be some kind of control. Of course, this is not possible for correspondence choices and not for electronic ones at all. Of course, the danger of that electronic choice is that one click can completely manipulate the choices. Or it could be because of some technical error. Which I'm saying on purpose here, because I think I'm gonna refresh the memory of some of you. Remember the recent census of citizens in the Czech Republic. This is in charge of the Czech Statistical Office. And remember, I guess, now don't hold my breath, two years ago it's a census? And on the first day, the software of the Czech Statistical Office fell out. First day. It was a problem, it was the headlines in all the media. So, unfortunately, even such a thing as a census, the Czech static office failed 100%. And now you would like to do a more serious thing from my point of view, because, of course, the elections will have a political impact, the elections to the House and the future of the Czech Republic will have a political impact on Parliament for at least four years. You would like to apply the electronic options or exponents of the connection to the Fialův Government Five-calice. Well, that must be strongly rejected. This must, of course, be rejected by these ideas, which, in my opinion, are a direct attack on democracy in the Czech Republic and on constitutional order in the Czech Republic. So that is what I wanted to mention here, too, because in my opinion, the President should defend the Czech Constitution and we should all defend the constitutionally guaranteed political rights of citizens here, and we should clearly oppose efforts to limit and influence free political competition. So I'm definitely saying that for myself here. For us, then, what I said here from the beginning is that, of course, we fundamentally disagree with the fact that you want to rob pensioners, all working citizens in the Czech Republic, basically all citizens, including children, by preparing tax increases, that you are simply going to make adjustments to those pensions contrary to legitimate expectations. It's about, by the way, I'm talking about early retirement, too, because there was a clear expectation of the conditions under which citizens could retire early. Now you're changing it as you march quite quickly. So this is the SPD's position, and we will, of course, vote against these proposals of yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-26-ps2021-071-07-000-000.u33	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking over the meeting when all the priority rights are exhausted before opening the point. That's why I'm now opening point number
