ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-004-098.u1	98. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Third reading We have interrupted the discussion of this point today because of the fixed points for 12.10 hours. The debate has been interrupted. I recall that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 263/3, which was delivered on 17 January 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 263/4. I ask that the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue with the interrupted debate in which these Members have joined: I am the first here with the priority right of President Okamura. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'm going to ask my colleagues to remain calm in the hall so that there is a decent environment to perform. Thank you very much and please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-004-098.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the government amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio has one goal: the government coalition Petr Fiala wants to politically dominate public media and exploit the licence fees of all citizens in its political favor. This is the emergence of a new totalitarianism by the Fialův Government. The government wants to strengthen the Senate's role as a bonus to the principle of the election of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio, which the vast majority of our country's citizens consider unnecessary, therefore only a few thousand votes are elected for the citizens' disinterest. I have my personal experience with this, of course, because I was elected senator and I won first and second rounds, so I know what I'm talking about. What aroused Fialův's government coalition to change the law on the election of councillors of Czech Television and Czech Radio? The situation around the Czech Television Council escalated last spring, when MPs in a secret election elected allegedly controversial candidates who were only controversial because they did not have opinions like the current government five-calice. These new councillors have begun to control the economics of Czech television and its balance, which is unliked by the parties of the Fialův Government and their connected activists. To understand each other, the Czech Television Act clearly states that the Czech Television Council is to be represented, and I quote, "significant regional, political, social and cultural currents." End of the legal quote. In order to be objective, the Czech Television needs to do its utmost to ensure that its supervisory body represents not one but really the main currents of opinion. At this point, Czech Television is, from the point of view of many concessionaires, the only one for Brussels ideology, so we should try not to strengthen the unilaterality of television, but to weaken and democratize television so that an opinion balance is ensured in accordance with the law. In the Czech Republic we have a model where Czech Television and Czech Radio are actually not subject to anybody and any public control and bear no enforceable responsibility in practice for the flagrant and visible violations of the Czech Television Act or the Act on the operation of television and radio broadcasting. Moreover, under the current conditions, the Czech Television Council does not have an effective control of options. The problem is, among other things, that the current Council of Czech Television has no analytical department, it does not have enough money or enough people to effectively control all the problems in implementing the Czech Television Act. I understand that it suits you in Petr Fiala's ODS government, but the suppression of opposing views, the demosing of political opponents, their media liquidation is a clear sign of totalitarianism. By extending the choice of councillors in the House, which is already under the control of the government majority, by extending the Senate, which also controls the majority of the government, there will be no expansion of the Councillors' opinional diversity as required by the law and principles on which public media stands, on the contrary, strengthening the monocolor and bulletproofness of the system, which protects the very clear imbalance and unilateralness of some of the Czech Television and Czech Radio programmes. Opponents for Brussels ideologies often do not stand a chance of free factual debate, which does not take place. The media fight takes place in the form of defensive and media executions. Unfortunately, our public media, or to be completely correct, are often at the forefront of the sub-band dehonest of the opponents. Also, as we have seen on the basis of the last decision of the council, for example, the moderation of the presidential debate, the head of the defensive, the media executions and the sub-tracking of the opponents, are also specific moderators of Czech Television. Of course, I am not naive enough to think that rejecting this amendment and maintaining the existing system will change anything. All of us who have been here longer know how members of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Council are actually voting here in the House. Despite being apolitical, they are elected by the agreement of the government parties. That would then be cleaner and more transparent so that the parties do not plant secret agents in their quotation marks and propose directly to their candidate, as is the case with the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council - RRTV. This would really and transparently bring to the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio representatives of the main currents in our Republic, as the law essentially demands, and citizens, i.e. dealers, would clearly see who is who and who is who is who. [[13.40 hours]] Of course, I consider the fact that no one currently has the opportunity to effectively enforce the objectivity and balance of Czech television to be absolutely fundamental and more fundamental than individual board members. This does not exist, and so do many analyses, including some analyses by the Radio and Television Council. Last year, when the current Czech Television Council demanded the Czech Television's leadership to review the number of invitations to Tomio Okamura to the Václav Moravec series, where I have not been invited for nine years, the Czech Television refused to provide this information to the Council because it would be confirmed that I was not invited to the Václav Moravec series, because Czech Television is trying to censor my views. Yes, you can hear me well. I have not been invited to the questions of Václav Moravec for nine years - I have not refused once because I have not been invited once every nine years, and this still pays at least 10 percent when I apply it to the election to the House, at least 10 percent of the concessionaries, those who pay for the Václav Moravec and the moderator Václav Moravec. are voters of the SPD, so it is nothing else on the part of the Czech Television's leadership and nothing on the part of Václav Moravec but the abuse of the licence fees of the SPD's voters. It is my opinion on the promotion of opinions, the abuse of the licence fees of SPD voters on the promotion of the views of the presidents of other political parties, which the ČT leadership prefers. That's something that needs to change. And I'm really going to do it again, for the third time - in the moment that I haven't been invited to the Václav Moravka questions for nine years, so that the SPD leadership, Chairman of the SPD, doesn't sound like... I know it leaves everyone here in peace, but it can turn around one day, and then it can happen to everyone, of course. And I think about that, I don't want to talk about this particular case anymore, but I think everyone should raise their eyebrows or even their finger, because it's definitely not democratic, even in accordance with the law. It's just a fact, and I'm saying it here not because of the SPD, but because of all political subjects and because of the confidence in the objectivity of Czech television - 58 percent of citizens do not believe Czech television, yet they have to pay for it. This results from a survey of citizens' confidence in the institution carried out by STEM. This survey further shows that only 9 percent of citizens believe in Czech television. Of course, Czech television falls into the gesture here, this law, Mr. Minister of Culture, Mr.Baxa of ODS, so I would expect the Minister to say that - I know that you are here next to me - but I would expect, not that you are here, we expect, but I would expect that the imbalance of Czech television, that I have not been invited there for nine years, that you will also make a public statement about it, and that, even if the Council of Czech Television requested, as you know, a written request for an invitation to the Czech Television leadership, because it would be clear that I have not been invited for nine years, that my views are censored as public funds, I would expect you to stand up for it in some way, that you will simply define yourself against it, because it may also happen to ODS in the future, it may also happen to other parties. And I don't really think it's normal for someone to be censored for nine years, but for public funds, even for SPD dealers' money. And here, although he is my political competitor, I am not surprised by the chairman of the YES movement, Andrej Babiš, that he did not go on the show, because such an unbalanced programme, it is such a flaming abuse of licence fees, otázka by Václav Moravec, that it is not possible at all. And how can the Minister actually do it, and now I mean it not so personally, but I think it really can happen to all of us. It's not normal! I haven't been invited to the show for nine years -- he hasn't been invited, I haven't even refused. We repeatedly call, we tried to draw attention to it, you know, but I wasn't invited to question Václav Moravec for nine years, because Václav Moravec clearly doesn't like me! But it's not his private show, is it? We're handling it, we're fighting without it for our program, so I'm stating the facts here, I'm not crying here, we're just fighting, but we're, we're talking about the public media, we're talking about the licence fees, and one of the things that's stated in the law is the word balance. And sometimes inviting Radim Fiala, Vice-President of the ODS, or sometimes someone else, doesn't balance that with the media impact and balance, it doesn't balance...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-004-098.u3	Mr President, it is exactly 13.45, so I will allow myself to interrupt you. [[I'll go on then, okay?]] Thank you. I'm interrupting this point because we have fixed points, and that's the choice. I'm just saying, right after we vote, I'm going to interrupt the meeting. There will be a break within 15 hours and then, of course, we will continue. So at this point, let me open a point number.
