ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12 o'clock, we will continue. Before we begin this 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that, at 13 o'clock, we would continue the suspended 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the resolution of the Organising Committee. This means that today at 12.53 we will have to interrupt the 62nd meeting and return to meeting 54. I am now opening the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will check you all out first, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 53rd meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 43 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Saturday 4 March this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej Kolář as the verifier. Does anyone else have a suggestion? That is not the case, so I will put it to a vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number one, 115 Members were enrolled, 112 voted in favour, no one opposed. And I am of the opinion that we are the verifiers of the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, appointed by Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej kolář. As far as apologies are concerned, I also refer to the 53rd meeting. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 62nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed, nor shall the approved programme be extended. As far as priority rights are concerned, I am entitled to the agenda with priority rights as the first President Jakob - he withdraws his priority right. After that, Mr Babiš is registered with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u2	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable citizens, ladies and gentlemen. I am here to appeal to allow this law to be negotiated, especially at this time when the current government is leaving inflation - and today we have a fresh number - on record 17 percent, less than 17, last month over 17 percent, and it leaves absolutely free and public finances have a deficit, even if they collect hundreds of billions into public budgets of additional taxes. In February there was a deficit of 120 billion, it is the worst February result in the history of the independent Czech Republic, and it is a topic very topical. The Fialův Government, after the presidential election, as we suspected, has been fully pursuing its antisocial policy, which it planned from the very beginning, even though it promised voters something completely different. And I waited for the President to give that speech yesterday, but it was the same speech as before the elections, so hopefully on March 15th - and for that certainly a great deal of thanks - he will hear our representatives and hear our arguments about why it is unconstitutional and why it is retrospective and why it is unfair and why it is antisocial and why it is scandalous. There are so many things the government didn't want to talk about before the presidential election, and now it wants to deprive our pensioners of CZK 1,000 each month in retirement. As an ordinary Member on the occasion of this speech, I finally took over the payroll, and I am not a member of any committees, so I have no additional income like the others, so I have calculated it. So the government doesn't want to give the elderly CZK 7,000, and I'm going to have an increase of 96,000 in seven months, which, of course, I'm sending to singles, and I consider it scandalous. So, of course, this government lied about everything that it wouldn't increase the retirement age, businessmen wanted to raise contributions by 60 percent, changing the government's programming statement, which it never even evaluated. We have evaluated it and I have a new programming statement where I have recorded changes which are of course for worse and which are completely different from the pre-election vows, but there is no room to talk about that today. It's a problem, but the solution was simple, it was a ceiling on electricity prices for producers, and this government is clearly a government of electricity producers, who charge hundreds of billions of all, and instead of putting it down, it just lets it go, because it's probably run by someone from behind, those who have the benefits. This government is doing the exact opposite of what it promised in the election. He saves on people, raises taxes, and I'm curious about the gambling. That was always very interesting when I was the finance minister, how things were going here, so it would definitely be the next step in favour of some business groups. So she's doing the opposite of what she promised. They're saving on people, they're in record debt to the country, and they've basically released the lie now as an update in the government's programming statement, which hasn't been evaluated once in 430 days. Of course, voters perceive it, but that is, of course, a different subject. I would go back to the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials. Since January 2023, constitutional officials have increased salaries by 12.7 percent, which means that ordinary Members and Senators with no office receive CZK 11,600 a month more than they have so far, that is the basis. I figured it out at 13 684, and I basically don't have the other income like the others, so that base is going to be CZK 102,400 gross. But only a minority receives a basic salary, and most have a function. Someone is chairman of the Commission, somebody is vice-chairman of the subcommittee, somebody is chairman of the committee and so on, and, of course, functions mean extras. That's why the functions and their cumulation are so popular. [[12.10 hours]] The salary is to be added to the multipurpose flat-rate compensation for meals, transport and representation in the range of CZK 53,200 to CZK 72,100. There's a lot more than that, and most of it goes right into politicians' pockets. For example, a Member with a basic salary automatically receives 16 percent of the salary base, i.e. at least an additional CZK 16 384 per month. By the way, due to compensation for transport, many Members report their permanent residence in another region on paper, even though they have apartments in Prague that they live in just to receive higher compensations. I'm not gonna be here remembering the former founder of ODS B who could tell the story. Then Members have other advantages as money for an assistant, that is 50 500 crowns per month, for professional and administrative work 25 600 crowns per month, for rent of office up to 27 000 crowns per month, allowance for office equipment up to 5 200 crowns per month, telephone and internet up to 5 000 crowns per month, for rent of apartment up to 20 500 crowns per month, and of course they rent offices even fictitiously, and I could continue here. Last year, for example, the NGO Kverulant calculated that each Member had spent almost CZK 900 000 on average on the parliamentary compensations for the first eight months since its election. In total, all Members spent CZK 175 million on compensation in eight months from the first meeting of the House on 8 November 2021 until 30 June 2022. The biggest item was transport costs. These also vary according to the distance of residence, amounted to CZK 62 million, the cost of offices, assistants and telephones then a total of CZK 43 million. On average, each current Member has spent CZK 865 000 on Parliament's compensations for the first eight months, a monthly sum of 108 241 net - on average per Member. It is clear that even the most ordinary Member today costs taxpayers CZK 155,000 a month, but, on average, due to the functions of reality, more than CZK 200,000 a month. The most expensive politicians like Mr. Vystrčil or Mrs. Pekarová, who likes to tell us that it's unhealthy to raise their salaries, take a basic salary of CZK 274,800 a month, which means 31,000 more than they took, plus compensation. And we can still compare that to those old people who own 7,000. So I hope my fellow citizens listen well. Even if it doesn't have such big refunds, the taxpayers, of course, and I understand that the Prime Minister has a salary of 310 000 a month, ministers have 195 300 plus refunds, so they're all happy. But it is a pity that they do not want to give money to pensioners, and of course we can also talk about employees' salaries, such as firefighters, police officers and so on, teachers. Now they've actually taken the assistants - under primary education, 40,000 employees won't get the promised increase to 130 percent. The President of the Constitutional Court, which is also part of the new totalitarianism, receives up to CZK 329 800 due to the freezing of salaries. The overview was published and there is, of course, a detailed table of what the state pays the legislators. It's very well done because it's hard to count, but there's representation expenses. Expenditure on transport by own vehicle or by means of a means of hire from the place of permanent residence to the place of registered office of the institution in which it performs its duties and vice versa, at the place of its registered office and on journeys connected with the performance of its duties. Expenditure on transport by public mass means of transport, with the exception of air transport on domestic journeys associated with the performance of the function. Air transport expenditure on domestic trips. Travel expenses for foreign travel. Boarding expenses on domestic trips. Food expenses and some other expenditure on foreign travel. Accommodation expenses for domestic travel. Accommodation expenses for foreign travel. Expenditure on temporary accommodation at the place of office of the institution in which it performs its duties. Expenditure on professional and administrative work, expenditure on the activities of a guide or a personal assistant. Expenditure on professional literature. It's unbelievable what everything here is! In addition to salary and financial compensation, we must not forget the benefits of service cars for officials, phones and computers, expert and two-and-a-half times higher foreign diets than ordinary employees receive. It's also a mystery why there's a difference. Exactly these other benefits are following: Use of a service vehicle with or without a driver to perform a function or in connection with it and at personal disposal. Use of a service vehicle with or without the driver to perform the duties or in connection with the service vehicle and to allow contact with the family. Use of a service vehicle without a driver to perform or relate to the function and to enable contact with the family. Unbelievable! Use of an adequately equipped apartment. Use at the place of residence of the institution if it does not have permanent residence in that place. The use of one adequately equipped office in its constituency or in its constituency established by agreement by a Member. Payment of health services. Priority setting up of a local telephone station. Establishment and use of one local telephone station. Establishment and use of two participating telephone stations. It is still worth recalling that, in addition to teachers, Members and Senators are also the only ones who have two months of vacation in the summer, and unlike the members of the government, Members and Senators are not covered by the conflict of interest law, so they can continue to do business in peace and, in the House or Senate, vote on their subject of business, except, of course, only one Member, and you probably know who they are. One can't, all can, turn into wives and so on. It's just obvious that the salaries and replacements of constitutional officials have gone off the rails. Even managers don't take that kind of salary slowly. Nowadays, such valorized salaries are simply indefensible! When I was in the government, it was clear to us, which is why in 2021 I came up with an amendment to freeze from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2026 a salary base from which everything depends and which is identical to the basic salary of the Member, at CZK 84,060. The savings for the state were exactly 727 million in five years. Well, that's a lot of money, of course, and the government says they're looking for savings or politicians, but they're not looking for each other. When I passed the law before the elections in 2021, most of the Members voted for it because the five-wheelers controlled the Senate and agreed with the senators that they would reject the law, as if on their own, which, of course, fell under the table after the election. So the MPs pretended to be in favour, of course it wasn't true, and the Senate dropped it, because of course we know that now the Senate is part of a new totalitarianism. Therefore, I re-submitted the law after the provisions of the new House on 24 November 2021, so that the House could agree with it at first reading and it would have been valid since 2022. But since the primary concern of five-calice politicians is their salaries, it was nothing. Only after pressure from the ANO movement did the government reluctantly and lately freeze the salaries of politicians for 2022, but this year, of course, she was already afraid of her own Members, so the salaries were rather thawed. At a time when the government says it is necessary to save money, politicians should set an example and start saving money first. Especially when some people are publicly saying that the government isn't really for people here, and they're all supposed to be saving. [[12.20 hours]] So I think it's immoral that, at a time when, basically, all people are downgraded, one narrow group's salaries are growing rapidly, yes, the group I'm talking about, and it's a terrible shame. In such a case, solidarity talks can really be kept by these politicians. Solidarity must apply to all, and not just to the so-called bottom ten million. Our government froze the salaries of politicians during the coronavirus crisis. When five-wheelers say the economy is not in good shape today, but that's mainly because of you, to tighten the legal increase in pensions, well, it's not in good shape to tighten jumping pay for politicians. But it's not absolute numbers, it's symbolism. You would expect Prime Minister Fiala and other ministers and Mrs Pekarová to be so concerned about public budgets to come up with such a proposal. But they would have to have a primary interest in something other than their own interests. Nor will it stand the lamentations of government MPs that you had to raise politicians' salaries, because that is the law, and that you could not do anything about it. When it comes to pensioners, five-calice violations do not matter at all and are willing to enforce change in a completely unconstitutional way. You guys could've connected it together. When you take the elderly, you should have taken yourself. Strange that you do not show a similar desire to save money on the inflation clause of overpriced church restitutions, which have been very strangely approved here. That's where it's going to cost an 8 billion next year. Unbelievable! Here you can see the priorities, and there are no excuses to say that politicians' salaries had to grow because they are tied to judges' salaries. Turns out it was a bad decision. We have always wanted to separate it so that both the judiciary and the prosecutor's salaries grow, but politicians who have huge incomes, MEPs and so on, should set an example. Well, of course, government politicians don't want that, because they're making excuses for having to grow and pay the judges, I agree with that, but it could be separated, but it's not the will. I understand why government politicians avoid a wide-ranging debate about their salaries because of course they do not want to save money. This debate, in turn, has made it clear that the only interests that five-calice defend are only and only its own, or, of course, we can see how many advisors and unsuccessful candidates for the House who advise on ministries and lobbyist groups linked to government policies. Very interesting is the position of the government, which is disagreeable, so the government says: No, we do not agree that Members should set an example and freeze their high salaries, and the government is of the opinion that "the proposed freeze of civil servants' salaries for five years is too long and very likely to be inadequate in the current economic situation and state of the state budget after some time. If the proposal had been adopted, after the end of five years, the salary base would have been at the level of state authorities at 2020 and, on the contrary, an extreme leap increase in the salary base for representatives with all budgetary and political consequences resulting from this would have been observed, or a legislative solution for gradual easing would have to be complexly sought over five years of the increase in the salary base. The government will therefore prepare and submit its own legislative proposal in the near future with a different solution to regulating the increase in salaries of state officials." Well, that's really very funny. And why would it grow jumpingly? Why? Most politicians actually eat for the state. State, yeah, so what inflation? Of course, I've always been criticized for not walking around here, so it would be good for my fellow citizens to hear how much we eat here. Potato soup with pepper 12 kroner. I told CNN Prima yesterday that I had 15 crowns of spinach and 16 crowns of lentils and sausage. No wonder someone's hiding the prizes. Why doesn't President Pekarová show the citizens how much it costs here? Isn't that a shame? [[He's laughing.]] This is really outrageous when an article came out on iRozlas with the headline of First Class at Náchod School passed out starving while teaching, now he has free lunches. In the Czech Republic, parents who are unable to pay their children school lunches, esteemed colleagues and politicians, everywhere in the Czech Republic, have come from the data of nonprofit organization Women for women. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports children from socially weak families, lunch pays. In the current school year, more than 14,000 children are helped by the organization, and soon there will be more. "Some kids aren't used to eating, they don't even eat, explains the head of the school cafeteria. The last time the school management arranged a free lunch was for the boys in first class. That the first-year boy had a problem, his class teacher recognized her when she passed out a few times while studying from hunger." First-year kid passed out because he didn't have enough to eat. Unbelievable. What is this, this? So when we gave him his first lunch, he was happy to eat. Well, that's like Africa here, like Africa. And I know that because I'm also being written by those seniors in the Highlands, where they went to the hospital and paid 65 crowns for food, and now they're paying 130. And here, in this place, with us, we have a 109 fried cheese, lentils with a hot dog of 15 crowns, beef broth with liver rice 25, chopped fried steak 105, pork shoulder on mushrooms 77. I don't know, I'd love to see the management. Well, that's a scandal! I know you're all gonna hate me here, but I don't care. I say, if this is where hundreds of thousands of salaries and refunds are taken and I don't know what else, and of course, what about the government? Well, it's always been free. Lunches, Sobotka always made lunch. We, when we were in a minority of 208 days, were the government at 6 a.m., yes, colleague Bělobrádek remembers it, there was always a joint lunch, I did the government at 6 a.m., so lunch wasn't. Then we took pity on the minority government with the ČSSD and it was eight o'clock. Yes, we had food there, but I can assure you that I've always paid for food and everything, okay? But I'm going back to the House again. So unless - I don't know if you're shy - fried pork schnitzel, chives potatoes 95 kroner, and the soup and so on. And as far as I know - I don't know, I've refused it in the past - the government had everything for free. And now that some kids have nothing to eat and singles, I don't know, I'd like to ask Mrs. Pekarová to take a look at it. I don't get it, I had the spinach for 15 crowns, and I had an egg. How much is an egg, 7 crowns? How can they do that for 15 crowns? Isn't that losing? All I'm saying is that we're at a time when a lot of people have huge problems so they have money at all so their kids can buy lunch at school. And here we are, here's the suggestion that wages are going up - yes, they have, and yet the prices here are disgraceful. I don't understand why he's here, and what right do we have here cheaper food? I don't know what right it is, 'cause it's no shame on the salary? Fried pork schnitzel for 112? Okay, so it would be good, I'd like to ask the President of the House to attend to it. [[12.30 hours]] And then again - and again, it's a shame that the House and the five-wheelers have enforced a salary increase at a time when we don't want to give the pensioners a ridiculous CZK 1,000 a month. Yeah, it's making a big deal out of it. And I hope, therefore, that Mr President, although I am not yet able to understand what he is going to decide, but he has a historic chance. Yesterday, the speech wasn't connected, so it can connect now, as we've always talked about it. And of course, we here, politicians have raised our salaries, soup for 15 or 12, and the average wage last year reached CZK 40 353, but, given real wage inflation, it fell by 7.5 percent. So this is the situation. And that's why I'm appealing again to you to definitely freeze those salaries, to set an example, to look at it and publish what the food prices here are. It's really unbelievable. And I'm the finance minister, they actually warned me once that there wasn't even VAT. Who's subsidizing all this here? And I'm hoping the VAT is on here. And I repeat, if there are such prizes, it's a huge shame for me. We've raised our salaries, the old folks don't want to give money to the old folks. And here these articles that are coming out, it's really incredible for me, and I'm asking the House again, and I'm asking the President again to deal with these things. This is where we posted to people how much we're eating on hundreds of thousands of wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u3	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be next with priority, followed by President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u4	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, the President has said most things. I would merely sum up the fact that I have tried to put this item on the agenda several times, never succeeded. You can see for yourself that, at the moment, when a politician's salary freeze is being discussed here, a number of Members are not at all at my right hand, and they are practically not interested in this point. I would like to say that the House Press - the government was already dealing with it at the end of 2021, when it gave a disagreeable opinion on it. The President has already announced this, where one of the reasons he said he would not support him, that it is too long and very likely after some time it could be inadequate to the current economic situation and state of the state budget. At the same time, they announced that they would prepare their legislative proposal, and so when they dealt with this House's dissenting press at the end of 2021, I would like to remind you that it is March 2023, so I think they could have submitted something from their side long ago. It hasn't happened yet. I must say that when we had here last week - and discussed - the draft pension insurance law tabled by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, who wants to reach out to seniors who - for example, the senior, who is currently receiving a pension of about 20,000, should increase to CZK 21,700 under the law. According to the proposal of Minister Jurečka, this pension will only increase to 20 768. I was also setting an example here. It is clear that Mr Marian Jurečka did not react at that time, because at that time I considered Minister Jurečka to be a minister, but he is also Vice-President of the Government, which means that at that moment he has, in 2023, his salary and remuneration for the performance of his duties increased by approximately 27,000. It's only if you want to compare it to the senior. This means that his reward currently amounts to CZK 236,000 without compensation. At that meeting, we heard the word solidarity many times, we heard that word yesterday and from the new President. Yes? And I'm repeating it here again a few times. If we want something from someone, we should start apart. You know that I have called you to do this even at the meeting, that I will really be very curious about how the government and the government will stand up to this extraordinary meeting and whether they will approve the proposal for this programme. Of course, it is already announced here - I hope that Mr Okamura will not speak too long, because I would very much like us to get to the vote and really see - because it has suddenly appeared deliberately that this meeting will end at 13:00 and the most important law for citizens of this country will be discussed, and this is the Czech Television Act where the government coalition still needs to increase the number of council members from fifteen to eighteen. I call on all of you, and please approve the agenda for this meeting, let's talk about it and let's deal with it immediately. It is very unfair to the citizens of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u5	The President of Okamura will now speak with priority rights, and after that the right of President of the Fiala will be preferred. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here an opposition meeting that we want to promote the freezing of politicians' salaries. The SPD movement has proposed freezing the salaries of politicians, judges and prosecutors many times, and many times the other parties have thrown it off the table. I'm starting to think of this as a parliamentary tradition. We proposed halting the valorisation of politicians' salaries in 2018, no party supported it and then went through the proposal of the ANO movement and the Pirates to increase the salaries of politicians by 10 percent. The SPD movement voted only against. Then we proposed the freeze of politicians' salaries in August 2020 and finally in December 2021. My proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term was last voted last year, and the Fialův coalition rejected it at the time, so unfortunately, the SPD here is always in vain without the support of the rest of Parliament. To illustrate, I will make some comments that I have discovered about our suggestions in the media. Chairman STAN Petr Gazdík, then president and politician of STAN, called us the orgy of populism not to be praised by politicians. President of the KDU-ČSL at that time, Pavel Bělobrádek, again in reference to the fact that I was in the past Vice-President of the House, said, I quote: "Maybe it could only be frozen by the House's leadership. " End of quote. The system of automatic valorisation, the determination of the salaries of politicians by law, has always been defended by most Members of the other parties. They reminded us that it was an automatic machine so that politicians would not interfere with their salaries. The current proposals violate this rule according to them. I quote what the head of the TOP 09 assembly club Miroslav Kalousek said earlier: "Just the populism is absolutely irresistible." End of quote of the TOP 09 representative Miroslav Kalousek. [[12.40 hours]] The year he met with the year and we have a complete parallel to the Act on the salaries of politicians, judges and prosecutors. We have a law here that states that pensions are being paid, and Fialův's five-coals have been saying that it will rob about 3 million beneficiaries of old-age, disability, widows and orphans' pensions of valorisation, and yet it is basically the same standard that determines the salaries of Members. And we say that the government's argument is completely false and hypocritical, and it is completely opposite according to who it concerns. So you robbed an old man of valorization, but you've been raising your own salaries, and as we know, since 1. The first of this year, politicians' salaries have increased precisely on the basis of the fact that Fialův's five-police government pushed through, and the SPD has once again voted against the rise in the salaries of politicians, but you have outvoted us. It is necessary to freeze pensions, according to government Members, because the government is supposed to be saving money, and the pensioners are said to be in solidarity with other citizens. So, according to the Fialův Government, a 10,000-month pensioner must be in solidarity with politicians, judges and prosecutors who have hundreds of thousands of salaries. I don't think anybody's gonna think of anything more stupid. If the functioning of the state depends on the work of politicians, then it is quite clear that their salary should also depend on how the state works, how the citizens thrive. If politicians' salary is simply rising because inflation is, precisely because the Fialův government is doing very badly, it is absurd. The fact that government politicians raise their salaries by tens of thousands while at the same time robbing pensioners of the hundreds of crowns they own by law is rude and unsustainable. In this context, I am pleased that the YES movement, or the President of Babiš, has also awakened this time, which, as I said in the past, voted in favour of increasing the salaries of politicians by 10 percent. Now we are both in opposition and it can be successfully hoped that the proposal for freezing will unfortunately not pass again. Too bad. If Andrej Babiš agreed to our proposal at the time when he had the majority in the House, the proposal would pass. Today, because of the Fialův Government, a motion to freeze politicians' salaries will not pass, because the Fialův's five-calice government, which now has a majority in the House, has thrown the citizens overboard and only thinks of its own trough. I wanted to call on you once again to approve the agenda for this opposition meeting, because there is a need to freeze the salaries of politicians, and there is also a need to valorise pensions for all pension recipients, and not just those. The SPD movement also supports increased support, we also want increased support for working people, families with children, single parents and other necessary groups of citizens. And here I would like to make a note of what the Interior Minister and Chairman STAN Vít Rakušan are doing here, because, as we know, they even propose an increase in the salaries of Members. Even now, even now, it proposes an increase in the salaries of Members who accumulate functions. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, and he is Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Petr Fiala, suggests that Members who are also mayors - and their STAN movement, Mayors and Independents, are concerned with STAN politicians and government politicians mostly - want to increase salaries for those who accumulate functions, and that is absolutely unacceptable for us. We are against it and I must say that it is an incredibly incredibly, incredibly rude proposal from the representatives of the Purple Government Five-calice, that, after they have muddled up the valorisation of all pension recipients, they still want to increase their salaries, even though they are now from 1. 1. increased. So, of course, we disagree with this, and I wanted to ask you again to approve the agenda for this opposition meeting to freeze the salaries of politicians. Here I would like to remind you once again that my proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians has already been voted on last year. You denied it to me, but there's still my bill that I filed after the elections last November, and I filed it under Section 90 to discuss it immediately, which means, in one day, if the government coalition wanted, it could be frozen by politicians' salaries. But you don't want it, you're always blocking my proposal, the SPD proposal. That means we see exactly what the government's five-caliber approach is. I would just like to remind you that in the year and quarter that you've ruled here, almost a year and a half, you've voted for the abolition of specialized deputy ministers and the introduction of an unlimited number of political representatives, that is to say, your party government exponents, members of the Purple Government Five-calice, that is, Pirates, ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL, so you can have as many political traders as possible. You've increased the number of ministers, the secretariats, you've even voted here from 1 now on. 1. the establishment of a new state office for more than a billion crowns, where there should be more than 200 employees, especially for the exponents of the Pirates. For me, it's just unacceptable that you're sucking yourself in full sips, adding money, adding hundreds of thousands a month to your people, but you don't want to freeze your own politicians' salaries, and you're taking the elderly. I would also like to call on President Petr Pavel once again and repeatedly: after the Senate has also agreed to rob pensioners to veto this law, because if President Pavel vetoes him, he will save those 3 million pensioners. So we are curious about how it will actually be, whether President Pavel will take the side of 3 million citizens of the Czech Republic, or whether he will take the side of the Fialův's five-calice government that supported him in the elections. Of course, I know you're working together, you're basically one group, but here we need to think about citizens, not ourselves. So that's the SPD's position. I call on you to freeze the salaries of politicians, and we will continue to fight for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u7	So far, you are the last logged in, President Fiala has withdrawn his priority right. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Before I begin to vote, I will make four apologies: from 11.45 to 13.15 apologize to President Pekarová Adamová for personal reasons, from 12 o'clock Mr Stanislav Fridrich apologizes for family reasons, from 13 o'clock for health reasons Mr Jan Volný and from 12 o'clock for work reasons Mr Vladimír Zlínský apologizes. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. I'll repeat what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number two, 140 Members have been voted in, 70 voted in, no one has. The motion was denied. The agenda hasn't been approved, so I'm ending the 62nd meeting. Madam President with priority rights - I will just warn her that soon I will have to interrupt it so that we can get back to the 54th meeting. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u8	Understood, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you. I'll be very brief. Let me just review what just happened here. We fought here for five days and four nights so that our pensioners would not be taken away 7,000 on average this year in pensions, the most vulnerable, those who worked their whole lives, would contribute to the system. We now wanted to open up the parliamentary proposal of Andrej Babiš as a symbol, modify it - because of course it has been filed and it has been here for just a year - and symbolically freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. Just say, "We breathe like tall politicians with you, with the whole nation, especially those retired people you so shamefully took away from that money." So that's it. What did you say? No, we're not talking about it. We're happy that salaries have increased by 11,000 on average here. Of course, with some higher functions, it's more than that. So I think you should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-062-01-000-000.u9	As I was saying, at 13 o'clock, according to the organizational committee's resolution, we will continue the suspended 54th meeting. Because we didn't approve the 62nd meeting, I'm interrupting negotiations within 13 hours. We'll be back at the 54th meeting at 13 o'clock. Thank you.
