ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u1	143. Revocation of Markéta Pekarová Adamová from the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies The proposal to dismiss Ms Markéta Pekarová Adamová as President of the Chamber of Deputies was submitted in writing by a group of 82 Members and Members. I will ask that the representative of this group, Mrs Alena Schillerová, take the floor. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a short quote, because some words are good to remind myself, and I quote: "I thank you very much and with great humility, with great humility, and believe me, I am very seriously and sincerely accepting this responsibility and I really appreciate it." End of quote. Yes, those were the first words that President Markéta Adamová said after the election. Humility. If I were to characterize its basically for a year and a half-long Presidency of this Chamber of Deputies and I should describe what I think is most lacking, it would be the absolute absence of humility. Humility to this Chamber of Deputies, opposition, but above all to the people outside, to all the citizens of this country. He's the one who's interested in the whole opening speech with the distance of time. It's not the only sentence that's gonna cause a smile today because it's completely moving away from reality. I will remind you of one more brief passage from that day on 10 November 2021. I quote: "I really think that our legislative body should look first of all at representing voters with dignity in the Czech Republic, even those who do not vote, simply the whole of the public and the people of our country, and that, in short, it is our duty, especially in those key matters, and I think that there are many of them waiting for us in this parliamentary term to act together and to defend the interests of all the citizens of our country. " End of quote. I would like to recommend to the President that she sometimes come down from that presiding counter and, instead of travelling abroad, go out among our fellow citizens, maybe try to meet someone other than the members, or voters, the TOP 09 and ask those people a simple question: If they feel they are defending their interests and values, whether they feel that they are performing their duties with humility. Looking at it like that, I feel like she'd probably be very surprised by the answers. I feel that humility and exuberance have remained forgotten in that opening speech. Only a few weeks later we heard the first, today the legendary statement by the President, in which it was sort of everything: The opposition should sit in a corner and shuffle its feet. This is a sentence which, by the mouth of the President of the House, whoever he is, is totally unacceptable, because who other than a man in this capacity should supervise whether the parliamentary opposition is being reduced to its rights and all are treated with respect and humility. But it's not just about words. It's also about the way this House is managed in the last year and a half, because that exactly matches the idea that we should be in the corner and maybe not even fucking with those legs. I remember in this good memory how in the previous parliamentary term, when our roles were reversed, and I, as Minister of Finance, expected that the then President of the House of Radek Vondráček - perhaps with an extraordinary meeting called for a certain time or with endless obstructions in discussing the amendment to the Act on Recording of Sales - would help us, in our position, of course, in the context of the possibilities given to him by the Rules of Procedure - the answer was always the same, namely that, as the President of the House, it must be strictly over-party in these matters. And of course I didn't like it, but I respected it. I respected it because I knew that I wasn't in my position forever, and in the future, our position could turn around. And that's what the current coalition obviously doesn't want to admit at all, and that's what everything looks like. I must say that it is Madam President who is taking great credit for these relations. Night marathons became standard when the House acted nonstop. Yes, we did not agree with some laws, yes, we wanted to surround them, just as you did in the past period, and therefore the EET, the construction law, but many other standards discussed many months, sometimes more than a year. And why was this going on for so long and we didn't rather cut one week's marathon? Well, because we respected you. We have seen your rights, your political culture, and the fact that there are a lot of employees who have to spend time with us in politics. [[19.10 hours]] The composition of the House was different, your opposition five-block plus the SPD had other obstructive tools than the two parties now have in opposition. You could only use the common pauses - and you did it too - to set aside 10 hours of negotiations and thus basically build up the whole day of the meeting, which you have also repeatedly demonstrated, for example, in the case of the permission of members of the media council. You guys had a bunch of priority rights that we just don't have. And so logically, in order to achieve the same goal as the opposition, we use other but legitimate ways. But you refuse to respect that, and then the atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies looks like it does, and then you are also responsible for escalating situations, as was the one in the negotiation of the probably unconstitutional law on the revision of pensions. You, President of the House, through the Vice-President, have made it possible for the opposition to be totally reduced to its rights, as if you had forgotten that you were sitting in opposition and that you would probably be sitting there again someday. When the situation reached a critical point that Friday night, when priority rights were removed, which, by the way, never happened in the past, I repeatedly called on you to summon the grémia, and I know that I was not alone. You, of course, rejected it. When else should we sit down and act at a time like this? Until the Prime Minister, to whom I can have thousands of reservations and I have, but here I will give him the credit, because he did the job for you and called a political grémium, where the situation eventually resolved somehow. It was your complete failure to confirm that you weren't supposed to be running this House. But it's not just about what's going on politically. I'll go back to the beginning of my performance, get back to the humiliation. Your statements about two sweaters, that the government isn't here to take care of people, or recent complaints from journalists, why is it using a Chinese phone, if it hasn't got an iPhone... I firmly believe it was meant to be a joke. Still, it all sums up a picture of whether or not you should be the top representative of this congregation. Of course, we are well aware that the carp is not releasing the pond, and coalition MPs are unlikely to release it to the chairman of one of the five coalition parties. On the other hand, I believe that the very crucial step that we have taken is sufficient to ensure that the government parties and, preferably, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová herself realize that her approach is not only wrong but is not even right. And even if she's likely to be president after today's vote, it would be good to keep three words in mind: all in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u3	However, I will ask the President to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the general debate that I am opening with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u4	I'm sorry, Mr Vice-President, we agreed at the club that the rapporteur for this press will be President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u5	Okay, but you were the first to act as a petitioner. Okay. If the other Members of the Chamber of Deputies agree to this, we do not have to vote on it, so I will ask Mr Vondráček to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table and watch the debate. Or do you want to vote on it? Does anyone object to anything? Is there an interest in the vote? I see head nodding, so let's vote. I'll call the other colleagues with Gong. In the meantime, I will make two apologies: for reasons of work, Mr Berki apologises from 17.50 to 18.50 hours and Mr Richter apologizes from 18.15 hours for reasons of work. Yes, I'm registering your interest in the check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your ID cards again. The number of Members has stabilized. I will remind those who are coming that we will vote on the proposal to amend the rapporteur, namely that there is a proposal for the rapporteur to be Mr Vondráček instead of Mrs Alena Schillerová. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 33, 141 Members voted in favour of 124, against 5. The motion was accepted. I will therefore ask Mr Vondráček to follow the general debate that I am opening from the rapporteur's table. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová reports with priority to the general debate. The President of Okamura will follow with priority rights. Madam President, please, you have the floor. I'm going to ask colleagues and colleagues to calm down and those who want to talk to each other to move to the lobby as far as possible. Thank you. We'll wait until the O.R.'s quiet. Colleagues, colleagues in the right side of the hall, please be quiet. Thank you very much. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to begin with, because today is actually the first opportunity to speak to you after we have completed our journey together with six Members in Taiwan, to express our gratitude for being able to make this trip. One of the things that is being blamed here by both the petitioner and in the media space by other representatives of those who have put this item in the meeting because they have signed under it is that I am not supposed to be the president of all of you. So I would also like to thank you from this place as well as the Taiwanese Legislative Court. The award that is always mentioned there that I received, so I see it as an award to the entire Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, not just to me, because this is how I approach exactly when I represent this chamber here in foreign travels. This may be a little strange in some, but I really wanted to share this with all my colleagues and colleagues. You know, the reasons I am hearing and the reasons that have also been raised here by President Schillerová, a party only to the coalition Members, I think that they are completely odd and that it can be traced repeatedly in the tapestry, when, as a governing meeting, I shout and lead to discipline, to respect for the Rules of Procedure and rules, really to any of the Members, whether it is from a government coalition or from the opposition. After all, I remember that sometimes when this situation happens either from me or from any of the Vice-Presidents of the government coalition to a government MP, it was also acknowledged from your side. I don't think you're gonna deny that. [[19.20 hours]] You know, the incriminating meeting, which is mentioned most often here, it was really tense. It was a reduction in valorisation, and I would like to briefly recapitulate what happened back then, because I think some people want to forget it or deliberately skip the facts, distort them. At that time, when the individual readings were discussed here, or it is actually in a legislative need to express themselves to the legislative emergency itself and to the next stages, several proposals were repeatedly voted, which were also justified by the petitioners on the basis of the statements of the Constitutional Court, which stated - and this is traceable - you certainly cannot deny - that even obstructions have a limit and that even a parliamentary minority, of course, has the opportunity to express itself within the obstruction, but there must no longer be destruction. On this basis, the petitioners have repeatedly relied on their proposals, and they are always decided by the House by a vote of the entire Chamber of Deputies and therefore decided on the basis of the majority's will. This has happened repeatedly here, and yet I hear it in public space, in your media statements, as if I had the power that the Rules of Procedure clearly does not give me, I am the one who decides what those decisions will be. In this regard, I would like to remind you that we have repeatedly discussed here in the event of a legislative emergency that the President of the House, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, will declare, at the request of the Government, this legislative emergency without him assessing whether the conditions are met and then only until the House as a whole, each of the 200 Members has the opportunity to confirm or, on the contrary, not confirm this legislative emergency. This may be a misunderstood or deliberate misrepresentation of how our Rules of Procedure speak. And so is the decisions that have been made here from the point of view of the individual proposals. After all, we will probably not question the fact that one of the proposals tabled by the opposition Member has been passed. Individual steps, whether or not the majority has made the right decision, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can be assessed by the Constitutional Court, whether it is certain to do so. If he is given the initiative, he will certainly do so, and we will only be able to really say on this basis and say what is sometimes said here that it is unconstitutional or against the Rules of Procedure and so on. What was really going on here during the negotiations, in my opinion, was an effort to escalate the negotiations at a certain stage so that the desired effect would simply take place towards the public. At the moment one of the chairmen of the opposition movement won such an unwritten speech-length contest, the other had an interest in doing even more here, and therefore refused to listen to the governing meeting and to listen to the fact that he was to end his speech and leave the pitch. But this is a matter for which the Member in question is always responsible for himself, anyone else - anyone else who is already in charge of the meeting, or is just an ordinary MP and is witness to it. And I think it is necessary to reject the situation here again, so that we may be forced to make sure that it has management meetings - and it was someone else at that time, not me, and I think that Vice-President Bartošek has handled the situation well, and I stand by him - so he must actually be responsible for the way in which the Member has listened or not. Because if we had accepted this logic, I remember in the last parliamentary term a very clear situation when my predecessor, Mr Vondráček, was the one who defended the actions taken against another Member, Lubomír Volný, who refused to leave the rhetoric. In his form, very destructive, he once again protested the way in which the law was passed, and at that moment, he was, and I think, quite rightly, taken out of the Chamber. And I remember the words that the President then said, that something like this is unacceptable if I paraphrase it. At that time, we, too, from the opposition, who were definitely not supporters of the then government, appreciated this procedure and did not blame the particular management or management, or the President of the House, for the way in which the situation took place. And I see a clear parallel. In this case, this is a very similar, if not the same, identical situation, where at first one Member refuses to listen to the management meeting and consequently the others come to his aid in quotation marks and then here ten, twenty, perhaps even more Members blocked the rhetoric. And who actually calls the grémium or summons it at that moment is also traceable from the log, because then Vice-President Bartošek after our agreement, even with the Prime Minister, I acknowledge that, but he called the grémium meeting on my behalf, the third time during that meeting, because the grémium certainly took place before. As for this description of why I'm saying this whole thing, there's a reason we don't leave the amount of lies running around in that public space. After all, there are countless lies about me, and one of them said from the mouth of my previous speaker a moment ago, that I claim that the opposition should keep silent and shuffle its feet. Well, I'm gonna find the exact statement to quote it, because I don't think it's fair to say it out of context, completely out of context. It was in an interview for Law on 13 April last year, and I said this on a question that concerned - or context, because I will not read the whole interview - which concerned the tender for Dukovan's completion. And I said at the time: "Remember, even a year ago, former Minister Havlíček sought to have Russian Rosatoma in tender. To him and all the like, who now tell us anything and advise us, I recommend that they shove their feet and remain silent in the corner." That's the end of the quote. But it certainly didn't sound like the whole opposition, the whole situation and something like that. There was no such thing. So please, let's put these things in the way they are, and if we don't want to see the context, I see it that way, or we want to distort the individual expressions and twist them like a whole bunch of others, I don't think it's a good assumption for us to have a fair discussion here. You know, from Mr. Okamura, for example, who's also supposed to perform, I'm sure there's been a lot of tantrums here at my address. It has fallen repeatedly, I will not say all of them, but I feel that we agree very often here and certainly others, that the aim is to arouse a certain envy. I don't remember discussing when, as Vice-President of the House, how much salary he took and what he rode and things like that. I don't remember at all if he was going on a business trip, he was the one who ordered refreshments in quotes. That's a new one now, when I want to assure you that the House President doesn't really do it, he doesn't. And by the way, if you want to deal with this, this question right here, like, two trips in 24 hours, about 90 people on board, of which 50 entrepreneurs, if I'm not mistaken, and everyone was paying for it, I don't think we want to entertain them with water and bread. On the other hand, it is very often in this regard that some, say, personal attacks, which I am going over in a way. I don't want to add oil to the fire yet, but I don't think that's exactly what we're worthy of here to pry on these strings of envy, hatred, deliberately spreading the untruths, hoaxes that appear in that public space, because I think that's below the level of every MP who made a promise here at the beginning of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Your performance brought up three factual points. First point of fact - Mrs Peštová, Mr Brázdil will be prepared. Before the lady arrives at the speaker's counter, I shall announce that Mrs Dražilová is disturbing today's apology. Madam, please, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have listened carefully to you, Madam President, through the President. I feel like we've all been to different meetings. You were talking about it, yes, in a beautifully monotonous voice you were driving, it was amazing, but the discussions here were heated, and in your nature, you took away the opposition's right. Two priority rights have been raised for us, you hear well, two priority rights! She didn't even get any more priority rights. Yes, we've been talking about factual remarks here, like until the morning hours, but you've also limited them in violation of the Rules of Procedure. What do the Rules of Procedure tell you? Does it allow you to limit factual remarks? After all, you have made a torn calendar out of the Rules of Procedure, you are bending it as you like! And now you're gonna tell us in a beautifully monotonous voice that we're actually the bad guys, that we're kind of squeaking you around. We don't prick you, we just want the law, which is the Rules of Procedure, to be observed. I believe other colleagues will perform. I've been there, I've been talking here until these morning hours, but I say, we've been, we've been having fun all along with factual remarks. And I say, my colleague, Mr Haas, through Mr President, he was here too, and I still thank him and I will thank him for responding and willing to talk to us about it, but we have not even gotten to our speeches because, as you say, you have democratically limited us. You have normally limited us democratically, and you have taken away everything we were entitled to. So don't be mad at me, you failed for me. You were supposed to be here, I don't know where you were, you were supposed to be here, and you were supposed to stop it. You should have stopped it before it got to where it got to. [[President: Time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u9	Thank you. Next, Mr Brázdil will speak with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mrs. Markéto Pekarová Adamová. [[A silence.]] As he tells me, through -- you didn't even let me finish. Let's do it again. Mrs Markéto Pekarová Adamová, through Mr President. Ten years ago is the first exit meeting of the Health and Social Committee. We had it together. And with a colleague, and I'll say it, Miloš Janulík, we sat with you at lunch. And we've been trying to have a conversation like this, loose, optimistic, and we've said some jokes. You haven't laughed once. And then I thought to myself, the lady, she has no sense of humor, it can happen. But now I know that, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, you're not, you don't have a sense of humor, you're a bad person, you're a bad person to me, I'll tell you. [[Loud bang to the right.]] You're a bad person to me because you actually took away my mandate. You, Chairman, didn't allow me to speak on the microphone that day a few weeks ago. When Mr. Žáček did it then on the Security Committee and did not give me the opportunity to allow me to execute the mandate, well, all right. And that's when he was supposed to apologize to other colleagues, apologize. Okay, I was waiting here today for you to apologize, say, so yes, I overreacted, and I would take that. And I might even believe that you're okay. You're not. You're not the president to me. And that you knocked, okay - I said my opinion, hopefully I wasn't extra bad, I was telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u11	Mr Brabec, next in line with the factual remark, will be prepared by Mrs Ožanová. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues. I'll be brief, I think I'll squeeze it in. We're all here - or the overwhelming majority of us were here back then, we remember the scene. I don't think we were happy for her, but we didn't summon her to try to escalate something here. We were manipulated by unprecedented restrictions on the right of the opposition, unprecedented, which never occurred here, into a situation that I think was not comfortable for any of us. And if the President of the House, through Mr President, thinks that we did it to get the police to do it around here, he is really, really, really wrong, and that is probably the best way to express the difference of understanding. Here's the problem for me. I just think - and I don't think you're gonna agree, I think you might not even knock, but if you knock, I don't want to say that I don't care, but I will say it - I think, Madam President of the House, through Mr President, that you simply lack human maturity, yet. I'm convinced this wouldn't happen for Vondráček, because he had the ability that was taught, partly possibly congenital, to soothe things when they started to sway, because it's the property of a leader. I think you just don't have it. The question of whether you'll ever get it - but I don't think you just have it, and here it has become clear. If Prime Minister Fiala hadn't really intervened in part, the grémium hadn't been summoned, it really went on to escalate, and I think to the detriment of everyone. I consider this to be a failure for you, Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies, through Mr President, and therefore the entire leadership of the House. And I think it really follows from the fact that you have qualities that are incompatible with it, that you can stand things when they start to spike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u13	I will now ask Mrs Ožanová. By the time he gets to the speaker's desk, I'll load three apologies. Mr Kohajda apologizes from 6:30 pm to 6:10 pm (?) hours for business reasons, Mr Kott Josef apologises from 19:00 to 19:30 for business reasons, and Mr Svoboda Pavel apologises from 19.15 to 19.30 for personal reasons. So, Mrs. Ožanová, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to point out that the President believes that she is the President of the House and that she is well run by the House. My doubts did not arise in the long discussion of pensions, but they arose when we had a video conversation with the President of Ukraine. It was supposed to be a dignified session, health care, everything. Here in the House, there was a person who was bouncing around, interfering with our ranks - not your esteemed coalition colleagues - filming on her cell phone, taking pictures. She was a young lady, she wasn't an MP, she wasn't an employee of the House. Even though the Prime Minister saw her, she didn't have her taken out. Allegedly, please - I don't know because I don't know all her assistants and assistants - she was her assistant. However, I have tried to find some basis for this situation to know whether or not to continue to talk about it. I sent the President an e-mail. She answered me in some way, that was all right. But what struck me was the title of our House President - mine, not anymore. Markéta Pekarová Adamová - I do not want anything to do with this - President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Chairman of the TOP 09. TOP 09, Chamber of Deputies, Opletalův 1603/57. Link to TOP website. Facebook TOP. And the logos SPOLU - TOP, ODS, where. Excuse me, maybe I can't imagine the Prime Minister writing: the Prime Minister, under the ODS. Clearly, the President believes that he is only here behind the coalition of the CAO and the TOP. Often at least according to the e-mail he sends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u15	Time, Madame, thank you. Next up, Mr. Benda. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put a stop to this, but after all, some of the speeches, especially in the factual ones, have been a little frowned upon by the opposition because it has been said repeatedly: I have listened to you, Madam President, and listened to you. You didn't listen to anything. Madam Speaker has made it very clear. I think we need to stand up for her on this one. All the decisions that took place in those four key days were the decisions of this entire House. It was the majority's decision in this House. No restriction can be brought by any of the presidents themselves, not even by the President of the House. All those decisions have been voted on. That means maybe you can be mad at us as a government majority, but it's not the President's fault. In this regard, I am clearly behind it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u17	Another comment will be made by Mr Žáček, Mr Feranec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would respond to a former colleague from the Security Committee who said that I apologized to him. Well, I'd like to state -- maybe I'll get on his list of bad people -- that I didn't apologize to him because I didn't have a reason. How I perceive the situation, how I perceive that there are certain political entities here that can only attack us personally, other colleagues, and no matter what, I think that would have to be condemned. I think the open discussion here is evidence of that. Let's learn to speak factually, let's try to discuss it in such a way that it's worthy of this House. In that sense, I would say that I think that the unnamed colleague should apologize to the President, because what he did... Let's end this. Politics isn't personal attacks. I know some of your leaders taught you that, but they don't. We should behave in a factual way as our ancestors, our political predecessors to whom we refer, our democratic political predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u19	Thank you. Mr Feranec will now appear, Mr Svoboda will prepare. Ambassador, please take two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u20	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister, members of the Government, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just a brief response to what the President said, but also to Mr Marek Benda, because it was said here both in her speech and from him, that every decision was made by the House, and it was never from the position of President. Well, I'd like to remind you - if I'm wrong, correct me and I'd very much like to apologize - I'd like to remind you of a decision. One of the first proposals to end the debate when there were several counter-proposals, so, if I am not mistaken, the President, as the President, said: There will be no more proposals, enough of them. It wasn't the House's decision. I just want the debate to be fair. Whether it was the right thing or the wrong thing to do, whether it was the right thing to do... So I'm just reminding you of this one particular decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u21	Mr Svoboda will now appear, Mrs Peštová will be prepared. We're still in factual notes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I'm very sorry to appear, but I'm doyen of this House, and that's why I think there are some things I'm not willing to listen to. Mr Brázdil, on behalf of the President, if you accuse a member of the Chamber of Deputies of being an evil man, you have used words that are useless in the House. Deciding that someone is a bad person, you can't in the House, you can't say it out loud. Say what you want, tell yourself that the Prime Minister was wrong, that she can't manage a meeting, that she's incapable of running a meeting, but don't say she's a bad person. This is unacceptable for me as a member of the House, who has had some age and who is your doyen! I don't want to tell you because I feel like you're not capable of this, but you should be more than sorry for those words!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u23	Mrs Peštová will make a point of order, Mr Juchelka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna take it easy. I don't want to talk about who he is or who he isn't a bad person. In any case, I would like to respond to Mr Benda, through Mr President - I no longer see him here. I'd just like to say that of course you'll agree to everything because you have your hundred and eight, so you're essentially overvoted for everything that we're going to say here, what we don't agree with. But what I am accusing is that the President, through the President, could have interrupted the meeting and could have called a great grémium. There's a possibility. In its essence, no one did this, even though it was called upon by our Member, the President of Mrs Schillerová's Club, and she did not do so anyway. She just let it go where she let it go, and then, of course, it got into the media and we look the way we look. But in any case, she could have done it. She just didn't run the meeting. I don't think she acted the way she was supposed to. Yes, she wasn't driving it because she had the opportunity, and she didn't. I don't want to argue with you here, Mr. Ambassador. I'm just saying, it's been mismanaged for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u25	With another factual remark, Mr Juchelka will speak. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, of course, have also been very sharp to the President, and I have been very critical here at this counter, for example, when, contrary to my will, she has changed the rapporteur as President of the Election Committee, which is not so common with the leadership of this House. It happened, we would count it on the fingers of one hand, and never for political reasons, but of course for professional reasons. This change of the rapporteur has, of course, affected me very much personally. I also asked the Speaker of the House why she came to this step here, why she did this here, why she put it this way on the Organising Committee, against the will of the chairman of the committee. I didn't get the answer. [[19.50 hours]] However, what the President of the House has said here about not being personal, we should not be personally offensive, and I fully agree with that, and therefore, Madam President, I apologise to you as Vice-President of the ANO club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u27	That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Okamura will now speak with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here an opposition point based on the SPD's signatures and YES's appeal by the President of the House of Pekarová Adamová from the Government's TOP 09. Although it seems that despite the government's majority, the opposition minority will not be able to remove Mrs Pekarová Adamová from the head of the House, it makes sense to repeat the serious reasons why such a person should not sit at the head of the House. It is indeed a disgrace that this House has never experienced before. Complaints about her management are here from the opposition virtually all the time, as well as her activism, with which she does things in the House that have not been customary so far. Prime Minister Petr Fiala is also very clear about the qualities of the President. Mrs Pekarová is the only leader of the party of the government coalition, a government five-calice that Petr Fiala did not take to the government, and he knew why. But, of course, he has to give her some decently paid and dignified newsstand to keep the coalition going. The statements and actions of the President have long been negative to the public and are, of course, the subject of jokes throughout the Republic. The President of the Senate pushed her out of the ODS, so that the consequences of their behavior, i.e. the fact that they are the subject of a massive mockery, even the Czech secret service of the BIS must deal with it. Mr Koudelka, head of the BIS, stated - I quote: "The disregard of the President of the Senate and the President The Chamber of Deputies tends to undermine society's confidence in the state. The BIS must respond to this." That's the end of the BIS Koudelka quote. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Pekarová Adamová's statements at the front desk are truly legendary. Her ideological enthusiasm is perhaps comparable only to those of the 1950s. But the fundamental reason that led us to call today's point on the appeal of the President of the House is the factual violation of the law that the President committed. First of all, we have the fact that the President has declared a state of legislative emergency that the government has requested for the amendment to the pension mechanism. That's the law you stole from last month, along with President Pavel, 3 million seniors about valorization. The government may ask for a state of legislative emergency at any time, but the announcement of this state must comply with legal parameters. A state of legislative emergency is to be declared in cases of wars, disasters and similar unexpected situations requiring a flexible response, in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when significant economic damage threatens the state, which is certainly not a case of legal valorisation. Moreover, in our view, a retroactive change in the rules for the payment of pensions is clearly unconstitutional. The other thing is the fact - and I would just stop there - that the President, contrary to the House's Rules of Procedure Act, has withdrawn the right to speak to opposition Members with the preferential right to which this right falls by law, which is a clear violation of the law. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister has abused her authority. In the words of the law, it exercised its jurisdiction in a manner contrary to another law. Mrs Pekarová broke the law out of completely contemptible motives because she wanted to illegally suppress democratic and free debate on parliamentary grounds. Such an attempt to restrict democracy directly in the House is not only reprehensible, but it is necessary that we do not allow this precedent to fit in and agree at least to silence the opposition by force and against the law is unacceptable in democracy. Democracy is that the majority rules, but also that the majority does not silence the minority. The main thing is that democracy is primarily a free debate that the Democrat does not destroy and destroy, whether on the Internet or on television, in the press or on parliamentary soil. To sum up the above, President Pekarová is so embarrassed by Parliament that the Czech secret service of the BIS must deal with this. Madam President cannot manage the House, on the contrary, he only increases chaos. Mrs Pekarová Adamová broke the law by her decision to suppress democratic debate and to seize the right of the parties to speak. Mrs Pekarová is clearly suppressing democracy, even on parliamentary soil, which, by the way, was also realized by the five-wheelers of the government, where, at the request of the opposition and repeated loud requests of the opposition, the opposition of the government coalition rejoined the fact that you illegally removed our preferential right, and you set it right in an hour and a half, so the government coalition itself acknowledged that the House President does not rule the House in accordance with the law and that there has been a violation of the law. So right here, it's completely flagrantly clear. You may argue that Mrs Pekarová Adamová does not know Section 67 of the House's Rules of Procedure Act, which clearly states that the House President will give the floor at any time when she asks, among other things, to the Members who are the chair of the political party or the movement to which the Members of the Assembly established at the beginning of the parliamentary term are responsible. Mrs Pekarová Adamová had the opportunity to study at least the Act on Rules of Procedure, according to which she was to manage the meeting. She didn't even handle this basic thing, or, and that's a worse option, she knows the Rules of Procedure, but she doesn't give a damn about the law and suppresses the rights of others completely arbitraryly. A man like that does not belong in the leadership of the House. If it wasn't for the coalition, she and her party weren't in the House. This, too, is to think that the House President is a representative of a group that has actually entered Parliament only after the back of another stronger group and does not in itself have the trust of citizens. Here we see that trust is not entirely right. What can I say in conclusion? Of course, people from all over the Republic are writing us a lot more legitimate and absolutely fundamental reservations about Mrs Pekarová's behaviour with Adamová. Let me just remind you that before the parliamentary elections in Hungary, the President of the House Pekarová Adamová publicly expressed the desire for voters to expel Orbán, the Prime Minister of our allied country, both within the V4 and within the EU. The shame of her performance has thus shifted to international level. The minimum we demand of the President here in the House is that the representatives of the five-wheeler at least comply with the law in the House's meeting, and that is not what Mrs Pekarová Adamová does. By the way, your performance was full of untruths again, I'd say lies. Firstly, the Volný Member did not have a preferential right to speak, to which the parties' presidents are entitled by law, so we are dealing with a completely different situation here. Secondly, you lied in public again, and you were talking about spreading envy and hatred. After all, it was you who made a public comment in the media without being asked about the location of my house in the district in Prague to turn people against my family. For the reasons set out above, Mrs Pekarová Adamová's removal from office is requested by the SPD. These are, above all, the legal reasons I was talking about. We demand an appeal from the chair of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u29	Thank you. I shall just repeat that we are addressing the other Members through the President, including President Pekarová Adamová. In fact, Mr. Okamura Hayato is reporting. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u30	Good evening, dear colleagues. I am not a lawyer and no great expert in the Rules of Procedure, but here we are discussing the question of the possible appeal of our President, Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová. And when I look at a year and a half of its performance in this extremely responsible and challenging, we must also say a constitutional function, so I must clearly commend it despite all human imperfection. She is also very much in the field of international contacts of our House, where she actually performs for our entire congregation, does not make any party differences there. I myself had the honour and opportunity to be here in the House at several international meetings, once on a common trip to Poland. And I must highlight the great culture, the perspective, the education and the diplomatic talent of the Prime Minister. [[20.00 hours]] That's probably all I can say. I trust President Markéta Pekarová Adamová, I respect her as a person, and I'm sure I'm in favour of her continuing her duties. And I wish you all a blessed and joyful Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u31	Thank you, too. With another factual point, Mr Rais - or not with another, but with a factual point. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Mr Rais by mistake, well, we will continue with the priority rights, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala will speak with priority rights. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u32	Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I think that all of us here and who are watching this meeting know that the opposition attack on the President of the Chamber of Deputies is a proxy attack. Eight dozens of opposition Members wanted to re-determinate themselves against our government, our government coalition, and in doing so they decided without any objective reason to attack the President of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a step that follows various, various attempts by the opposition to obstruction, obstructions that are not intensity, length, actually nothing, the extent comparable to those obstructions that we did in the last parliamentary term. And after all, when the opposition or part of the opposition, to be fair, even physically blocked this supreme institution of Czech democracy, which was contrary not only to the Rules of Procedure but also to all the rules of parliamentary culture, tries to conceal this failure by accusing President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Today, therefore, it is nothing more than a proxy program, which fills the time that the House has, instead of deciding on things that are really useful to citizens of the Czech Republic. I believe that citizens understand what is going on here, that they are watching these attempts and that they are also adding up these attempts. I do not consider my own failure to be dignified in a number of ways, and I think it is not dignified. It is undignified especially for those who have been granted this replacement attack. And the way you approach the President in this debate shows many things. Characteristic as an evil person, speaks in a monotonous voice, lacks personal maturity, resembles ties of the 1950s, simply personal attacks, attempts at psychological evaluation, some sort of psychological pseudoanalysis, something that just doesn't belong in this House, and that in communication between politics really is a violation, a clear violation of political culture. Finally, that the attack is motivated politically, the words of President Alena Schillerová, who - to be fair - did not use these defensive statements, nevertheless evaluated here political statements, political views, political speeches by President Pekarová Adamová, which clearly shows that the attack is politically conducted. And if we were to treat your people like this in the leadership of this Chamber of Deputies, we would have had to call off Vice-President Havlíček a long time ago. But we do not approach the people who are in charge of the Chamber of Deputies, we can distinguish his political position, his party-political position and his appearance as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I think that this has always been a good tradition in this House and that you should also do so in the case of President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Once again, it's a proxy, it's an attack on a government coalition, and it's an attempt to cover up your failure in the negotiation of valorisation adjustments. But if the opposition wants to talk about Markéta Pekarová Adamová, I respect that right and I am prepared to present my position and position in such a debate as the entire government coalition. And that is the following: Madam President Markéta Adamová is handling her position well. Markéta Pekarová Adamová also does not commit any excesses that we have witnessed here in recent years, we who have been in this House for the past and the previous term of office, we have a vivid memory and there is no point in naming them today. From Markéta Pekarová Adamová, we didn't get anything like this, and we didn't get it, among other things, because she works completely professionally. We should be grateful that we have a competent politician in the leadership of the House, which, with dignity - and I would like to stress this - is a dignified representative of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and our entire country. Moreover, a politician who, all the time in office, is sincerely trying to find consensus and create a compromise between MPs and political parties, even if it is not easy, and this time it is not at all easy. And also a politician who strictly insists on following the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Culture in the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations - that is to say, he is doing exactly what his duties require. For all these reasons, President Markéta Pekarová Adamová has my support and also has the support of all sides of our government coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u33	Thank you, too. I've taken over the meeting, a lovely evening. And now we will proceed to factual remarks that respond. First to report to Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, Mrs Taťána Malá will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u34	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues, Prime Minister, I can address you directly. You know, if you were watching, for example, I wanted to talk about the President's meeting earlier. I proposed a point in the agenda that was just about to discuss her error in my telemosty with Mr. President Zelenský today. Really, I'm sorry, her assistant probably violated that dignity at the time, and yet the Prime Minister didn't banish her. Even then, I wondered if this was possible, if this is because only a part of the political spectrum was being harassed. But if that's what you consider dignified, I don't. Who has access to this room? Anybody. Please, I ask that all my assistants come here anytime and film anyone and make records. If you're asking me if I have any evidence - yes. I didn't find this scene on the House's website, but Uncle Google is really good, I looked it up on the Czech TV records. I even checked that I'm really not wrong about the person who was jumping in there being filmed. So, I'm sorry, for me, the meeting that just kept being mentioned today was just a climax. It's a set of excesses, it's not a single thing, one act. Please try to recover, there are many such little things. And in conclusion, Mr Feranec, through you, a colleague here said that we were silenced in the debate with reason that there are many of us. According to the Constitution, each Member acts for himself and it does not matter that there are many of us. [[Time.]] Unfortunately, in our club there are 61 of us, in other 4. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u35	Thank you. I beg you to keep your time. Mrs Taťána Malá is now on the table with her own decision and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared, then Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good evening, colleagues, I must respond to the Prime Minister, who unfortunately is no longer here at the moment. Sounds like a bad dream to me. So when you sat in opposition and criticized something, it was constructive criticism. When we sit in opposition, we criticize something, we do not like the fact that you are making a tearing calendar out of the Rules of Procedure, covering up some problems and incompetence in your opinion. When people were demonstrating for us outside, we were an incompetent government, and we were justifiably criticized. When those people are standing in the square because of you and the incompetence of your government and your coalition, they're pro-Russian cockroaches. Please, do you want to tell us what the rules are and think a little bit and wonder if there's really time for some self-esteem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Berenika Peštová is now next with her own decision, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, my colleague Taťána Malá said a great deal of what I wanted to say here too. But in any case, I'll pick up, I'll keep going. The Prime Minister's speech seemed to me... those speeches a long time ago, and especially the message that was there: who doesn't come with us, goes against us. You, in essence, are already treating us in such a way that we can't even have our own opinion anymore. We can say it here, and after we say it freely, the freedom after we say it isn't, because we're being spanked because we're pro-Russian cockroaches, we support Russia, yet no one here says anything like that. We've been trying to talk about how we don't like the way you treat the opposition. I myself have also proposed several points where I did not like it and wanted to deal with it here in plenary. Unfortunately, those points weren't even taken to the program. I just wanted to follow up on what the Prime Minister said about Mr. Havlíček. So Mr Havlíček is bad at honoring the Rules of Procedure, because it was the counterproposals that fell here that he had written them up honestly and put them to a vote. And Mrs Pekarová, who broke the Rules of Procedure because there were too many of them, and she said they were all the same, so she just didn't take it at all and she didn't let the democratically vote on it. Have you forgotten how you're gathering here? If you see that there are few of you here, as one of you comes along and starts telling us stories and greetings everywhere, and before his counterproposal falls, you'll run with your tongue out? You guys should clear your own doorstep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, then Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u40	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I will comment on the speech by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, through you, Madam President, and the speech by the Prime Minister. I'm really, really disappointed in both performances. More of the Prime Minister's performance, then. Instead of speaking with humility and speaking as people who understand the position they are in, what their task is and that they should find the humility in themselves, the Prime Minister has, unfortunately, acted as a self-centered person, and at times I thought that the President of the House would do some soul-searching, and I hope that that was the case. But understand one thing. You have lost an ordinary human face, not before us, but before the nation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u41	I also thank you for keeping time. Mrs Jana Pastuchová now, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. As Patrik Nacher says, I didn't want to perform either, but he raised me from the chair a little speech by the Prime Minister. Even if it's the Prime Minister, sometimes you keep them quiet, honey. And I don't think it would have been those factual remarks if he hadn't shown us his speech here. And I gotta say, this place really stinks. He's the one who attacked us here that by doing this, we actually have or are covering up some weakness. We called this meeting after the four days and three nights in the Chamber of Deputies when we were deprived of the right to speak. You may not have realized that our parliamentary club has 71 Members and each of these Members has the right to speak. Some MPs have four, so they've done it very quickly, we're 72. So please, 71, thank you, Minister. It wasn't our failure. We were here to prevent pensions from being valued. So we don't find any weakness here. We were only defending ourselves, but you forbade us. Please remember, we're 71, we're all elected to be somebody, some kind of county, and we all have and we want to have the right to speak here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u43	Thank you, too, for keeping time. So now Mr Ladislav Okleštěk and there are other factual ones, then Mr Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm a little gender-balanced, because there was a slump of women here, but I have to comment on the Prime Minister because I couldn't do it anymore. Dear and kind Prime Minister, I don't know who wrote this to you. You read it well, but the content - disaster. I can't imagine anything more demagogic than what was said here. The fact that you criticized us, that we didn't stand up to the defense of pension valorization, your defense, well, that's the big deal, 'cause we did our best, and you bent what you could. So there's nothing to talk about. You failed, and maybe there will be a Constitutional Court to straighten it out. I was scared that there was a constitutional judge named Marek Benda running. [[Ambassador Benda ran through the O.R. Fun and laughter in the hall.]] But I'm sorry, Marek, I still have some space. But the Prime Minister's attacking us here that we are politicizing and dragging politics here on this land - kind Prime Minister, at the moment of your election, you have become a politician, as we all have, whether we wanted to or not. So to politicize in the Chamber of Deputies, I think that's your job and ours, and we're supposed to pursue that policy so that it's for the people. So please, for next time, straighten it out and learn the lyrics, because if you can't come up with the positives about the president, that's wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u45	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Richard Brabec, with his own facts and still wants to respond to the debate, then Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I also have a brief, really, I haven't been able to comment on the Prime Minister. Well, if the Prime Minister thinks we're performing here to somehow draw attention to us, or to turn her away from the government, then, folks, you're on your own, government. I think that you have the attention now, of course, with the Czech Post and with a whole number of other things, of course, you deserve it yourself and you don't really need any opposition, so that's not why we're doing it. But I, like my colleagues and others, was really surprised by that tone again, the professor's, the psychic - what you dare to say, now in the words of the Prime Minister, to criticize us or criticize us here in some way, even the President of the House. Straight up again. I understand that you're defending her, of course, that you're defending your deputy, the President of the House, that's okay, but you're still taking away the right of criticism, and it doesn't seem weird to you at all. Or I believe not all of them, but some of them. So that the Prime Minister is defending his five-calice president too, I understand. That's probably normal, just like you'll be defending it pretorially somewhere. But the fact that you're saying that we can't even afford to criticize - and I'm saying again - if I said something about human maturity, and I'm convinced of it, it's not a pejorative thing, or it's not a curse at all, I have every right to do so. [[20.20 hours]] Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies is the top manager, she is the head of this Chamber of Deputies, with which she simply combines some qualities and should certainly bear such criticism, which is certainly not rude. But I'm not gonna let that make me crazy, with all due respect, from the Prime Minister that I can't even afford this. Well, that's really just the foot-pumping thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Aleš Juchelka now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. I always like the Prime Minister that he always says something here, and he doesn't talk to us anymore, he walks away, and he just doesn't show up here anymore, and he's not even able to respond to us. As far as obstruction is concerned - obstruction will always be if one of the government coalitions submits legal standards that go, for example, against the spirit of democracy, against the laws, which happened in those three days. We believe that the whole valorization was simply legally built on water. If it's all right and there's a classic legislative process, we're not gonna be obstructing, and if, of course, those laws are really democratic. If we define ourselves against the government coalition - yes, we define ourselves, but here in this House you define yourself with your standards against citizens of the Czech Republic, not only by valorisation, but also by how you trample on certain and unwritten democratic values of this House. I, if Mr. Žáček here said anything about the leader of our movement, that he is a leader, then I dare say that the leaders are, of course, here in the five-calice, the leaders of the individual parties and the movement. So your leaders tell you and you raise your hand blindly to such things as: you normally approve a state of legislative emergency where it does not belong, you limit your speech, you let the members of the Board of Czech Television vote publicly because you failed to do so secretly twice to watch each other who votes. Of course, your leaders support all of this. You're limiting interpelation. We've only had five interpelations since the beginning of the parliamentary term. You do not approve of our programs, you do not want to discuss with us normally democratically about individual standards. You raise your hand to all of this when your leaders command. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u49	Thank you and Mr Patrik Nacher, with the last in fact. Then I have two priority rights in the record. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u50	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, well, I won't let you down. I didn't originally report, but I have to. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It was the Prime Minister who provoked the urge in me, so that's the rush from the top. And it was that word that we called this point, that it was a proxy point, a proxy for something. Well, first of all, let me remind you that we were collecting those signatures, as far as I know, just after an emergency meeting to valorize. That means it wasn't a point that we'd put in here, maybe, and we collected it yesterday, the day before yesterday, last week. That means, it was authentically right after we were dissatisfied with the way you guys were rolling it for those four days, so it was a spontaneous reaction. There's nothing to hide. If anyone here has something to cover up, it's you, unfortunately, to the situation in the Czech Post. You didn't give us one point today. But the Prime Minister wanted to, or someone here said you were short of factual arguments. So I'll tell you two what bothers me, and I'm here for the second term, in this parliamentary term, how you, like most, are taking advantage of your position. The first is, and someone has already suggested that whenever we have an emergency meeting, you put it there on Thursday, so the interpelations are canceled. It might as well have been that I had my first written interview with the Prime Minister, and it took me six months to get my turn. That's probably not okay, and you'd be the first to criticize it. It means abuse of those points that they're on Thursday instead of interpelling. And the second thing is how you go about the obstructions. In the previous parliamentary term, the days ended at 7:00 or 9:00, so you could reconstruct for a year, while you're dragging it through the night, that's how you light up and drive on the obstructions when the opposition gets tired - so we'll leave them there for the weekend. And that's the different approach to the same thing. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u51	Thank you and one more factual point by Mrs Berenika Peštová, who is reporting with her factual point. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I quickly looked it up, Madam President, through you - here she said that she never said that the opposition should sit in a corner, shuffle their feet and keep quiet. So she said. She said it on Czech TV when it was a 90-day extension. So, Prime Minister, don't lie to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u53	Thank you for keeping time, and we are now returning to applications with priority rights. Mr. Chairman of TOP 09 Jan Jakob and then President Jakub Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the opposition is putting itself in the role of judges. Worse yet, into the role of some kind of moral judge. I am such an approach far away. I will not be here to commemorate a number of cases linked to the representatives of the ANO movement who were in charge of the Chamber of Deputies, and that these cases were really really cases, unlike the current situation. Likewise, I will not evaluate the performance here, including the withdrawal from the past, by President Tomio Okamura, especially when he spoke to President Pekarová Adamová. I don't think his statements are the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies. Nor will I judge here and say who is evil, who is not evil, who is good, who is mature for some function or not. The powers and responsibilities of the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber. I am quite convinced that the President fulfils these obligations very responsibly, precisely, in the interests of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole, and, above all, in accordance with the letter of the law. Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies is also the chair of the political party TOP 09. He certainly comes out of this position with clear political opinions. This right is certainly not to be taken away from her, let alone blame her. Indeed, it is not the first in the history of the Chamber of Deputies, when the chair of this Chamber is also the chair of the political party. There were two of them, both of them becoming presidents of this country in their future careers. Who knows, maybe it's some promise of future career, Madam President, and you might be very surprised in the future. When the President applied for this position when her choice was taking place, in response to the ongoing rather heated debate, she also actually made a candidate speech, even though it was not customary in the past on this land. I, as colleague Schillerová, read it again after a while and, unlike her, I have to say that the President stands by her words at the time and proves it by his actions. For example, we have successfully managed the challenge before us, namely the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies was, of course, part of this Presidency, and all the actions it organised or co-organised were very well and they represented our country and the chamber well within the European Union. [[20.30 hours]] The President has also promised the opening of the Chamber of Deputies, and I must say that it succeeds in opening the House of Public Affairs, whether communicatively or in fact, as evidenced by concrete steps, whether they are cultural or educational events, but perhaps also the future Parliamentarium, which we will soon open. It is also very active in promoting the best possible conditions for the work of all Members across the political spectrum. And it really doesn't have it easy these days, because the best thing for politicians is, of course, saving themselves for the work of the Chamber of Deputies, and I know very well that he fights very cordially for all of us. I feel that you may also blame the President here for not representing the Chamber of Deputies quite well on the outside. I must strongly disagree with that. I troufnout say that in this respect, she is a significantly better chairwoman than many of their predecessors. On the one hand, it is the chairman who often eats among people. You don't see that, but I know it very well, and on the other hand, it represents us perfectly abroad, like that last visit to Taiwan. Someone has gone to Russia in the past, Madam President is going to Taiwan, and I am sure that the latter is significantly better - not only for what our chamber looks like, but also for our country. A lot of the debate here, too, is about how the Chamber of Deputies works in this parliamentary term, which is blamed here by the opposition mistress. But, indeed, the President is not responsible for that. This is the fault of those who use all the tools and the cracks of our Rules of Procedure. There is mention of the long five-day and four-night meeting where obstructions turned into destruction, when the negotiations culminated, and I was really ashamed at that moment. The leadership of this place, this counter - unfortunately, we experienced it during the last term of office, we experienced it in this, and yet here the Chamber of Deputies has always decided by its resolution. Nothing was decided by the President of her own accord. In summary, there is really no relevant reason for the President to be removed from her position. There are only political games and attacks, some kind of moral judgment that certainly doesn't belong to us. You've chosen President Pekarová Adamová as your target, which you're constantly bombarding. For the TOP 09, maybe it's a good thing you're giving us a lot of space in the media. [[Fun in the left side of the hall.]] But it's certainly not easy for the Prime Minister, and that's why I respect her very humanly. I respect her for handling this difficult situation today and on other days, and I really bow to her. There's a political theater going on here today. I don't blame you at all, it's your right, and in the end it belongs to politics. However, for the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, we will be voting on the motion to appeal the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's a really big bite. And I have to say, even as things are going on here, that bite isn't very tasty, and I'm worried it might come as a surprise. I would like to put an end to this theater by voting to see if the President has the support of Members, and to approve the laws in the next time that we spend here in order to do the real work - as it is for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u55	Thank you. Now, first, I'm going to load up an apology. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing since 20.20 for family reasons. We will now proceed to two factual remarks raised by this speech, namely Mrs Margita Balaštíková, and then Mrs Taťána Malá will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u56	Good evening again, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to speak to my previous speaker, Mr Jakob, through you, Madam President. I think, my colleague, that by bringing the EU Presidency back here, you have come running. I'm going to interpel the Prime Minister to finally write us a list of what we've achieved, because all I can hear is empty words, and everyone's yelling, "Nothing." I've always spoken about agriculture, but I hear it from other resorts. Glory to the empty words, that's what you're good at. I like deeds, so nothing here. And you said the sentence that there was a political theater. It really started out as such a tragedy, but your speech really turned into a comedy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u57	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Taťána Malá. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr President Jakob, through Madam President, I have a request for you. Please don't scare people! Don't scare us here. This nation's got enough to worry about at this point, this whole country. You've got something to do with it, and you're scaring people with oracles where we're gonna see President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please don't scare me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u59	I also thank you for keeping time. With another priority right, President Jakub Michálek is signed up, and then in order to be known, the rapporteur with priority rights, and then President Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u60	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have read in the media that we are facing an alley of shame. I'm so glad that's not quite the case. There are opinions which oppose both the President's work and the President's, and in view of what has happened. Just to recapitulate it, the main reason, or, as the opposition describes it, is that the President intervened against the obstructions to which the opposition basically claimed and promised to run them here - instead of the standard negotiations, they would be obstructions. Then I think it is right that the President intervened. It is also her duty under the Rules of Procedure to allow the Chamber of Deputies to function dignifiedly and to oppose the conduct of Members who are unworthy. [[20.40 hours]] Of course, as part of the obstructions, various creative techniques were invented to do everything. Most of the time it was such a boyish thing, which I guess you can understand, given the late evening they were taking place. For example, that one controversial moment was when the opposition was reading further and further proposals for interruptions, and they differed only one minute before the interruption was to end, so the President intervened and said that the proposals were too much and that it was beyond the Rules of Procedure. Of course, the opinions are different, but the idea that someone can make an endless number of proposals that a club, even a four-member club, can endlessly perform with some proposals, infinitely stop the entire Chamber of Deputies by making proposals for interruptions, is something we all understand that could not work. So there's a certain degree of intervention. I don't know if after ten proposals to interrupt, if after seven proposals or 30 proposals from which it is possible to end it, and I think, let's just talk about the extent of where it's supposed to be, and let's make a point, but I guess it can't be forever. By proposing interruptions, no one can argue that he would be deprived of the opportunity to speak because, on the contrary, different limits were proposed. When I'm talking to normal people, it was also said here by President Schillerová, I listened carefully, so all the normal people I'm talking to are knocking on their heads and asking how much longer we will tolerate the peace of obstruction, that it has really gone beyond a certain limit. And I would appeal to talk to those normal people, because they don't feel normal that they have to go to work, and there's basically always a lot of boy stuff going on here, like I said. It has already been said several times that what the President has decided, those things have been confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies, which is the procedure that the Rules of Procedure foretells, because there may be different views on a particular matter, and it is right that the Chamber of Deputies has decided so and that the procedure has been confirmed. Of course, you might want to call us all off, most of the Chamber of Deputies, but it's not like the Prime Minister here is taking advantage of anything herself. Likewise, the Chamber of Deputies even confirmed by your votes that it is possible to limit priority rights, because when there was then a vote on a limit agreement, there was also support from the opposition. On the other hand, it must be said that when we approved the resolution here in the Chamber of Deputies, it was the opposition that did not respect some of the provisions - approved by the Chamber of Deputies. So, of course, it needs to be evaluated on its own. I think that the President of the Chamber of Deputies is to defend the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, to defend the Chamber and its sovereign decisions, and so has the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I understand that you, as a minority who wanted to build, may be dissatisfied with this, but the democratic majority, too, have the right to have the Chamber of Deputies working and fulfilling its legislative role under the Constitution. It has already been said that the President has called the grémium, or it has been agreed that we will meet, and I find it really absurd for the President to be criticized at the moment when the opposition has been met and the grémium has been convened. I don't think that's possible at all. And another criticism was about Taiwan, and I'm going to do it alone. I think Taiwan is an important democratic ally. Taiwan has created some 17,000 jobs here. It's a democratic country, it's our ally in Asia, it's a country we want people to learn Chinese in a democratic country, so we can send them there, our students, and develop mutual relationships with them, and they're interested. This is where my colleague Marek Benda, in particular, contributed to his relationship with Taiwan in those old days, for which I thank him through Madam President. Subsequently, we deepened the relations with Taiwan as pirát, when we made our way there with Mr. Mayor Zdeněk Hřib, then the President of the Senate drove there, then Nancy Pelosi went there, by the way, or the President of the American House of Representatives, and then the President of our Chamber of Deputies went there, and I appreciate that very much. I think wan is our ally. They make, like, chips. We can inspire ourselves, we can establish trade and work together in this area, where there is a great opportunity for synergies, and I think it is absolutely great that we have managed to deepen this cooperation. So if the opposition is accusing us of where the President is going, remember your paths where your President of the Chamber of Deputies went when you ruled. [[Yes: Where?]] I'm not even gonna say it here. It wasn't Taiwan, but it was going to Russia. To Russia with the President of the Duma. Russia, which then declared us an enemy state. [[Inconvenient remarks made by Members YES 2011.]] So, Madam President Pekarová, through Madam President, please do not take advice from people whose foreign policy has failed. What we're doing is the right direction. Our orientation on democratic countries is absolutely the right direction, and continue with this effort. I could also continue to see the way the opposition President ran the meeting we were discussing that night, the obstructions, when people were catching up, how he wasn't even waiting for it to go, so it was all a rush, a rush, a rush to vote immediately, how the resolution was squabbling so you could stop it, so you didn't mind the unilaterality there. That's where you need to touch your conscience. I remember that night very well, and it wasn't that your chair was also chaired completely neutrally. Let's focus on this ideal, let's try, let's talk about how to cultivate it, but I think the criticism to be correct should describe things in complexity as they were done here in the hall. I certainly see no reason to appeal to President Pekarová. Finally, we as pirát will support the public vote on the resolution, such as the basic starting point, as voted on the resolutions in this Chamber of Deputies. We have also supported this with personnel votes always and, of course, we will not support the appeal proposal itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u61	Thank you. Two factual points have been raised so far. Member Jaroslav Bžoch reporting, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr Michálek, through Madam President, can you tell me what went wrong with our foreign policy when we were with the government? Give me an example. You probably don't remember. You have a short memory in my mind. All governments before and maybe even this government has always wanted us to reduce the states of, for example, Russian representatives at their representative office. And who did that? Who reduced it to a minimum? It was our government after the Willows, so don't say that nonsense! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u63	Thank you for your time and now for Mr Patrik Nacher's factual comment. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u64	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I also have to respond to my colleague Michálek. I really tried not to react to it until the last moment, your colleague will testify to that, and then I really knocked on it because I couldn't. First of all, you said that when ten of us signed up here for amendments, whether it's a lot or not. You're looking at it through the optics of your club, where there are four of you, but we were 72 of you back then, which means ten is one-seventh, that's half of the pirát. [[Laughs and applause in the ranks of members of YES 2011.]] So that sounds like a little bit to you? Not to me. So if you applied to two pirát with two amendments, it's like we're 36 people. [[Again, laughter and applause.]] We have to take this in some sort of affair. So you always have to look at it with this optics. That's one thing. As for the obstructions, I repeat it over and over again, and we don't listen to each other. Before here, the political culture was set up so that the obstructions were actually going well for you, so, for example, those EET topics, it took a year to discuss. I was just saying the number of days, if you give me time, then I'll find it, and I'll sign up again. But it could have taken a year because we respected that even the opposition can obsess and that it ends at 7:00 or 9:00, but you didn't respect this from the first moment you did, so you're going through the night. So it looks like the obstruction is different than it was before, but it's different because you just don't respect the law you used yourself. [[20.50 hours]] I'll remind you here, when the Czech Television Council was allowed, how five clubs took a two-hour break, ten-hour cumulative, I asked you if I could go to your club to see how you were consulting overnight, you didn't invite me there, so you didn't advise, that's what it was. So about that much for the obstructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Michálek and then Minister Bartoš are now making a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u66	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond. You asked me what went wrong with your foreign policy. Well, it failed in the fact that you and Miloš Zeman primarily focused on Russia and China, not on democratic countries. It was a very wrong choice. Of course, after Vrbětice came, you had to revise it, it couldn't have been done - if this had gone on, it would have been behind the edge of treason, but I think this was a fundamental strategic mistake, which you damaged the Czech Republic and damaged unnecessarily those relationships that we could have developed with democratic countries. And in terms of making proposals, this analogy really limps on both legs. The idea that each member's club will submit one proposal for each Member is a little funny. The next time you file a bill as an opposition party, will you also submit 71 different alternative bills? No. Normal people meet at the club, wonder what their strategy is, and make suggestions according to the strategy so that they have an ideal chance to go through. So that's how political clubs work. Of course, feel free to make proposals of 72 or whatever you want, but it's just another kind of obstruction, it's not something that has added value for our actions or for our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u67	Thank you again for keeping time. Now Minister Ivan Bartoš, then Mr Jaroslav Bžoch and David Pražák will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u68	I'd just like to respond to this obstruction thing about the EET. If Wikipedia is telling the truth, Patrik Nacher was not an MEP in the House at the time of the EET discussion, he was elected to the House in 2017, if I am not mistaken. And we were not in the Chamber of Deputies before 2017, when we approved the EET, the first one, if we were still going back to that first hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Reactions are, of course, possible, but on the microphone. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, then Mr David Pražák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u70	One more time. Our foreign policy was so much focused on Russia that Prime Minister Babiš was visiting the President of the United States at the time and never visited President Putin in Russia. When I take all the Western politicians, Merkelová and Macron were handing themselves the door - no one blamed them until they invaded Ukraine. You guys are really funny about what you're saying. Think about it. Foreign policy has always been west oriented and has always been oriented in the same way. If the Castle had a different policy, it may be true, but not the government that was here before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr David Pražák, with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u72	Good evening. I did not want to respond, but I will go back to President Michálek through Madam President. In that first speech, you spoke of calling a grémia, that we are here criticizing President Pekarová, through the President. It wasn't like that. She was invited to summon the grémium in that heated situation, and she refused. It wasn't until Prime Minister Fiala intervened, so she took back her decision and called the Grémium. A few hours earlier, we pointed out that she had been invited to interrupt the meeting for a while, to meet the members of the MPs and to agree on the procedure, and the President replied that she did not see the reason for this. And that never happened in the past. Every time the President of the Assembly asked for a short suspension of the meeting, he was granted, mainly because he wanted to consult the other members. So it's just about the statement you said in the first performance. And in the other, you said something about strategy and strategic mistakes. One of the keys was here after the previous parliamentary elections. The strategic error was that the starosta couldn't finish what we pointed out to them that they would erase you in the House elections, and you stayed here as four. That was the strategic mistake of not being able to make it to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u73	Thank you again for keeping time. Now we return to logged in. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Radek Vondráček has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u74	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I don't think I'm going to surprise anyone by saying that I'm going to reduce my original contribution significantly, because I think the atmosphere has moved somewhere where we can't get it back. On top of that, my first place in the debate and the news - I really did not suffer the unruly desire and need to speak first here. I really wanted to report to become a rapporteur and maybe somehow direct the debate. It was naive of me because I completely forgot about the facts, I completely forgot about the priority rights and it turned out here again as always. In my original speech, I wanted to tell you, first of all, that the main question is what happens next, what happens when we vote on this point, how do we use what we're dealing with here in some way? I'd like to point you forward in some way. I do not want to deal with individual errors here, except in the case of infringements of the Rules of Procedure, but we should take advantage of the situation that is unpleasant. I knew she'd be uncomfortable. It may be even worse than I thought, but let's try to use this unpleasant situation here to do something good and let's see if we're able to restart and if we're able to return it 17 months ago to the moment when the President actually said - and she's already quoted it by our President of the club - that she wants to declare and that she promises literally that she will be a representative not only of her club but of all Members. That's what it said. It actually directed and determined the direction that each chairman of this Chamber should take, because when the Vice-Presidents then discussed, perhaps one of the objections to my person - I do not take it personally, it is a political struggle - was that I did not give enough attention to the opposition during the previous parliamentary term, that I was not impartial. So this is a relevant reason for criticising the President or the President of the Chamber of Deputies if he does not have a correct relationship with the opposition. I believe that communication with the opposition and some balance in the Chamber of Deputies is a fundamental task of the President or President of the Chamber of Deputies, who even exceeds any foreign appearance and public appearance. I remember, I also looked at the tapestry, that when I was elected, Miroslav Kalousek appeared and said that they did not vote for me, but that he congratulated me, he wished me a lot of strength and that he was ready for a constructive discussion about the exits from the House. That was Miroslav Kalousek's reaction to my election. I would also like to remind you that more than 30 years ago, Milan Uhde appeared here after his election. He said that the Chamber of Deputies was polarized - there were nine MPs at the time - but he hoped that his approach would be applied to the fact that the opposition and the coalition are only two arches of the Gothic vault that combine two opposite points but at the same time rely on each other, stick together and that they are not two separate elements. The greater the weight lies on them, the stronger the vault is. These are the words of Milan Uhde, a dramatist I still remember. We are in difficult times. There is a great weight on us, the Chamber of Deputies should be connected in fundamental matters, and the President of the Chamber of Deputies should be the last stone in the vault, which is the most burdened, which is the most important and without which it all falls apart. [[21.00 hours]] I don't really want to deal with individual violations of the Rules of Procedure. I just want to say that the pension amendment meeting was basically just a catalyst or the last drop that the atmosphere has been here for a long time. And if I may say so for myself, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will not bloom, and we, of course, are partly responsible - we are ready for discussion - but it is also your fault. And that is the point of today's debate, if we are capable of taking a certain self-esteem after this point, if you are capable of self-esteeming and if there is a chance of changing behavior in the Chamber of Deputies. And unfortunately, I didn't hear a hint of an effort to make a better deal from the individual odes I've been listening to here. I'm not a cadre, I just hate it. I'll avoid any personal attacks on the President. All I'm saying is that today's negotiations are the result of a long-term process, and this point is basically one of the desperate screams of the opposition, so you can start talking to us and take something out of it. I hope I won't reveal any secrets that we were already collecting signatures when Tomio Okamura couldn't speak until after 7:00 p.m., and it wasn't actually possible to continue the discussion. At that time, I believe Vice-President Skopeček was chairing - you made up the trick that something was filed in writing before 19 o'clock, and that it would therefore be put to the vote. Well, from my point of view, it was just unsportsmanlike - before you could admit that Tomio Okamura had done it and talked for x hours, so of course he took us, too, the YES movement, space, we wanted to debate - but we just have to admit it. It never happened for us, and we hesitated several times, didn't vote after 19 o'clock that we could go on and go home. Then a number of extraordinary meetings followed, where I said it - when the Presidents of the previous parliamentary term, the plaintiffs always called and at least asked out of decency: When would you like the extraordinary meeting? The fact that there are so-called "signing" meetings after half an hour at the time of Friday, when it is known that there will be virtually nothing discussed, is until it is devastating to the parliamentary minority. And the parliamentary minority here is cooking, cooking until it boiled in us, and it resulted in this proposal. The MP's arithmetic is relentless, we're not calling the President off today, we know that. But please, let us use this, say, crisis to move forward in some way. I had more examples prepared, I don't think that's necessary. I hope you've noticed why we're here from my point of view. I don't want to attack the President's person personally. I want to raise the subject so we can reboot after 17 months and start treating each other differently. I can't accept the parallels that were used here, like when I turned off Lubomír Volný. There is simply a difference when one Member fundamentally violates the Rules of Procedure, and when the Rules of Procedure violates the parliamentary majority and then turns off the leader of the opposition. Do you understand the huge difference that's made? Every analogy limps, but this one was extremely unhappy. I'm gonna end this speech here. I didn't make a disciplined statement because I didn't want to smash my speech and this basic message because I would get caught up in the way that my colleagues got involved, how your colleagues got involved. It doesn't do any good. I therefore propose as rapporteur - I have exercised my priority right - I will therefore bring forward the resolution, because I think it should be heard in the general debate. President Tomio Okamura said something, but he didn't exactly say it. I think it should be said on the microphone that the resolution which should be an expression of this point is: "The Chamber of Deputies withdraws from the office of President of the Chamber of Deputies, Ms Markéta Pekarová Adamová." That should be the resolution. Furthermore, I propose, because this is a personnel question, so that we return to the traditions that have been honored here, namely that personnel issues are being secretly voted on. I therefore propose that this vote be taken by secret ballot. That's all on my side. I will avoid the account of individual sins that I had prepared here. Please feel that we're not here, and we're not talking about the last meeting. We're talking about the fact that someone with priority rights has been disabled twice, once the entire House has been shut down. This is what I consider to be the biggest error of this leadership that has allowed the government to rise, to leave, and the President has turned off Parliament, that there has actually been an abuse of the resolution you have in your so-called golden book. This is something that must not happen, the Chamber of Deputies is over the government, and here there has been a violation of the very fundamental principles. We simply feel that the Prime Minister is a member of the government, acting as a member of the government. She's coming to the government's meeting. In short, she is the chairwoman of the TOP 09 party, who happens to be sitting in the chair. That's our problem, that's our emotion, that's our feeling, and that's why we initiated this point. And I'm saying again, it wasn't easy, I was just wondering if I was gonna sign it myself, and I'm not the only one in our club who thought it was really strong coffee. But how else are we supposed to tell you? So we would really like the President to start communicating with the opposition, to be the moderator of the debate, for example, to convene extraordinary meetings in a dignified manner, so that there is no longer a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure, and to stand up for us against the government, because every good President, President of the Chamber of Deputies, is to be stoned by the Prime Minister for not running at times in the Chamber of Deputies, as ministers wish, because that is what the Chamber of Deputies is from here and that is what the President or President of the Chamber of Deputies is from here. What prevails in our tradition is that the President of the Chamber of Deputies is a representative of the coalition. Perhaps twice it happened that he was a representative of the opposition, then this problem falls away. But please, we all wish that the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, however unevenly occupied - that is also what I wanted to say here - that Members should stand up for us against the Prime Minister. I am not surprised that the Prime Minister here praised the President, but the President of the House, the President of the House, is to defend his fellow Members and not to go to the Prime Minister's hand at all costs. And I personally know what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u75	Thank you. I am merely saying that I have registered the motion for a resolution, as have the motion for a vote. And now with another priority right, Mr. Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u76	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, many have been said here, yet allow me, as President of the KDU-ČSL, to comment briefly on the whole meeting and to express this, and I can say this at the outset, with clear support from President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. It is somewhat peculiar what my previous speaker, Mr Vondráček, has just said here about a reboot that calls for communication, and this reboot of this House's negotiations is a bit peculiarly imagining that we will begin by reading the resolution that the President of the Chamber of Deputies wants to withdraw. I actually did the whole meeting - and we read the different headlines today about some sort of aisle of shame and the like, which I consider completely inappropriate. This is exactly what, Mr Vondráček, through Madam President, gives rise to the atmosphere in which this House should not act, which is not worthy of it, and unfortunately it creates what we are witnessing here. [[21.10 hours]] The whole request is based on the fact that the President may have violated the Rules of Procedure or something like that in the incriminating meeting. I want to remind you again, the opposition has been made available - and now I'm sorry if it was 136 or 138 - hours of negotiations on one single point. I don't think we need to tell each other again how the time was used, or used to exceed the limits of legitimate obstruction options. Yes, the opposition may, and we know this, also belongs to some degree of political culture, express its disagreement with the points discussed by obstructions in the extreme situation to an extreme extent, but it is not possible for obstructions to go into destruction. Then, clearly, the right of the House of the majority is such destruction of a democratic political process here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to defend itself, and this is what the President has done. Allow me, too, to stand up for the President, to turn against the fact that perhaps she would not be a party to this House, that she would not defend the right of the opposition. I am part of, for example, the conduct of political grémia, always this meeting, if it is present in the House, the President, as you, my colleague, have been directing it, through Madam President, you as President, certainly in that past period, and we will always be able to reach consensus there. As a rule, negotiations are not heated there, and the President of the House is the moderator. I could go on reading this way. I'm a little sorry for what we're hearing here all the time: opposition is not heard, no one is communicating with us. That's not true. The convening of extraordinary meetings - these meetings do not call for their liking for the President to send it to us in a text message. Those dates are discussed with club presidents - maybe, I don't want to talk here, that it was so 100% in all cases, but I'm almost sure as club president that those dates are being consulted. And I believe that President Schillerová, who sits here in front of me, will also be consulted with the opposition to know where the meeting will take place. There's no stopping you from calling those meetings. If signatures are submitted, the meetings shall be convened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, i.e., according to the time limits in question. There's nothing we can do. But not communicating with each other isn't really true. If you look, in the end, how much is it? Ten days? Unfortunately, I wasn't here, but when an amendment to the construction law or a unified environmental position was being discussed. I could do other examples like that. Tomorrow we'll discuss the gracious summer of tax administrative executions. These are all things that are discussed, discussed. I think where there's a will, there's a way where there's a will, so there's a real go, and where we don't want to and where we want to - opposition, coalition - to play our political game, so then we play. And unfortunately, the moment it goes beyond any degree of decency, where it goes beyond the level of mutual respect, then unfortunately, it speaks of the atmosphere, the state, the relationship here in the House. I'm not happy either. And I would welcome, Mr Vondráček, through Madam President, the analogy from Milan Uhde. I remember him. I really like him. But friends, colleagues, co-workers, it's a thrown glove to everyone, even the opposition. Do you really see that we should be the arch where the staple, the central stone, is the chairman? Well, unfortunately, I'm feeling the feeling of today's debate, the emotional screams here at the counter, the impression, I admit, I don't always have. So if you really meant it, please let your opposition colleagues write this down and let us act accordingly to approach each other, with this respect, and we will certainly move forward with the political culture of this House. And in conclusion, let me say one more thing. I had the opportunity to visit not only Taiwan but South Korea a week ago, along with a member of the ANO movement, so I can share my personal experience with you. If someone represented as head of our delegation, which was President Pekarová Adamová, not herself, but this House, the Czech Republic, our diplomacy, it was she, with great class, with great grace. And I am quite sure that this journey was a contribution not only to the presentation of the House, our policy, our support for democracy, our support for freedom, our respect for human rights in Taiwan, but also to our entrepreneurs. It sounded from your mouth a lot of times. And those delegations, they weren't just those who traveled with us, they traveled there by many entrepreneurs on their own axis, and they repeatedly thanked for the very political support that, as I say, all the representatives of the entire delegation participated in. And I thank the Prime Minister for being, is, and will be, the representative of all of us. I can conclude, therefore, that the vote we are going to take on this resolution will certainly not have the support of the KDU-ČSL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u77	Thank you, too. By getting to the logged in properly, will I just make sure that I can delete, Mr rapporteur, your application for the current general debate? I just want to make sure. And please, with priority rights, okay. Please, Madam President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I didn't want to perform anymore and I will be really very brief, but I still have to respond to the words of President Marek Výborný, and I will not blame here in any way that never, ever, ever, ever, ever, be consulted on the date of an extraordinary meeting, never, ever, that we got 30 minutes to the Czech Post and so on. I'd find those sores here, but I don't want to whine, I don't want to complain. We humbly accept this role that we have here, but please again, I would like to draw your attention to the performance of my honored colleague Radek Vondráček. He said exactly that he would not read here the list of sins, Madam President, a list of errors, except for some exceptions, but that he wanted to think. And that would be - if he had fulfilled his purpose, I thank the pán bůh for this meeting, because another tangible result is without a doubt due to the distribution of forces in this House - when he said, Let us think further, let us think and learn. Here's some kind of atmosphere. The atmosphere isn't good, it's not workable except for exceptions. It's a humming ground. It's a collapsing ground where we fight. It is debilitating, and above all, it does not meet the goal that we should have, and that is what my colleague Radek Vondráček spoke about in very wise words when he was quoting Mr. Milan Uhde here, whom I'm sure most of us remember very well. And I call once again, because the distribution of forces is clear, Madam President will stand up to this role. We didn't believe for a second that it could be any different, but we did it anyway, and yet we wanted to draw attention to these things. It's not about one doing the same thing and the other doing something else to make us feel bad about it for three hours. This is about the fact that when the House is blocked, it doesn't work and it doesn't pass the points, so someone runs the House, someone builds the program. And I don't care that the five-wheelers are sitting over it, I don't care - the House is being run by someone and should think meaningfully: we're going to discuss points that have at least some primary consensus that we know won't block the House, and then we're just looking for a way, we're going to have some dialogue and some debate over points that, of course, are politically conflicting. That's our job, that's what the House is about, that's what the cooperation Radek Vondráček was talking about, and the politically responsible person sits at the head of the House. That's what we wanted to tell you today during those three hours in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u79	Thank you, too. Mr Miloš nový is now registered. We are rushing towards the end of the general debate. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u80	Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, honourable Members, in connection with the attempt to withdraw from the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, by the opposition movement YES and the SPD, as a theoretical economist, I am thinking of the connection of this attempt with institutional economy, which is one of the economic theories for which four Nobel Prizes have been awarded in the past. Institutional economics, among other things, deals with the role of so-called formal and informal institutions in terms of economic growth, i.e. the success or failure of economic policy. By definition, we understand any restrictions that shape the economic behaviour of individuals, including, among other things, the constitution, laws, regulations, etc., customs, customs, traditions, ways and standards of action among informal institutions. It turns out that the importance of formal institutions that can be changed relatively quickly is much less than that of informal institutions that have been developing for decades or centuries. Institutional economics proves that countries that do not respect these restrictions do not have a long-term chance of prospering. A concrete example can be the failure of German unification after 1989, which, even after more than 30 years since the start of the unification process, has not brought the desired success for the new federal states of the former German Democratic Republic. How did one and the same rules that led to economic and social success in the western part of the country fail completely in the case of its eastern part? It turns out that this is the very reason for the different standards of behaviour and behaviour of the Western and Eastern Němec that arose during the German division. What applies to national economies can also be applied in much smaller entities, such as the Chamber of Deputies. It is also limited by formal institutions, such as the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and by informal institutions, i.e. patterns of conduct and behaviour of individual Members. In a situation where protesting opposition Members literally occupied and refused to leave the House, both formal institutions of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the Rules of Procedure, and institutions of informal, i.e. the standards of decent and cultured negotiations, were violated in the negotiation of a law slowing the extraordinary valorisation of retirement pensions. It is a paradox today that those who have broken all that they could have broken are now demanding the resignation of the one who, on the contrary, insisted on complying with the established rules. If we had accepted these new rules of the game in quotation marks and called off Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová as President of the Chamber of Deputies, we would have trampled on the healthy institutional foundations on which our free and democratic House was founded after 1989. At the same time, we would jeopardize all the good things that depend on prosperity and the wealth of modern and advanced societies. It is therefore necessary to reject the proposal in its entirety. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u81	Thank you, too. With a factual point, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is reporting. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask the sněmovna to keep it down. We're in advanced times, but I'm sure we can handle a decent room for discussion. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u82	Thank you. Madam President, I will not use two whole minutes. I just want to remind you that the Constitution speaks that we carry out our mandate on our own. You are saying that you are not violating anything, however, several Members have been denied their mandate and have been making proposals at the meeting we are discussing almost all evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u83	Thank you. Now will I just ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask for an interest in the final word? [[- I don't.]] It's not. So we will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask if there is an interest in speaking in detail in the debate? [[Mr Vondraček: Yes.]] The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u84	Thank you for the floor. I'll admit I'm a little unsure. I will repeat the resolution and the fact that a motion for a secret vote has been made. So the resolution was: "The Chamber of Deputies withdraws from the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies to Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-008-143.u85	Thank you, too. I will just formally ask whether there is still an interest in the debate in detail? This is not the case, I am ending the debate. I'll call a colleague and colleagues from the gong hall. Interested in the final word again, for the record? [[Mr Vondráček: No.]] It's not. You want to unsubscribe, I checked them all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. First of all, we need to vote on the way in which we are going to vote. I shall recapitulate, the rapporteur has made a proposal for us to vote in secret. The numbers have stabilized. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of us voting secretly? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In vote number 34, 169 Members and Members were enrolled, for secret ballot 72, against 73. This proposal was rejected. So the way we vote will remain public. Once again, I will bring forward the motion for a resolution on which we will vote. It reads: "The Chamber of Deputies withdraws from the post of President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová." Initiating vote. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Let him press the button, too. In this vote, number 35, 169 Members voted in favour of 72, against 97. The motion for a resolution has not been approved. So we've discussed this point, and I'm ending it. I'm interrupting our meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow, and I wish everyone a peaceful evening.
