ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Third reading I would like to ask Martin Baxa, the Minister of Culture, to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and also the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Election Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník - he is also present, excellent. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 263/3, which was delivered on 17 January 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 263/4. I will make one more apology when Mr Hayato Okamura apologizes from 12 o'clock on account of a foreign trip. Will I ask the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u2	Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, we are discussing a draft amendment to the law at third reading today...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u3	I understand completely, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues, please transfer your calls to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. In the third reading today we are discussing a proposal to amend the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act, whose sole aim is to involve the Senate in the system of election of members of public media councils. [[9.10 hours]] The bill strengthens the independence and stability of the public service media, namely the abolition of the collective appeal of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. The Guarantee Election Committee recommended the adoption of its own amendments to the Act concerning the renaming of the Election Committee, the unification of the text of the Czech Radio Act with the Czech Television Act, as regards the staff of the Director General at the end of his duties, and the performance and termination of his duties and removal from the post of Director General of the Czech Radio. I agree with these proposals. In the second reading of the law, I applied my own amendment to update the date of application of the law on the 15th day following its publication. Mr Ondřej Babka has applied his own amendment to postpone the effectiveness of the law until 1 January 2024, which we do not agree with, as the Government has already committed itself in the programming declaration to involve the Senate in the election of board members in 2022. The amendment setting out a qualified majority of members of the Board for the appointment and dismissal of directors-general of the public media was proposed by Mr Aleš Juchelka, together with Mr Martin Kolovratník. I do not agree with this proposal, but I agree with the proposal of the Members of Jan Lacina and Martin Kolovratník, who will set up a qualified majority of the members of the Board only for the appeal of the Directors-General. I also agree with Mr Lubomír Brož's amendment on an obsolent provision on the election of members of their councils every two years. As a representative of the draft bill, I therefore recommend that it be approved in the wording of the amendments to the electoral committee, my amendment and amendments to the Members of Jan Lacina and Lubomír Brož. Thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, prepared to respond to specific questions and comments that will be raised during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. I would like to add that, given today's apologies, it has become clear that Mr Tomio Okamura's apology does not apply. Apparently there's been some kind of technical error. Now, since we are at the third reading, I am opening up a debate in which I have a number of Members who have priority rights and, of course, in the third reading debate, the rapporteur may also speak as he needs to. President Alena Schillerová is the first with priority rights. Vice-President Karel Havlíček may be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, the MP's silenced and the voices in the hall are silent.]] Thank you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister. I must begin by saying that I am constantly surprised by the priorities of this government coalition. We have record inflation, the highest number of people at risk of poverty, we lack basic medicines, we have the most expensive energy in the EU from the point of view of purchasing power and we have a really big problem in the car industry, to which almost half a million employees are connected. However, none of this is interesting enough for the government to deal with it. If it were, we would now be discussing completely different topics here. But they don't care. So we can't be surprised that according to STEM's current research, the public has been looking with the greatest concerns into the future since 2012. For 11 years, our society has not been as pessimistic to the future as it is under the leadership of this government. And I'm not surprised. Instead of discussing how it can help people or entrepreneurs, what they can do for the Czech Republic in the future, the government is only looking for ways to patch up the troubles that it has made. And because they've been clueless from the start, they've chosen the worst method of all, and they throw their troubles at people, often even by moving on the edge of the law. Let us remember yesterday's discussion. And it's gonna be big next week. How else can you explain the scam with the change in pension valorisation? How do you explain the planned increase in real estate tax or plans to raise social contributions for businessmen? And all of this without making it clear how they plan to help people too, how they get the huge inflationary revenue that the government collects, how they need to get it back. Instead of looking for money anywhere but in people's pockets, the government focuses only on people's wallets. She volunteered to cut a 14 billion-dollar EET income, left huge profits to energy companies, looking for a way to cut gambling taxes, the finance minister forgot to ask for $54 billion from the EU to cash in, making it sticky with national money. That's how Petr Fiala's government works throughout its existence. Instead of law for people, the government and the House devote energy to similar regulations like this, which we have here today in the third reading, i.e. laws that could easily wait. There's nothing we can do to help people by approving them. We won't even help the economy. The only person he will help is a number of political parties who see the opportunity to expand or consolidate their power and influence in the approval of similar standards. Yes, this law could have waited. Or, in fact, this law should have waited. If the government does not want to promote further discussion on the independence of Czech Television, it does not want to permanently damage the credibility of this institution, it should not attempt such a change right now. We should not be allowed to do that before the election of the CEO of Czech Television. We all feel that the choice of CEO is the main reason why this law needs to be discussed before it begins. And this government, which already controls the House today, the Senate, has been elected a pro-government candidate for the Castle, so it simply wants to control the media of the public service and to keep an eye on the choice of CEO. Allow me to return to the past period for a moment, until the previous years, when I was not a Member, but, of course, as Finance Minister, I watched closely the events in the House. And I remember very well how the opposition, today's government coalition, accused everyone of trying to dominate the public service media many times, as there were words about the threat of democracy and there were many other similarly strong statements. I think it's clear now that it was only opposition political proclamation and unauthorized haunting of the public and the media. During the entire last parliamentary term, no such efforts have been made and have not been made. Yes, it was likely that people who were not your candidates came to the council, you did not agree with their views, but were democratically elected. They were democratically elected according to clear rules. That's it. You, too, would be able to reselect members of media councils according to whose views you are closer to. I don't even think we would have treated it obstructively like you did in the last year of the past period. If I recall correctly, you regularly made the choice impossible by continuous obstructions. But you don't want to take a gradual democratic path. And let's see how it really is. If that's what bothers you, then you're just against democracy. Democracy is about two or more different opinions standing next to each other, and they all have the same weight. Democracy is not that there is only one right, your current of opinion and all those who do not share it must be trampled into the ground. [[9.20 hours]] I feel that by this law you are introducing moreses into the Czech Republic, which you like to criticize yourself at a time when they do them in some other countries, such as Hungary. And I add a touch of irony - and Patrik Nacher, now I don't see him here, he'll be glad - that this is such an exemplary example of double standards and the concept of your better democracy. Your proposal to change the election of members of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio is unhappy, especially because you place your and power interests above the needs of these media. There is no rational reason for the division of members to be divided between the Senate and the House. On the contrary, the government coalition is sending us on this path towards Eastern European media systems. While, for example, the German media system, which, by the way, was one of the main models of the Czech media system, strengthens the non-political representation of council members, this is where the House takes the exact opposite path. And you have to ask - why? And I'm willing to offer an answer that I don't think is too far from the truth. The only reason for this is the fact that the Senate has long been in control of five-calice parties, which is especially important for you now, when the Czech Television Council awaits the election of the CEO. But I would still be able to understand and respect that as the intention of the ruling majority, it is legitimate, even though I do not agree with it. But it was your government that made a commitment in the programming declaration to support the public service media and seek their stability. This step as well as your other proposals are going in a completely, completely backward direction. I would understand if you were dealing with the real issues of the public service media. Like their funding, or what their role is in the time of the Internet, or what services are designed to strengthen or weaken. Instead, you are dealing with newsrooms and ways to treat the director of Czech Television and Czech Radio! Let us address key issues, such as how to solve support for film and Czech production. Let's discuss how to solve media support issues. Let us ask the Minister of Finance whether it is a really good idea to raise VAT to the printed media right now. There's a lot of problems on the media scene. But let us not go the way of authoritarian states. There's a lot of problems on the media scene that you don't solve and you don't care. So I would understand if, like in other countries, you were looking for a way to help the media, which, like other fields, are facing rising energy prices if you wanted to help the film industry or simply solve real problems. But I'm afraid all of this isn't important to you. You just want to influence the media. And I have to conclude that I believe in the power of public media. I've always communicated with journalists, I've always treated them fairly and openly, and I believe that even if you want to get them wrapped up in this way, they'll be against maintaining their independence. I just believe it. And I'd like to ask you to do it, too. If our reasoning is wrong, wait for the adoption of this law. If this isn't about the CEO's choice, there's no rush. In conclusion, I will return to what I said at the outset. Dear government, five-wheelers, solve the problems facing you and as a result of which people and companies simply barely survive. Solve these things instead of trying to strengthen power and influence yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u7	I thank you and with another application is President Tomio Okamura, then with priority... So President Tomio Okamura is present and next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's five-calice wants power over the Czech TV. It is another attack on democracy and opinional pluralism. ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN plan to approve the amendment of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act here in the House today. With this law, the government coalition wants to change the way in which public media control councils are elected so that, in future, only a third of them are elected by the Senate, where the government coalition has a majority, while now they are elected by the House, which, given the size of citizens' electoral participation, is the only representative picture of the public's views, i.e. concessionaires, or concession fee payers. Just for comparison, in the elections to the House, the electoral participation of citizens is about 60 percent, now it was even more, while in the Senate elections in the second round of Senate elections, senators vote basically around 10 percent and fewer citizens. The point is that Petr Fiala's government from the ODS wants to complete the political domination and occupation of public media control boards by this law, thereby ensuring for a long six years the dominant influence on the broadcasts of Czech Television and Czech Radio, particularly in the field of news and current publicity. The councilmen are elected for just six years. The five-calice takes steps to control these media so that only pro-government and pro-EU views are broadcast here, and that only those who hold consent are dominantally invited to these media, while restricting the presentation of opposition views. This is how they want to influence elections. This, of course, is totally unacceptable for the SPD, because we are promoting freedom and democracy. The Senate has minimal support and trust of citizens, and individual senators represent only a total minority of the public. Similarly, it is unacceptable for us to accept the proposed restriction on the range of subjects that will be able to propose to members of media councils only for organisations that have existed for more than ten years. This is a discriminatory measure that clearly favours political non-profit organisations linked to the parties of the current government five-wheeler and, on the contrary, disadvantageous SPD movement, which has existed for eight years. That is why the members of the SPD will try to block the adoption of this proposal with all possible legal means. There really is no need, and it wouldn't be right to step on the spot. We need to say out loud and frankly what the Fialův coalition is about. They want to control the media and clog people's mouths with censorship. There is a real transition from the so-called semi-democratic system to the autocratic totalitarian government of coalition oligarchy. There is no doubt that the Brussels lobby already has full control of public media, of course, but the current monopoly on the power of Parliament and in the media must be clearly strengthened and insured from the point of view of the Fialův Government. And today, among other things, three more paid seats for candidates of the government coalition will be used for a higher control of the election of the new CEO of Czech Television in the spring of this year. [[9.30 hours]] I read somewhere that this proposal is thoughtless and expensive because it increases the number of councillors of Czech Television. The author of this statement is cardinally mistaken because it is undoubtedly a thoughtful move, which, for millions of crowns, will strengthen the power of the selected lobby under the baton of the government's five-calice over the Czech Television and Czech Radio. The aim of the Purple Government Coalition, namely this law, is under the baton of the Minister of Culture Baxa of the ODS, so that the new, government coalition rigged by the council would form a protective wall against any attempts to balance the broadcasts of Czech Television and to make it efficient. Not long ago, a few councillors tried to make some changes to higher control and responsibility, and we know how hysterically horrified it was on the public and political scene by the exponents of the government's five-calice. The strengthening of the monopoly on controlling the leadership of Czech Television and Czech Radio will, of course, only strengthen the submission of the councillors and directors of Czech Television, who will know that the hopes of truly independent people sitting on the board who hold opinions other than those of the five-calices do not stand a chance and that the attempt to resist is always doomed. It's basically the same model that the Fialův government is promoting against street people. He who opposes will destroy it either economically or, worse, by means of criminalization. Czech Television and Radio Councilmen are supposed to represent all the main opinion spectrum in our country, so the law says. Of course, Minister Baxa of the ODS doesn't care at all. The effort of the government coalition is simply to prevent it from happening. The Senate, as we know, today represents really only one pro-brussels and pro-American opinion. And the truth is that most senators themselves represent almost no one. This is where I compare with the Chamber of Deputies. Senators are elected by slim percentages and represent basically the only monopoly view and ideology at the moment. In essence, this amendment of the law imposed by the Fialův Government contradicts the spirit of the Czech Television Act and the spirit of democracy. It lies not only in the government of the people and the majority, but also in listening and respect for the opinion of others and in the share of administration for representatives of the political minority. Which is, in quotes, a nice paradox and a demonstration of hypocrisy, that those who claim to enforce so-called minority rights in real political practice are destroying any rights of the minority. It is, of course, that the so-called rights of minorities to you, honourable government Members, really serve only to suppress the rights of the normal majority and the political opposition. Think of the fact that the patience of citizens with totalitarian governments is not infinite. Think about it, because when the patience breaks, then the Czech Television won't help you. And let's see what the situation in the Czech Republic and here in the Chamber of Deputies is like today. So the government of Petr Fiala, the coalition of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN are here to promote and spend long hours here, and we are going to spend a long time here because of the Fialův coalition, so they are promoting the political domination of Czech Television, and they are now promoting the amendment of the electoral law to a correspondence choice, and they are pushing for a reduction in pensions, a reduction in the promised valorisation of all pension recipients. On the other hand, the SPD wants pensions to increase, so that people get the promised valorisation. We want people to be helped with expensive energy. We want the government to deal with expensive food, and we also want to deal with expensive housing, and we also want to deal with the fact that the government has not yet ensured the availability of basic medicines. So here you can see in direct contrast what the SPD promotes and what the priorities of the Fialův government are. And I think that this is truly unacceptable for most citizens in the Czech Republic, what the government of Petr Fiala is doing here. That's why we're going to have a long talk about this law here today, too, because we're going to explain to you that it's wrong that the priority of Fialův's five-calice government is to politically control Czech television, that you want to reduce people's pensions, that you don't want to deal with expensive food, that you don't want to deal with the availability of medicines, that you don't want to deal with expensive energy and so on. And that it is wrong that, on the contrary, your priority is to control Czech television politically and that you want people to have expensive food. Today, the food is more expensive in the Czech Republic than in Germany, Austria and Poland. Even your candidate for President Petr Pavel goes to Poland to buy food, so he already laughs in Poland, we all laugh, there are banners flying around the internet. On my own - from the Polish side I got these banners in Polish, when they mock the president you already proposed, who, instead of starting negotiations with you, when he was your candidate, and so to pressure you, his partners, means the government's five-calice, so you can finally deal with the expensive food, so he goes to Poland and actually pours money into Poland instead of supporting the Czech Republic and our citizens. This really gets us into the cathouse, we get into an incredibly grim situation caused by the government of Petr Fiala. That means, of course, that you - the situation is that Fialův's five-police government already believes a little over 20 percent of citizens today, according to the survey. Only. Just over 20 percent of the citizens. And it's your style, because I know you from the House, of course. I know how you think. You are the classic career politicians, when basically you, instead of starting to work for citizens and trying to improve their lives, tried to reverse your preferences, so you are hardening up and trying to defend yourself with undemocratic methods both by broadcasting Czech Television and Czech Radio, and of course you want to amend the electoral law because you simply lack voters. And instead of convincing those voters in some way to do a positive job, you just want to change all the laws available so that you can manipulate it in some way and somehow just bend it, the current situation in the Czech Republic, which is bent to its advantage. So it's just that we don't agree with this approach. And I believe that citizens will see it, because, as we know, of course, there's energy costs coming to people today. The citizens are really frustrated about the current situation of the cost that you are not dealing with. Here I would just remind you that the Czech Republic under the leadership of the Fialův Government is the only country that has increased public debt for the last reference period, that is the third quarter of last year. These are the figures of the European Statistical Office, Eurostat. That means, that kind of talk in Ukraine, that's a lie, of course. That, of course, is the expert here in this lie, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, because, of course, if it were the situation around Ukraine, then other countries in the European Union would also increase their public debt. But she's only the Czech Republic. That means you're actually the worst compared to Europe. And it is also proven here in the European comparison that it is indeed the worst government that currently rules here in those countries of the European Union. So this needs to be noted. And otherwise I'd like to conclude this performance, because we're still going to perform, so I'd like to comment on the opening excess that happened here in the House's leadership, because I was here to my unkind surprise - the House's leadership said in the morning that I'm sorry, from the House's leadership, from 12.30 to two days on a foreign trip. But I didn't apologize at all. We didn't apologize. So I'd like to ask that the House's leadership be competent here, because he apologized to my brother, who's from KDU-ČSL. We didn't apologize. So I got an immediate call from a number of citizens, and they said why am I going on a foreign trip when important laws are being dealt with here? [[9.40 hours]] So I want to point out here, and I must say to Vice President Richterová, by your means, that the way you tried to correct it, that there was a technical error... What kind of technical error did I make? No, you don't. We didn't make any technical mistakes because we didn't give any of my apologies and we don't have representation in the House's leadership. You're there, you're responsible. So I'd like you to really get it right and not damage the SPD and my person in this way. Because I'm here properly at work, there's definitely no technical error on our part. I know it could happen, like somebody missed it. But I would like you, Mrs Richterová, Vice-President of the House, not to apologize to this place as if it were a technical mistake on our part. So let me get this straight: I didn't apologize and that there was some mistake with you, the House's leadership or somewhere else, and you should apologize to me for this mistake in the first place - not some technical error. So keep these excuses to yourself and face this next time. I didn't apologize or be on any foreign trip from any House meeting. I wasn't on a foreign trip, and I'm not planning a foreign trip today or tomorrow. So if you're gonna apologize, just say it on the record and don't say it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. It has been clarified that the President is not excused. According to my information, there's been some kind of behind-the-scenes click. Yes, it's actually a mistake at the level of, say, the clerk, we apologize for that. There have been further apologies, namely Mrs Romana Fischerová, for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Josef Kott from 10 to 11.30 hours for work reasons, and Mr Jan Richter from 10.30 to 10.30 hours for work reasons. Now another with priority rights, which has been passed on because the Member represents the President of his club. Mr Radek Rozvoral is registered. Then the application ends with priority rights and we get to the logged in on the board. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government, the government's proposal to amend the laws on Czech Television and Czech Radio is a completely unsystemic, illogical and politically purposeful step. In addition, at a time when the debt of the state is growing record and even the current CEO of Czech Television, Petr Dvořák announced redundancies and financial cuts. Also, a step pointlessly and unjustifiedly costly and a proposal extremely irresponsible. There is no need to walk tiringly around the bush and take seriously the government's phrase that it is an effort and strengthening the independence of the public media and their supervisory authorities. For example, the increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council from the current 15 to the government proposed by 18 is nothing more than an unhidden attempt by the government coalition to ensure a comfortable majority in the control body of public television, which will decide this year who will be the new CEO of this public service media. In this context, let us remember that in the spring of last year, the government and its Minister of Culture planned to dissolve the Czech Television Council with an amendment to the law, to adopt new rules for the election of councillors, and then, according to them, Members and Senators will elect a complete new Council of Czech Television according to the political ideas of the Fialův Government. It would be nothing more than a counter-constitutional coup. After the great pressure and negative opinions of many lawyers from this outrageous plan, we have a slightly different alternative, whose objective is identical. It is the mastery of public media councils by loyal people, i.e. the political control of Czech Radio and Czech Television. Thus, the goal of which the years have been falsely accused of their political opponents, and they are now doing it themselves in practice. It's a classic example of the hypocrisy of this government and the parties to this government coalition. I would like to quote the statement of a member of the electoral committee of the Chamber of Deputies, who has a media issue in his opinion, Jan Lacina of the STAN movement for the Media server from June 21st last year. I quote: "Senators will choose their three representatives on the television board as soon as the amendment is in force. Then, at the nearest end of the present councillors, they choose the second Trinity. It's already 12-6 and every two years the senators choose their two representatives and the House four." End of quote. So the timeline is also important. A government amendment to the law could come into effect according to five coalition plans at the beginning of this year. Next thing you know, five-calice government senators could choose their three television councillors. Their total will increase to 18. This could happen sometime in the spring of this year, which will be enough for these new councillors to participate in the election of the CEO of Czech Television, because the current mandate expires in September 2023. It is already said that at the beginning of the summer of this year will be the choice of the new CEO of Czech Television. This is also the main reason why, instead of increasing the number of television councillors, the government will not suggest, for example, that part of the councillors would choose the Senate only after the mandate of three existing television councillors has ended. This would have some logic, although this would be unacceptable for us as an SPD, but it would not have fulfilled the main intention of this government to achieve a sufficient majority in the Czech Television Council to ensure the choice of the new CEO. This is also intended to be insured by the fact that the simple majority of the members of the television control board should be sufficient to elect the Director-General of Czech Television, while the majority is now qualified, i.e. two-thirds, to do so. While the existing law envisages that the CEO of Czech Television must be elected 10 votes out of 15, that is a two-thirds majority, his amended version works with a simple majority of votes, i.e. again 10 votes, but out of a total of 18, i.e. a significantly lower share, to elect the CEO. The same should be the case with the Czech Radio, when the total number of votes needed to be elected and the appeal of its Director-General should be reduced. The original proposal provided for these cases with an increase in the special concession from the current 6 votes to 7. According to the new draft, the majority of all the radio councillors, i.e. five votes, are expected to do so at once. It is quite obvious that the government coalition is not about the independence of Czech Television, its transparency and financial stability, as often government officials speak of it falsely, but only about itself and its own political benefits, and that it should control public media, especially Czech Television, for many more years, and that it should be only government or government-paid and binding television councillors who decide who will be the leader of our politically and socially most influential media for the next six years. Thus, the government wants to take over the top management of public television for more than one parliamentary term, thereby insureing itself of a privileged position in the news and publicity of public media, for a reason and purposeless change in the rules of choice of public media control bodies. So she does exactly what she wrongly blamed others for years. The original amendment proposed by the Ministry of Culture last March envisaged the maintenance of 15 members of the Czech Television Supervisory Board, in which Members would vote for 10 members and Senators 5. The current proposal will therefore, among other things, significantly burden the Czech Television budget by having to pay three other councillors and their respective costs from their salaries. This doesn't seem to be the same as the government's fake worries about the management of Czech television. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the government amendment is not based on a detailed evaluation of its content and timing of anything other than the preservation of Czech television and also the Czech Radio as a power instrument in the hands of political parties, which form the current government and the government coalition, political parties that are concerned with controlling these public media and their supervisory councils, so much that none of the main attributes of the free and democratic political regime are trodden in the election in personnel matters. We witnessed this here in the House on this occasion. It is extremely reasonable to believe that those who, in such a fundamental way, repeatedly violate fundamental democratic principles in an attempt to strengthen and preserve their political power over public media will not be embarrassed to break these principles, including the principles and values of free political competition, freedom of expression or political pluralism, over and over again. For example, it is by directing the public service media and by directing them to decide and influence the political situation in our country. And that has nothing to do with freedom and democracy anymore. On the contrary, it would be a return to a regime that was neither free nor democratic. The SPD MP club therefore clearly rejects the submitted government proposal as completely incompatible with the constitutional system of parliamentary democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, too. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Jan Jakob. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond briefly to my previous speakers with priority rights. What they were saying here is more about their attitude and perception of the world, which scares me with some than about the nature of this novel. This amendment is based on a long discussion that has basically lasted for decades, both at political level and at expert level in particular. It has been many years since the Senate first came up with a proposal to divide the influence of the Chamber of Deputies on the choice of these two media councils. Then there were a number of other initiatives that approached, for example, the Bavarian model, when they appoint representatives of various kinds in the law of the listed organization from those political to various civil associations. Of course, many approaches we know from the world were taken into account in this long discussion, whether it is a British model that would not have passed with us, and I would have understood some of the words that were spoken here, after the Bavarian one I mentioned a while ago. So there's really been a long discussion before, this is the climax. It's not the pleasure of this government that suddenly wants to change things radically. And we all know that in the long term, the main argument in this debate is that media councils are not so dependent on the current composition of the Chamber of Deputies. Madam President Schillerová said this is not the time. If we came up with this in six months, it wouldn't be the right time, either, because something she thinks is important is going to happen, in a year it wouldn't be the right time and we would want to buy the media public before the election, so it would never happen. And the arguments that were raised by her are more likely to indicate how the YES movement is thinking about it. It is their President, who owns - through a trust fund of course - the media large house and the ANO movement, of course, uses its media influence. Finally, and we have an example here, no doubt we will be dealing with this soon, in the Council for Radio and Television, where the parliamentary clubs are nominated - well, I am sending it, there is another system - so that their nominee then serves, if I am to use the words of the former Vice-President of your movement, clearly serves the interests of the political party when it operates in their electoral staffs, is an advisor to the Vice-President, their Vice-President of the House or their assistant to another Member. That's how you can see the ANO movement's approach to the media, unlike us. I'm not surprised by what was coming out of the mouth of SPD officials, but it doesn't stop scaring me. Those words about semi-democracy, about totalitarian rule, about political domination, about gaining political power, that's something that's unimaginable to me, and that kind of approach once again only proves how they think. The fact that the SPD is unable to get a senator is her problem, and they should think about it. Seriously, about what was said here. So, of course, the amendment increases the independence of these two media public services to political power, to the power of this House, to its current composition, because it divides the choice into the second chamber of Parliament. And notaben, and I would like to draw your attention to that, because of the amendment, it will fall or be cancelled in Section 6, paragraph 3, and I consider this to be absolutely essential. That paragraph 3 of the present text reads as follows: The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Council has repeatedly failed to fulfil its obligations under this law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual report on the activities of Czech Television or the annual report on the management of Czech Television, it is similar with the radio. I consider this to be absolutely crucial that the House, political power, will not, as it pleases, what the current composition of the Chamber of Deputies will be, withdraw the whole council and choose it according to its wishes. [[Option]] And that is important, and none of you can doubt that this is a step, a significant and crucial step in making the public service media more independent of political power. And on a case-by-case basis, to the number of members. The SPD here argues that there will be three more councillors in the Czech Television Council. You have to think about it a little bit mathematically, it's not complicated numbers, even though I understand that they can cause problems for someone. This option, when two-thirds of the members vote for the House, one-third vote for the Senate, and at the same time we have a six-year cycle where every two years they alternate or those representatives vote, doesn't actually allow mathematically, if we want the system to be clear, transparent, transparent, different variants than multiples of nine. If one of my colleagues doesn't understand, then I'll explain it in detail in clear numbers, but please try to think about it. In conclusion, I am very glad that this amendment is here, is the result of many years of discussion, expert discussion on how to increase the independence of the public service media, and I firmly believe that we will approve it here and that we will move democracy, access to the public service media a little further away, and I want to be told by the twenty-first century, because the system, as it is set up, is still from the nineties of the last century. So thank you very much, and please, to argue the facts here and not just to live in the perception that, naturally, is deeply experienced on some sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. And I have a priority right here with the club's opinion of the MP... [[Reports in plenary that the facts take precedence.]] Really. You're right. Really. It was here at the last minute. I'll ask Mrs Peštová. And by the way, I'm just going to point out that blue number 6 is newly indicated on the board, how many are actual. So, Mrs Peštová, then Mr Ondřej Babka will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I didn't apply now, but long before that, but it doesn't matter. I would like to respond to Mr Jakob and to his beautiful speech here. You say how beautifully discussed it was, discussed. In any case, this amendment, when it went to the Legislative Council of the Government, I feel that the Legislative Council of the Government, and correct me if I am wrong, has returned this proposal to you with the fact that it is unconstitutional. You've made some changes, of course, to remove the unconstitution. I want to ask if you then put in a shortened inter-departmental commentary procedure, because you here call on how you communicate, how you want to communicate with the public, and not just to the public, but to all those concerned, so if you put it in a shortened inter-departmental commentary procedure after the unconstitutionality was removed. First of all. Also, if you're saying here, how did you discuss and what else did you put in there, where do you have your licence fees covered? Because there are already various waves of people who say they don't want to pay Czech TV because it is undemocratic because it is not balanced, information is not balanced, on the contrary, it only leaves one side, see for example elections and so on. So I'm also curious, why didn't you bother with this and push only what you like? And you like the fact that we're going to extend the board to three people so we can have the upper hand. And that's the only reason you're pushing this novel. That's all I could find in the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u15	Thank you very much for keeping time. Now, Mr Ondřej Babka, with a point of fact, will prepare Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I will also respond to President Jakob. Mr President, really, and you're dealing with the media, you're sitting on that committee, and you really want to argue here, as you said, that the outcome of a long-term discussion of media laws is this law? This law, which only, the only thing it introduces, is that it changes the number of councillors on Czech television? That's all he does. From 15 raises it to 18 and changes the call for appointment of the Director-General. And yes, and the jamming of that section that we can call off the whole board. But at the same time, you're here, and we all know that you're still holding the council hostage because you recommended not to approve two annual reports on the election committee. So, if you happen to fail to enforce this law, then, of course, you still have the fact that, according to the current text, you can withdraw the council as a whole because you voted against two annual reports in the electoral committee. You're saying, I'm still going to do it in my speech, that you don't live in our world, the way we think here. And I've been saying this since the fall of last year that you're trying to push through this law quickly. And we really don't mind, it's your political decision if you want to split the choice between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. So be it, it's your decision. But it bothers us the timing and the fact that we meet here at an emergency meeting in the House Week on Wednesday, at an emergency meeting with one single point, so it proves exactly that you need to make it to the election of the Director General, whose tender is now announced. It's all there is to it. And it really isn't the end of a long-term discussion of the media issue, as you said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u17	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual response to Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's debate, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u18	Good morning. I would also like to respond to Mr Jakob, by your means, Madam President. If there's supposedly been a ten-year discussion here about the need to change this law, then I'm asking, why hasn't it waited that year? After all, the Ministry of Culture is preparing a big amendment to this law, and there was enough time to discuss it enough, and not that it is pushing in this way very quickly. The law has many mistakes that I will speak of in my speech. And of course it stinks and only confirms that you want to dominate the choice of director of Czech Television. You just don't talk shit around here. And you can scream all you want, Minister. Mr Jakob, through Madam President, can throw his hands around, bang on the table. It's just reality. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now with his de facto Member, Patrik Nacher. Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. I've known my colleague Jakob for quite a while. I feel like he can't even believe what he said. I would recommend here that we have a lie detector for those who will perform here, those who have been connected, and we've had a flash here somewhere, if they believe what they're saying. Because what was said here by Honza Jakob is absolutely unbelievable for me. For example, the idea that we would criticize it, even if you brought it up at any time, in six months' time. Well, that's not true. Because if you had given it in six months, we would have criticized the content, but not the fact that you are in a hurry to influence the already announced choice of director of Czech Television. I mean, it's happening here, I'd call you such a government of retroactivity, retroactivity, that you've actually gone to a announced tender... Or, Minister, tell the microphone that this competition will no longer apply. So you're actually changing things at the last minute or ex-post to influence things that are already going on. We talked about it last night. And it's going to be next week's pension valorization. Now it's the choice of the television director and the sudden change that's going on in an emergency meeting. Well, give it six months. That's not gonna happen. What's the problem? Please answer the microphone to the question why it can't be in six months. We're not gonna agree to that in terms of content. But it's gonna be a content debate. But it won't be that you want to influence something that's running. So, please, nicely, stop this retroactivity. There will be building savings before us, there will also be a retrospective change in running contracts. That means this is some kind of operating principle that I don't really agree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u21	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, President Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u22	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would also respond to my previous speaker, Mr Jakob, regarding the ownership of the media in Mr. Andrej Babiš's custody fund. You're not serious, are you, colleague? When you look at the assessment of the citizens that were taking place and the evaluation of foreign media agencies, it was the worst that Czech TV came out as a tender one. And this media was one of those that was at the very end of the evaluation that it would in any way support one of the candidates. So I'm just here to get back to your public confusion as it is here. You're always trying to say that we're influencing something, and the only one who's doing it is you, and you're still not doing enough. So if we just deal with numbers and foreign independent agencies, then the media that once belonged to a colleague is one of the right ones, the one that didn't favor anyone, so we certainly couldn't influence it. So please, while you're on that budget committee, at least keep to the facts. 'Cause if there's anything I hate about numbers and stuff like that, it's fantasmagory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. And now, President Alena Schillerová, then Mr Aleš Juchelka and so on. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr President Jakob, through the Vice-President, you have spoken for quite a while, you have said nothing. So it's simple. It's simple. Don't wrap it in all those beautiful words and empty phrases and empty floscules. Do one thing: push the effectiveness of this law, this amendment, for the election of the CEO. Say yes, no, if not, then why. That's all this is about. We all know that. So don't worry, let's face it: we want our CEO because we want to have some influence there. I believe you wouldn't succeed anyway. Or say no, it's different and why it's different. Don't tell us a lot of those empty words that we all know are of no information value. And a little reminder. You're the only one here who's discussing with us, at least I appreciate that. The Minister, we'll see, he'll be involved, hopefully. But other than that, I see nothing. There's a hole in the five-caliber benches. They obviously don't care about anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u25	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Lubomír Brož will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u26	Well, thank you very much. Of course, I am preparing another speech that I will have later, but it is also necessary to respond with factual remarks to my honourable colleague, Mr Jakob, through you, Madam President. I remember just the time when the first version of this law was really unconstitutional, when you tried to push the restrictions on citizens' rights to even run for advice when you gave them conditions that only a certain part of society could meet, I would say elitist. I remember when some ministries said, contrary to the constitutionality of the first version of the law, that you wanted to restrict the rights of associations and organizations to propose candidates for councils, of course in several ways that they had to be in two regions, of course ten years of history. Let me just remind you that if I want to start a political party, I can do it by signing a thousand people, and I can run for the Chamber of Deputies tomorrow. But so that citizens can watch public media, because we want licence fees for them, that is what this government coalition is trying or trying to limit. Luckily, you died, but it's plain and simple. You want to watch the election of the CEO of Czech Television. Fortunately, even brave journalists are already writing about it, that it is, and they are not afraid of it. And I believe and firmly believe that some of the government's Members will simply rise up and oppose this amendment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u27	I also thank you for keeping time. Let me just recap, we now have four actual electronics, one de facto from the point of view. And I will ask Mr Lubomír Brož with his deed, and then President Jakob will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. I confess that I did not want to speak because I have prepared my speech on this whole thing, but Mr Jakob gave já a little cause for the factual one, through Madam President. It is always when I hear the words about when the government coalition responds to criticism of something of its own by not understanding that we in YES obviously have other values and react, we think about it badly - the minister nods his head because he is a frequent source of this - so I am going to make a little bit of a fuss, because this is usually how the defense of some sort of scoundrel from the coalition's point of view begins. [[Minister of Culture]] And then after everything that's gotten to me, the saying -- even though I understand it, you have to defend it -- that this law, this change, we've entered the new century. Hell, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm looking forward to all the other government standards that may still be in the next century. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u29	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, with the factual President Jakob responding to the course, then Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond very, very, very, very briefly. You're saying how fast we're pushing it. Do you know when the bill arrived here? The bill sent out to Members as press 263 on 30. 6. 2022. Well, that's the speed of lightning! My colleague Patrik Nacher here said there'd be a great lie detector. I'm fundamentally against it, because some of you might turn out to be serving and you don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u31	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová, with her factual point of view, then President Marek Výborný will also respond to the debate. And another login in order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for your word. Just a quick short one for Mr Jakob. The fact that you said it came here last June, well, you probably didn't have the strength to push it through. But I'm saying, now you're pushing it at an incredible rate. I'm more concerned with other things, Mr. Secretary. You're shaking your head, I'm shaking my head. I'm glad there are two ministers here. I have nothing against the Secretary of Defense, but I don't think this is her punch, this is your punch. [[to the Minister of Culture]] Where are the rest of the ministers? You don't know, okay. Where are the MPs? It's your special meeting. You've called an emergency meeting on this point because it's so important, so important. Where's your MP? How many are sitting here? Is it so important to you that there are ten MPs sitting all over the place? Are you kidding us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u33	I also thank you for keeping time. Now President Marek will respond Výborný, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u34	Thanks for the word. Madam Vice-President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to remind you, by your means, colleagues, as has been said here. So please, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club is Jan Jakob. My colleague Nacher remembered his wood years in politics and renamed him his brother Ondřej. . [[Ambassador Nacher disagrees.]] Well, that's my brother, if I heard correctly about the actual one, and if I didn't, I'm sorry. In any case, Jákob is not, as some say here repeatedly, a biblical Old Testament figure, Ezau and Jákob, but Chairman Jan Jakob. So it's just a factual window from the Czech language. However, I would like to return it to the really factual, factual level. So if, as I've heard all these speeches with factual remarks, there's some kind of speedy negotiation and all that, the term, the President has made that date very clear. And I just want to refer to the government's programming statement. I know it's not your government, but we have made a clear commitment to something in the government's programming statement, and we have also declared from the outset that the big, so-called big amendment to media laws will be primarily linked to the issue of funding public media. And that really isn't a topic that's even professionally discussable in a few weeks. That's why we split things up like this. Everything else, please, is pointless. Now let me quote here from the Rules of Procedure Section 95 third reading of the bill, paragraph. 2: In the third reading there is a debate in which it is possible to propose only to correct the date of effectiveness of the bill, legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled and so on. [[- Please!]] Please, let us try to respect the Rules of Procedure and act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u35	Please, let us go with the substantive contributions to the debate. And as far as the facts are concerned, there are now about eight entries, because we still have a place to go. And I will say once again - they are actually responding to the debate. Mr Patrik Nacher is now registered and then President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm really gonna react. First of all, I didn't say Ondřej Jakob, I said Jan Jakob. I've known both my brothers for 20 years, so I can still recognize them. [[There's laughter. Just a moment.]] Just a minute. And so far, I'm abstinence, and I'm hoping to make it here without alcohol. That's one point. The other is about that time. Colleagues, colleagues, you know very well what we're talking about here. Yeah, maybe it's been in the system since June 2022, no one's questioning it here. The problem is that some laws are in the system for much longer. We know it was in the last parliamentary term, in this term, some things are waiting, getting old, it's almost never gonna happen. That's how it is. That means that it's been in the system since June, and now we're discussing it, that's not what this is about. The point is, an extraordinary meeting is being convened to speed things up. [[10.20 hours]] If you say on the microphone that approval won't have any effect on the current choice of director of television, this argument will go away and we'll only talk about the matter. But none of you said that on the microphone. And that would rule it out, but you just don't want to rule it out. That means it has a direct correlation, and that's what we're criticizing. So it doesn't matter if it's been since June, since April. This speed is bothering us that it's gonna affect what's happening somewhere else. And that change of law is actually catching up on the process of something else, somewhere to choose. And like I said in those examples, it's repeating itself. As for the final remark, my colleague Marek the Výborný, by your means. Well, at the third reading, even though you were in opposition, it's just political, there are speeches, it's just the minister's head nods, it's just like I'm ready to give a speech on one page, the rest I'm gonna say to myself -- that's just totally normal. [[- Please, time!]] [[The time for action is up!]] Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. I will now ask Madam President Alena Schillerová. Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna, an electronically logged-in Member, will now be prepared. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I know he's Jan and Ondřej Jakobův. Ondřej - Spokesman of Finance Kalousek, an indelible trail at the Ministry of Finance, today spokesperson of Minister Válek. So, of course, that's quite easy to distinguish, so I'll never be wrong. Never! I promise! And now for the next one. The programming statement. I have quoted him here, Mr President Výborný, through Madam Vice-President, perhaps you were not in the hall when I was performing, perhaps not very carefully. It was, I quoted there, it was your government, I will read it again, which in the programming declaration committed itself to supporting the public service media and seeking their stability. So how do you strive for stability? And I still didn't get the answer to the question I'm asking. Why can't it be effective after the CEO's election? Don't avoid the answer. Let's face it, we all know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. I also thank you for keeping time. Mr. Foldyna has just entered the hall, so he has made his point. And Mr. Juchelka will be ready. Please, our two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'm listening to this junk talk, she's so funny if it wasn't so sad. Look, we're discussing the law that Mr. Klíma set up, that's the censor that just called him off, but that's what's left of him. And basically, there's only one person who's defending this for the entire government coalition, Mr. Jakob. My colleague Jakob has taken on such a role as Vasil Biľak of the government coalition and is trying to defend these things. [[Laughing applause from the right side of the hall.]] And you fell for it. I think that let's move on, and I'm sure we'll learn a lot of interesting things in the next debate. And don't bother the Member and Chairman of the TOP 09 here, or whatever number it is, because we won't get to the important one. The novel has a little bit of a different assignment. He's setting up the moreses last night. So let's talk about it, let the public know what's going on, how the censorship is tightening, how it's done differently, sophisticated. It's got a really sophisticated... The Bolshevik in the '50s is a decoy against it. Yeah, it hurt, there were prisoners, it was hard... But gentlemen have learned better, sophisticated. Even Vasil Biľak hasn't been in Russia as many times as they're flying behind a big puddle to learn how to twist that democracy's neck. So let's go into this law hearing, and it's definitely gonna be hot in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, when I see a series of government coalitions here, when they have tried to push through this government proposal for several times, the answer for Mrs Peštová is simple: Because those MPs don't have it in their hands. They simply do not agree to this, so they cannot raise the hand differently, because there are only a few Members who are pushing this amendment, they are agreed with some senators who are also pushing this amendment, because the simple thing is a date, and that is that a new CEO is to be elected during June. And they have to keep an eye on it, and if they raise their numbers to 18 out of 15, they will not only burden the Czech TV budget for nothing, which we know is tense, but of course they will want to place their own man there by changing the kvora. We'll see about that in a few months, of course. So, again and through my colleagues, I call on the Minister of Culture to answer one single question: why is it not possible to support Mr Babka's amendment to postpone the negotiation of this law or to take effect next year after the election of the Director-General? And we'll all be satisfied, you'll have your 18 councilmen, you'll have your kvora so that, of course, there'll be another kvorum to choose, another kvorum to appeal the CEO, completely senseless, and you can promote other things. The fact that you are a government that is actually treading on freedom of speech not only by this law, but also in general is what you did at the beginning of your term. And proof that you canceled the government's media agent and misinformation last week because you finally realized it wasn't meant to be this way in a free society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. And now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, with her factual opinion, Mr Ondřej Babka can prepare herself. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would react very briefly only to the words, by your means, President of the Excellent, who has told us here that they have a commitment in their programming statement. Well, I read in the media that the government's programming statement is going to change, so I don't know if this commitment is that important. And if we look at the fact that today is Wednesday and all day by 14:00 we will be discussing one law on Czech Television, which is so terribly important, and yet our citizens have so many other problems, it seems very and very sad to me. Furthermore, we will no longer act at 14:00, which we are not doing to the entire Chamber of Deputies, because the government must have its government on Wednesday and cannot have it on Monday. So once again, Mr President, you will be changing the government's programming statement, as we all know, but this is your commitment. I'm curious to know what statements you'll change to your government there, and then we'll ask you about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u45	Thank you very much for keeping time. Mr Ondřej Babka and then Mr Drahoslav Ryba will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I will still respond with a factual remark to the Member, President of the Excellent. Mr President, I do not understand why you have quoted here from the House's Rules of Procedure what we are to do at third reading. After all, it was you who first responded with a factual remark and opened a language window that was completely off topic. We know that very well. In my speech, I will address my amendment, which I have recorded there and which is pushing the effectiveness of this law down to 1. 1. 2024. But we are in a situation where four priority rights have been raised, and we have only responded with factual remarks to President Jakob, and we have not actually been to the open debate or to the normal debate yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u47	That's right, thank you. Mr Drahoslav Ryba with his own facts and we can move on to applications again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u48	Madam President, I, too, will respond to President Jakob's speech. And I was interested in one fact: President Jakob here, through you, taught us about mathematical literacy that the only thing that can be divided is a nine, so there must be 18 members of the board. But of course it isn't. It could just as well be the divisor, or it could be 15 or even 12. That's where we get to be two-thirds and one-third. Only the 18 suits the intention of getting their director. That's all it is. If we leave the council of fifteen, we can also have two-thirds and one-third, but it will only take a little longer for the Senate to get there, the MPs (?) for the Senate, and we'll save money. Which, at the moment, I think is quite necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u49	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, please, there is no more factual, please, Mr Lacina, who will give the opinion of STAN.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. Have a good morning, everyone. Maybe I'd like to put the debate back on the ground and talk about the technical things this novel brings. I will allow myself in my preliminary contribution because I am also duly entered into this debate, on the one hand, to respond to President Schillerová, through the President, and to her question as to how we are pursuing the stability of the public service media. Simply by taking the novel The Chamber of Deputies has a chance to call off the media councils as a whole, and that is the most important part it brings. I also repeat over and over in this public debate the argument that what we are trying to approve here today will be appreciated by the next generation, because governments, parliaments, the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will change their composition, and it really is going to stabilise and increase the independence of the public service media. By the way, mainly because both public services media significantly offset the influence of the current government, or its majority, in the Chamber of Deputies. This is indeed the main intention that this adjustment brings. He wouldn't want to go into that discussion about the numbers. In my opinion, the 18 makes sense in all respects. And if there's an argument that's valid here, and I take it it will cost the Czech Television 2 million crowns, then I have to say, with a 7-billion-dollar budget. And then if you look at some kind of proportionality test, how much the $2 million in those $7 billion means, and how significant the change we're making today, and what a number of previous politicians and the House of Deputies have been trying to do, it's obviously very favourable for the adjustment we're making in that proportionality test that compares these two phenomena. To be perfectly clear, because so far it's been such a technical debate on my part, we're getting into a situation here that the House carp are supposed to release their pond and some of the carp in the House just don't like it. But we're not. We're not the ones who don't like it. We are here at a relatively historic moment, and I firmly believe that we are going to make this thing, even if we have been dealing with this amendment in the Chamber of Deputies for eight months, which is also an argument about how quickly we are pushing it through the process. In the meantime, thank you for your attention and I look forward to another exchange of views.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Let me say hello to all of you. And we have two factual points. First Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Lacina. You're the guy who's kind of pushing the novel forward here, and if that's not true, I'd be happy to, of course, but I'd like to hear you say on the microphone that you're not in any conflict of interest, because, of course, you know, you have some contracts that you have with the Czech TV, so I'm just wondering if there's a conflict of interest from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. I will ask Mr Nacher and another of the applicants is Mr Jakob. [[Mr Lacina is claiming the floor, and Mr Nacher prefers it.]] If so, we can make a deal like this, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u54	Perhaps it will be easy for me to respond to this immediately with a very clear answer - I am not in any conflict of interest. None at all. That's absolutely clear. Let me just say one more thing while I'm standing here. Mr. Foldyna compared today with the 1950s and the political situation, so I hope that the comparison was well heard by those persecuted families and the descendants of the murdered and executed. I think it would be good to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Nacher, then Mr Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I'd like to be positive, too, to appreciate that a colleague of Honza Jakob and Lacina is actually here on the microphone, because even if I don't have to agree with them, and sometimes completely damn well, I'm glad they're at least here on the microphone and defending it. The fact that the rest of them are silent can mean to me that maybe they're not exactly identified with it. Because a person then leaves an electronic track, it's recorded, everyone sees it, so defend it on a microphone, so it's actually forever connected to that opinion. But I would like to ask Mr Lacina here, through you, Mr Vice-President, two things. First of all, how did it come up that the 18 were better than 15? I don't understand what the added value is. I wonder. I've already asked at first or second reading whether there's so much work for those 15 board members that they need to be extended to 18. So what's the job, if anyone can answer? And the second thing that the carp doesn't release a pond is exactly what I was writing to myself. Great! Well, that reminds me of yesterday's proposal by my colleague Jana Vildumetzová Mračková, who said and talked about this point of pre-selection of politicians' salaries. That's actually from a similar wound. In that case, too, you don't want to release the pond as a carp by saying that the moment real wages go down, we don't want to touch the wages here. It's from the same wound, isn't it? It's either yes or no. But otherwise it's selective, don't be mad at me, it's only a double standard at the time, as you can use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Another of the applicants is President Jakob and then Mrs Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I really didn't want to, but I have to. The previous speakers here mention the numbers. So math lesson for the first grade primary school. If we want the council to be changed continuously, every two years a third and a third were elected by the Senate and two thirds of the House, either every two years the Senate elects one member of the council and two in the House, so in that cycle it's nine. Three times three is nine. If we want a little more advice, every two years, the Senate elects two members and the House... [[He's thinking. Laughter on the left.]] And the House 4. Times 3 is 18. If it were 15, every year the Senate would vote for one whole and 0.67 councilman, and in the House we would vote for a similar, whole number divisible by number. So the math is pretty simple, just to be clear. And the words of Mr. Foldyna, who brought up rhetoric that doesn't really belong here, I don't want to comment. It's just typical for me that half the ANO movement is applauding it. You can see where you're going and where you're going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u59	Mr. Lacina.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. I'm gonna try to give the rationality of the debate today and put those things back on the ground and not say who we're from and when we know each other. But Mr. Jakob took the numbers for me, I don't think I'm gonna repeat that. But for those who are more frequent today and maybe they don't know the subject so well, so I'd say he's the number of 9 councilmen and 18, which means that the Czech Television Council is supposed to be twice the size of the institution and its budget. You who are watching this, you know that Czech Television has a budget of around 7 billion, Czech Radio about 2 billion, so it is relatively rational for 9 councillors to oversee Czech Radio and double the number of Czech Television. The budget and the importance of Czech television is a little bit bigger than twice, but this seemed like a good thing to us. Then I'll just explain it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u61	Next is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, then Mrs Berenika Peštová. We're still in business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u62	I would like to respond to my colleague Lacina. pan Lacina, through Mr President, according to the statement of 18. 2. 2023 You are the owner of Café Náprstkova s. r. o. There's your date of birth that checks out. You are the CEO of this company and also as the CEO of this company you had to know about the orders you received from Czech Television for various services. Unfortunately, I'm not gonna know the specs from the blacked-out orders, but I'm gonna find out the amounts. Once it's 110,000, twice it's 347,000, third it's 100,000. I think you're in a conflict of interest. I would like to draw your attention to Section 8 of the Conflict of Interest Act. And it would be at least fair for you here, when you sought the position of rapporteur and defended this law vehemently, to correct this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mr Ondřej Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to appeal to the members of the ruling coalition if they were so kind as to come to their benches. It's your law, you're pushing it, it's your emergency meeting. Now there's only one minister, the Minister of Culture, now we don't even have the Secretary of Defense. So be so kind, come to work. It's your concern, your law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Mr Babka and then Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor. I will... if I may, Mr President, time to just have... [[I'm letting you have it.]] Thank you so much. I would like to respond to my colleague Lacina. He was talking about what's logical and illogical about the numbers. For example, it seems illogical to me that the Council will have 18 members on Czech Television, which is an even number, and it will be 9 in Czech Radio, which is an odd number. So here you can argue logic or illogicality on both sides. I find it illogical that once it's even and once an odd number. Now that the math window has been opened by Mr. Chairman Jakob, I will join you, and I will repeat the numbers you're changing in this law again. Currently, the CEO is also elected by 15 councillors. The current wording of the law requires 10 out of 15, or two-thirds, 10 out of 15. You add three councilmen to the new law, so you have 18, but for the choice of the new CEO, you suddenly lost the two-thirds and put in a simple majority, which is 10 out of 18. So only if we have an open math window, so that we can all figure out what you want in this law. And while we're at it, I'm just going to mention that you're leaving 10 out of 18 votes for the election of the CEO, but for the appeal, so that he can't be called off, so you're introducing the two-thirds, which is 13 out of 18. I'm gonna use the rest of my time to ask for transitional provisions because... But I'm not gonna make it, so I'm gonna sign up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mašek, then Mr Aleš Juchelka - we are still in factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u68	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to address Mr Lacin, through you, here are some serious facts from Mrs Jermanová that your company has several hundred thousand contracts with the Czech Television. You said you didn't have a conflict of interest here on the microphone. Please come here and explain. And I'm going to ask if it's for you, hundreds of thousands of contracts with the Czech Television, if they're so marginal and you run business so big, you didn't notice, or your subordinates didn't tell you. Otherwise, in this case, I find it immoral that you speak to this point in the way you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u69	Mr Lacina wants to respond to the facts, but I have two more electronics registered here, I have to give priority to this case. So, Mr Juchelka, Mr Nacher and then Mr Lacina.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u70	Thank you very much, too. I'm just gonna go back to those councillor numbers because that's very important. If we have 9 in Czech Radio and double in Czech Television, that means 18, and if the budget of Czech Television is seven billion and Czech Radio is two billion, there is no double budget of 4 billion for Czech Television, but several times higher. First of all. So there could be even more, of course, if there's this argument you're making here. And the argument is, of course, wrong. It's just that the argument is pretty clear, that's what we're saying here all the time, that it's the CEO's choice. In order for it to work out mathematically, you're pushing it here in the third reading, because the choice is on June 7th, that's just obvious, and that's obvious. And I wouldn't compare Czech Radio and Czech Television as well. These are two completely different media that only have in common the fact that they are public service media. The TV costs are completely different than the radio costs. We see it here every day in the Chamber of Deputies, where we have several staffs of Czech Television, who just have to have cameramen and so on, because technically it's just as simple as that and it's loaded, and we just see the workers of Czech Radio, who only need a tape recorder, and it's logical that Czech TV has a higher budget. But that doesn't mean there must be a higher number of controllers. As for the serious accusation made by Mrs Jermanová to you, Mr Lacina, through Madam President, these allegations are very serious... [[President Havlíček: Mr, sir, yet still.]] Yeah, Mr. President, sorry. [[Fun.]] They're very serious. In this logic, I understand why various resolutions are still pushing through the electoral committee to pay the rest of the reward to the Director-General, who has been reduced by a few hundred thousand crowns. And Mr Lacina is fighting very vehemently for it. I've said it here several times, he just wants to pay back the Director-General's reward. Well, that makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Nacher and then Mr Lacina.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u72	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I don't think that you're going to put it on a rational level, which, by Lacina, maybe you're explicitly saying on the microphone that we, as we ask, are as irrational as we are, and you're going to put it as if it's a serious line. I'm sorry, but that's what I'm begging for. I've been asking specific questions here that I haven't received an answer to so far. The crucial one, the most important one, is if you're in a hurry to influence the current running, not that it's going to be announced, but that it's going to be a tender for the election of the CEO. And as for the numbers, it wasn't answered either. Because you're really pulling the numbers, I don't know where. Because none of the arguments, as my previous speakers said, are working. If it was based on the budget, that number of councilmen would have to be 30, if I count correctly. Because it's more than three times that, so three times nine twenty-seven plus three thirty at the time. So it's not about the budget. Then it must be about something else. If you somehow spin it, as Jan Jakob calculated here, you divide it by five, don't drag the Senate into it, and you have... every two years you swap five councilmen, and it'll actually work like a Senate election, it'll reward a third. In other words, if that's what you wanted, why didn't you come up with that number in the last term? I did not notice such an amendment. But the whole point of pointing it out is that there's a real change in the constitution of the director. That means it's not just the increase in numbers, but you're changing from one half to two thirds. Or from two thirds to one half, respectively. [[The President: Time, time.]] That means you're softening it, and that's the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Mr Lacina and then Mr Baxa in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u74	I'm not quite sure what to start with. I will try to start with a bonus for Petr Dvořák, whom the Czech Television Council reduced the reward by CZK 800,000 by five votes out of eleven members. Five votes out of 11 members. Will you agree with me that five out of eleven are not the majority? That is my answer to why I am quite captivating about this subject in the electoral committee, because there the Czech Television Council has agreed something that is not in accordance with the law, and I think it is quite obvious, and I think I will finally come home to this truth. Secondly, I would like to explain - I actually spend most of my life either in the Chamber of Deputies or at the City Hall of Prague 6. I have some other commitments. And I've been running a café on the New Stage of the National Theatre for a very long time, sometime since 2010, and the New Stage of the National Theatre is taking place at the Golden Prague Festival, so it's probably gonna be an invoice for refreshments for the festival, which is about a week. That's all I'm gonna tell you. It's got a chief of traffic. Of course, I'm interested in the basics, but not in the details. There are dozens of rentals of this type in a year. I don't want to say hundreds, but dozens definitely. So much for explaining. I cannot prevent the Golden Prague festival from happening on the New Stage of the National Theatre. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u75	Another of the applicants is Minister Baxa. Then Mr. Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just to update my performance, I am, of course, ready to respond repeatedly to all the comments that have been made here. I will keep my speech after the speech of the shadow minister for culture on this subject. I just want two factual things that he's been working on. Mrs Berenika Peštová asked about the comment procedure during the preparation of this proposal. The point is that there was a proper reminder procedure for the version submitted in January. Given that we have entered into a disagreement with the Government's Legislative Council, we have made an adjustment to the proposal according to the comments made by the LRV, and logically this proposal did not go back into the government's commentary proceedings because we have proceeded to these adjustments in the context of what was recommended to us. And the basic thing about time. I will then, of course, respond to the key point that concerns the election of the Director-General, actually asking you, my fellow Members from the ANO movement, to clarify not only the Members and Members, but also everything you have in mind by influencing the Director-General, as in your world what it means to influence the election of the Director-General, what is to be done in your world of influence on the public media, so I just want to say that timing is simply in the context of the way I work, which may be a lot more rapid than it has been in the Ministry of Culture in recent years. At this point, we have prepared a number of amendments to laws that have not been discussed for a long time. And by the way, this amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act was prepared a few weeks after my entry into office in January, and I just want it to be open in accordance with the government's programming statement. But then, when I hear what you have in mind by influencing the choice of CEO, I will respond to these comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u77	Mr Juchelka, then Mrs Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u78	Thank you very much. So I will try to explain this to you on concrete factual examples and things, as the government coalition responds to the electoral committee. So now we have some issue here where the Czech Television company of Mr Lacina, through you, invokes hundreds of thousands of crowns. Then Mr Lacina comes and says: the remuneration has been unlawfully withdrawn from the Director-General, and we are attacking it and we want it to be paid. Okay. This is why the government coalition in the electoral committee will not approve a report on the activities of Czech television, which is not a problem, but the dog buried is that if the House does not approve two reports on the activities of Czech television or about the management, then the whole council will end up in one person and the whole council will be elected new. And that's the insurance policy you've got there if this law doesn't pass here at third reading, that you'll call off the whole en bloc board and choose a new one by June. That is why, 14 days ago, when the House approved all public media reports since 2016, we ended up not approving the 2021 report and 2022, where the vote ended if you recall, and that is precisely the insurance of the government coalition. And what's really going on with the right CEO? No more, Minister, than the 7 billion crowns. About the 7 billion crowns, about the influence on the medium, about the influence on the publicity and the news. And you really live in a different world at this point, because you've been stepping on freedom, rights and freedom of speech since the first time you took over the government in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u79	We're still in factual notes. We have four logged in. Next is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, then Mr Babka, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u80	I am sorry, but Mr Lacina, through Mr President, you did not save much with that statement. The business record statement says, and it probably doesn't lie that your contribution to this company is majority and that you are the one who acts independently for the company. That means you need to know everything. And the excuse that you're in the House or the City Hall really won't hold up at this point. If you were to draw attention to this link with Czech Television when the House voted on you to be the rapporteur, we decided by voting whether or not it bothered us. But the fact that we are trying to learn it from public sources, from various media articles, that seems very bad to me. And Minister Baxa should pay attention at this point, because the fact that you were the two readers of this law as rapporteur does not give this law much more credibility than just because of the reasons we talked about here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I wanted to respond to Minister Baxa, who said that I would try to describe to him what world we live in and what world he lives in. I think my colleague Aleš Juchelka has done it perfectly for me. So, Minister, the world... As follows: We, as well as the dealers who pay the licence fee of Czech Television, are simply concerned about how and at what time you are pushing this amendment. And if -- because you guys are always saying it like you're saying that our world is different, then if you want to make life nicer in our world, then support my amendment, which puts it back to 1. 1. 2024. Nothing's gonna happen, except for us in our world, and those dealers in our beautiful world, they're just gonna get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u83	We have two finals with the facts, Mr Nacher, and then Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister's call. I can turn to him directly. So, Minister, you said how our world is, it's simple. Today, the rules are that there are 15 board members, and the CEO elects two-thirds, or they choose two-thirds, which is 10 out of 15. That's the current rules. The selection procedure is already announced, which means our world is such that the rules that apply at the time of the selection procedure are announced to the Director. Your world is that you make 18 in the middle of that 15 competition, and at the same time you change the ratio that it may not be two-thirds, but half, so by allowing those three, you have a direct influence on how the CEO will be elected. I think it's pretty straightforward. If our world and your world were similarly tuned, you would come up with the change, because I understand that this is some kind of political decision, but you will approve my colleague Babka's amendment to make it effective from 1. 1. [[11.00 hours]] If our world and your world were similarly tuned, you would come up with the change, because I understand that this is some kind of political decision, but you will approve my colleague Babka's amendment to make it effective from 1. 1. so the current rules will not change and you will change it in the future. We could criticize it, but that's all we can do about it. I don't think there's any easier way to say it. We just don't like it, or me specifically, whether I speak for myself, that the rules are changing in the middle of the game at the running point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u85	Thank you and so far the last with the de facto Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. If I have registered, you, Mr Babka, are on the list with your speech, I'm sure Mr Juchelka, I'll specify the question for you. Explain here to the Members and Members, to the viewers what influence means in your world to the CEO. We are here to present a proposal that complicates politicians, any political representation, any influence on public television. We're expanding the number of councillors, engaging the Senate, abolishing the appeal of the council. In your world, in a world whose natural part is clearly political influence on public media from your speeches, this clearly does not apply. So I ask you to explain in your performances - and I will then respond - why we want to have an impact on the choice of the CEO, what we want to achieve and what kind of influence it is supposed to have, let them expose themselves here. Because I'm here defending a proposal that complicates the situation of potential political influence on public media. In your world, in the world where you talk about influence, describe in detail what we want to do in your world, how in particular, why we do it, how in particular we want to apply the influence we want to dictate what we want to command. Mr Babka, through the Vice-President, Mr Nacher, through the Vice-President, Mr Juchelka, through the Vice-President, not in factual remarks, explain in detail in your speeches what it means to influence the public media and the Director-General in your world. I will then use your bill, which concerns the public media, to put your actions against the public media, namely the Czech Television and the Czech Radio, into a completely real state. Let us lead this debate openly, not through factual remarks. Explain in detail your vision of the world, your political influence on public media.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u87	Well, thank you. Everyone wants to respond. First of all, Mr Juchelka came forward, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u88	Well, Minister, you're a great and wonderful rhetoricalist who can turn that so-called monkey into the backs of others. Because we have the questions here, we had them first, and we didn't get the answers. I'm terribly sorry, but where are your answers to my questions? How can you even ask your questions at this point? So I'll tell you again, because we've been telling you this since this morning, we've told you at second reading, we've told you at first reading, we've told you several times on the election committee. So you want to keep an eye on the CEO's election by wanting to change the kvorum law and increase the number of councillors so that you can count who are your councillors, yes, and, for example, we have a record of the Czech Television Council, where one of the councillors says, "I guess we all know who we're elected for," so then we can play it, and your councillors, because you have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies and a majority in the Senate, so they're going to vote for the CEO or the candidate you're going to put there. Of course, we're wondering who it's gonna be. But instead of answering questions about why we didn't approve the last two reports on the activities of the Czech Television, why you're doing this here at an emergency meeting of the House, you didn't answer the question why you didn't want to shift the effectiveness, why you still want to drag it to the extraordinary meeting of the House before June 7th, when the election of the CEO would be the board. Why are you suddenly changing the rules when a call has already been made for all candidates to report? Maybe some of them are getting ready, and at this point, you're telling them this law: don't prepare, don't do projects, because we have it all exactly ready for our right candidate. What's going on? About 7 billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u89	Another Mr Nacher, then Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. I have to respond to the Minister. Well, first of all, we've changed roles a little bit, because it should be so that we, as opposition, ask you as petitioners, and as a result, you ask us. But I will set an example not to criticize, and I will answer. It's very simple. Approval of the amendment, among other things, by Mr Ondřej Babka, to ensure that the effectiveness is from 1. 1. It's basically a very simple answer to your question. You're gonna distract all the suspicions we're talking about here. Because you tell me what the added value of it is that it will apply immediately after approval, and what if it applies from 1. 1. What happens between May 2023 and May 1. 1. 2024? What's the added value? That's a very specific question. For me, the only unsub I see is the CEO's choice, otherwise I don't see anything else. So I'm quite interested in why you're pushing it so hard and why you won't support an amendment that would dispel any doubt in your own interest that it's precisely the opposite that you want to influence and seize Czech television. And that's pretty simple, this is as simple as a ladder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. Simple as a ladder. Minister, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u92	Mr Nacher, through the Vice-President, it is as you say - that is a nice saying - as easy as a ladder in your world. In your world, where the logic of influence is. Finally, Mr Juchelka here said the key phrase I've been waiting for all along - our right candidate. So, Mr Juchelka, through Vice-President Havlíček, in your speech, tell us who the so-called right candidate is. Let's tell everyone why you think that the government coalition that enforces this bill here wants to make a choice, so-called through our councillors, so-called our right candidate. I'm sorry, colleague, I appreciate what you're doing, what you're doing, but it's not enough to say it's $7 billion. Tell us specifically what the so-called right candidate, the coalition candidate, is supposed to do. I'd like to look into your world, the permanent influence of the political sphere on public media. My world, the world of the government coalition that approved this amendment, is based on the fact that there are obstacles to the political sphere, Members, the involvement of the Senate, the abolition of the appeal of the council. To have an impact on public media. Your world is different. Your world is a world where you keep thinking about how to do it, but because you're in opposition now, you're bringing it to us. It said "our right candidate" here. Mr. Juchelka, now, or in your proper performance, define our right candidate, tell us what you suspect the government coalition, what the elected CEO has to do with it. And of course, this election is very likely this year, this year, the election of the CEO will take place, and then we can compare it, because independent council elects how the expectations are met. But tell them, name your world the right candidate for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u93	Mr Babka, then Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for the floor. Well, Minister, I'll repeat the question Patrik Nacher asked you here, not that you ask us here. Yes, you can ask, of course, you can ask, however, we would like to hear the question of what would happen, what would happen in the meantime from May to December, if this law had not been effective and would have taken effect up to 1. 1. 2024. That would distract all the doubts we have here. That's easy. [[11.10 hours]] And I'll tell you what would happen. Nothing would happen because the law is written, and the length of the mandate, for example, the six years when the Senate elects them, is not affected, so the six years will begin with that choice. That means nothing would have happened. The law can only come into force in 2025, and nothing will happen anyway, because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if it comes into force now or in 2024 with regard to how the councilmen will be, how long will they carry out the mandate. What we want you to do is not interfere with the CEO's open tender by increasing the number of councillors and changing the kvorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u96	Minister - thank you very much for the floor. Minister, you must not, of course, suspect us that we are indeed suspicious. From the beginning when you began to rule, we see how you trample on the democratic values of our country. So I'm going to remind you all of this one by one. We voted for the Czech Television Council here, several candidates. And since this has failed twice by a secret choice, because for 30 years, the Chamber of Deputies has been voting for a secret choice of staff, you have voted to make it public so that the government coalition can watch out for each other who votes. And beware who would vote differently. Why? Well, because you needed it, the right people, to afford it, for the council. Why? Well, you answer that question, why did you despise the secret choice and choose councillors as a staff of acclamations? Why do you suddenly suspect us of something when you yourself have a government media agent and misinformation that you canceled last week because you realized that your plan of action for head misinformation would violate freedom of speech in the Czech Republic and by pouring CZK 150 million of taxpayers' money into the media? One hundred and fifty million crowns. And the media would automatically become pro-government media. And the other proof is that we have this law. We've been here for 30 years, in the '90s, we've got a law where we vote for councilmen, it works just like 30 years, we vote for them, we call them off, everything's just normal. I've been here for six years, we've voted several times for the Councillor of Czech Television, and suddenly you're changing it right before the election. So we have the questions. Then answer them. [[Time.]] Why are you still trampling around in some way democratic ways in our House?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u97	Thank you. The next envoy is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, then Mr Milan Brázdil and Mr Martin Kolovratník, and then Minister Baxa. He's downloading, so we have three at this point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u98	So, of course, I will respond to the Minister. But before that, I mean, I like to be the first, but when it's too long, it's not quite pleasant anymore, so I'd like to move on to my speech later. However, Minister, I must respond to you. I'm sorry that clearly you don't need one world to defend a small novel called Czech Television. You're always defending yourself by having your own world, and we have our own world. I have one world, and that is the Czech Republic, the citizens I represent. And the mission of the minister, who presents such an amendment to the law, is to communicate with everyone. And that's not what happened here. And I haven't gotten the answer yet from you to the question, why couldn't this change wait until the big amendment to the Czech Television Act? Then we'd have enough time to talk about it. And I'm sure the suspicions and the concerns that we're expressing here would go away. I'd like that answer, but please, specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u99	Mr Brázdil and then Mr Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. I am not an expert in this regard, however, Minister, you have raised the question of what quality a director of a public institution such as Czech Television should have. I'll tell you what he shouldn't have. Every day, every Friday, when we have this meeting, most of you show up at home and watch TV. You're sitting here, and you know what we've been discussing, and suddenly there's something completely different about that TV. Do you know what's going on? What is happening is that actually serving people in this state should be so that they will not use our mouths to say their views. Yeah, if Nova does it, other TVs, why not, but they're privates. But she shouldn't use public service, abuse each and every one of us to make fun of us through our mouths. Every Friday, when I get home, I watch - or not everyone, but my wife and I sit down at the TV paper, and now we're watching it. I say, Pavel, don't believe it, that's nonsense. I was there, I really sat there, and that's different. That's what the principal should look like. The director, who - and other journalists, I'm not talking about fun shows or anything, but at least the publicist ones. That's what people want. Then they'll watch the TV. Maybe then they'd be willing to add some sort of licence fee. I mean, I actually wanted to tell you that this-- but we're probably all feeling that it's not going to happen, that it's going to be tender again. I don't know if I've explained this well, I'm not a good guy in this regard, but perhaps I was logical enough to describe it to you. That's what we want, us ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u101	Thank you. Martin Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u102	Good morning from me. The Minister also provoked me to that two-minute factual remark. Minister, you asked the question of what the world is like or who, so let us answer who the pro-government candidates are on the councils and what to do. You know, I've been working in those media since this system came into being, sometime in 2000, 2001, 2002, watching what councillors were primarily like at the time in the Czech Radio. I've been President of the Election Commission for over eight years here in the House. Every election goes by my hands and I see how it works. And I'm just gonna remind you about the last one, that last term, that government was minority. Anyone who, any candidate who was supposed to pass through this House, simply had to win over half the votes in that secret election. And that's what sharpened, let's say, the extremes or the extracurriculars. She's just always had to be in that system - and she's not perfect, she certainly has her flies, but in the secret election system, whatever the government was, minority, majority, leftist, your right-wing governments before 2013, so those candidates just had to get some sort of majority over-half consensus in this secret election. And if you want to answer your question, please look at the 15th of June last year, when your promoted candidates here just didn't have that consensus in the coalition, a number of your colleagues, or some amount, I don't want to say a number, had a reminder, comments, and that fifty percent above-half majority just wasn't reached. You've thrown away all your inhibitions, you've chosen acclamations and names like Ladislav Mrklas, Vlastimil Ježek, Karel Novák, Milada Richterová, Petr Šafařík, these are the five aldermen you've voted for by acclamation. These are your government candidates. So you understand that once we've seen you throw away all your inhibitions, all your gloves, that you're here to declare acclamation anything to check on your MPs, then don't be surprised that we're worried.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u103	So far, with the last de facto Mr. Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I was calling for some idea of a lie to be formulated by those involved. He did a little surprisingly for me, Dr. Brázdil. I think he did it in a way that was omnipotent. So I just want to say that in our world, we really don't want such a CEO of Czech Television. And I will be very happy to quote in my speech and discuss exactly the individual sentences that are here for the club of the ANO movement - I suppose - Dr. Brázdil said and what the CEO should look like in your concept and what we really do not want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. And yet we still have two factual ones. Mr Janulík and then Mr Juchelka. And another Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The only way I'd react to it is if, as it says in an old, ancient, two thousand years, you get to know them after the fruit. I'll give you an example of the two worlds. I live on the border with Austria as a colleague here, and when I watch the news of Czech Television and then I watch the news of Österreichischer Rundfunk, it's just the two worlds. [[11.20 hours]] I feel like I was ninety-nine years old when everything was completely different on TV than it was out there. It's just that the wheel of history has turned back. And these are the two different worlds, and this shouldn't be happening at all. Where did it just go, what happened? When private TVs do it, it's their business. But that's the media -- that's the concept of public, that's what the TV guys made up. Because he doesn't know the concept of law. He only knows the concept of public service media. That's service, public service. It's supposed to give the impression that they're public and legal. They're neither public nor legal. But they're public service media, they're supposed to serve it. The degree of bias and bias, it's just like it was 33 years ago. I'm just staring at it and thinking, it's just... Those are exactly the two worlds you're talking about. That's your world. And then you let go of the Rakušák and you feel like it's a completely different galaxy. And it's -- I've got it over a hill of 1,200 meters -- it's two completely different worlds. Now the question is which one is the normal one. I spent the first half of my life on that toaster, and basically I watched 90 percent of that Austrian TV. I have the same feeling today, the same image of the world as it was then. It's just that this has gone somewhere, and it's completely beyond objective reality. You guys feel like it's all good, but it's not, unfortunately. In the end, history and life will decide anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Juchelka, then Mr. Berenika Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. I'll just be very brief. Minister, this world of yours is a world that doesn't answer our questions. This world of yours is a world where you keep going around and you can't answer the obvious things that we've been asking here, like Mr. Patrik Nacher's mouth, through you, from my mouth. We asked about the individual democratic processes that have been violated here. Our world is - to use your words, and to really value it - our world is democratic. Your world is racking up all the different values that happen in the media. I've said a few examples here. Public election of councillors, government media agent and misinformation, Mr. Klíma, shutting down some disinformation websites that you've set up again in a month because it was against the law. A whole series of these things. The highlight of this is this small amendment to the Czech Television Act, which is still happening an extraordinary meeting of the House before the election of the CEO. This is your world. Since we live in a common world, fortunately, we have opposition here, which points out this very hard and will continue to draw attention to it. Because it's all these value things that I'm talking about that you just sneak up on every step in the media and I'd say you're just trampling, emptying the concepts. I don't like it, and I'd like us to live in a world where we're going to talk about these individual laws in the way that we do in opposition, and not the way that you do in coalition. You guys have a mouthful of different nice take-off sentences right here, but you're not answering our specific questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. Next up, Berenika Peštová, so far the last one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, your world has divided our nation into democrats and non-democrats. Your world has divided the nation into two halves that are beginning to hate each other. I think it's useless, and on the contrary, we should bring these worlds closer together, not that we have your world and our world. But I'm more concerned about the other thing you said here. You said here, we don't want one. Like what, we don't want one? Here's a proper tender, and if this guy goes through a proper selection procedure, you can't say we don't want to. You're gonna choose who you want? Well, that's probably why there's a proper selection process that, when you go through it, you have a chance to be CEO. It's not that we like it or don't like it, and it fits into our world, or it doesn't fit into our world. This is wrong, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Minister Baxa and then Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. I wanted to keep a more detailed comment for my performance. So, Mrs Peštová, through the Vice-President, I said that sentence on purpose because your colleagues here have named the concept of public media, which we fundamentally reject. We are not here as politicians to assess whether public media is objective or biased, or what the Director-General should do on the basis of the wishes of Members. I really don't want that CEO! And every democrat, every democratic politician, should name and say this, Mrs Bereniko Peštová. We want a CEO who will act independently of political influence, and we, as members of the government coalition, are defending this here. We're not talking about biased Czech TV, what the CEO should be doing. That is why we are putting forward a bill here that complicates the political influence on the election of the CEO. Complicates the political influence on the election of the CEO! I no longer blame Members Juchelek, Babka and others for not answering my questions about our right candidate. Because you defined the right candidate that way. We want public media that are fundamentally shielded from political influence. Political representation takes turns, once we're in opposition, twice you're in opposition. But there must be public media standing above political traffic, commenting on it, assessing it very strictly. We may not like it, but it is absolutely important for the quality of democracy. And it's not like we're going to say that public media is biased, or that it should be based on what we think.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u113	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u114	Well, I went with the de facto to respond to you, to the previous one, but now you're totally... I don't understand. So do you want what people are told through our mouths to be true, or was it a lie, or her (?) An opinion? What do you want? You're saying objectivity is wrong? You want to choose a person who controls this medium so that he doesn't rip, rip out, put it in your mouth, so that he doesn't comment on what you're saying. They're just to reflect on it. Then there'll never be justice, we'll always swear at everything. Because when they... Sure, it could be anyone else who's a private man. He's a private psychic, no matter what he says. But it can't be what people pay for. I didn't understand you right now. You said, I'll use the words of the Brázdil that we want to choose - or that you want, the YES movement wants, some director and functional Czech television that will be objective. panenka Marie, are you serious? You want objective? I think you'll explain. I'm bad at it, but mostly the people. Then what are they supposed to believe? Disinformation is information, and information will be disinformation, and someone will make decisions about it, and who will make decisions about it and think of something else, but they have to say something else. Oh, my Maria, this is how we got it. And they say who's splitting it up? Does that divide which party, which movement? Well, we're not actually putting it together at all. We're going to continue the distribution. We continue with something like the approval of this amendment. Once again, I'm not forged, but I'm kind of aware of what I want and what's right, maybe we all have. So let's go this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor. So let's say it's a public media, this Czech television is paid by citizens of licence fees. That's why the information is supposed to be objective. Isn't that right? It should simply be objective, it should not be balanced on either side or on the other side. Citizens have a right to know because they pay licence fees, and they have a right to know what the money is paying for. Why is this amendment only concerned with one segment, that is, by extending the number of councillors? [[He's talking very strongly.]] Why doesn't this novel address what our citizens have long been troubled and want to know? How much do individual moderators get, what are they paid for, what are their salaries, how are complaints about Czech TV being dealt with? I mean, basically, the advice is toothless. She can't do anything. Why doesn't the SAO have a chance to control where the money goes? Because we keep seeing that we're losing it back in the Bermuda Triangle, they still need more and more money. Where's the money going, anyway? So basically, if you think about how you say it's democratic so the people know, then why don't you open it up to the people? Why doesn't the people know anything about this? Nothing at all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u117	Minister, another factual one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u118	For the last time, I will respond to a factual remark. I have promised to do my performance after the performance by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, however, the performance by colleagues Peštová, Mr Brázdil, Mr Janulík offered so much, I would say, the suggestions that need to be made more extensively commenting that I will probably postpone my performance a little later, because, Dr Brázdil, through the Vice-President, if I use your point of view that people are bad when they see what is happening on television, it is probably a bit of a paraphrase, so those who believe in the key role of public media in protecting freedom and democracy in our country must really be bad when they hear your speeches and these assessments of what public television is supposed to do. I take it, we are in a democratic parliament, everyone has the right to say their opinion, but I really think that this debate is moving into the role of perhaps some deeper... or need, and I will then stress it here, not to defend the particular proposal, but to move further or somewhat deeper into explaining the role of public media in a free society. [[unintelligible]] Because I knew our worlds were different, I didn't know they were so different. I think it really needs to be, like, educational, but more of a value perspective on how we look at the role of public media. And I promise answers to specific questions. We want, and is in the government's programming statement, to involve the Supreme Audit Office in the control of public media. We've got a cross-section match on it. I'm glad you're supporting it, too. But it is clear that this requires an amendment to the Constitution, which cannot only be done by a normal amendment to the law. So now it will be our job to find out if the Constitution will be opened and how to formulate it in such a way that this proposal is accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u119	Thank you, which has exhausted all the factual points and we can therefore move on to another duly signed up during the debate, and this is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, and then she is signed with the priority right of Vice-President Klára Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u120	That's how I got there. Mr President, honourable members of the government - two members - and honourable colleagues, dear colleagues, I am sure we agree with the Minister here that public service regulators play a key role in promoting and promoting pluralism of opinion, as well as free debate, in a democratic society. I am aware of this, and that is why I am now speaking to this amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. Especially now, at a time when war is raging in Europe and our country has major economic problems, the Public Service Media Regulation Act is one of the most important ones. I am merely reminding you, fellow Members, that it is this state, which legally commands citizens to pay licence fees, and it is therefore our duty to ensure that the media to which citizens must pay fulfill its function, i.e. to provide versatile information for the free creation of opinions. And I don't think that's happening right now, unfortunately. The media provide a great deal of information, but not all-round. They provide information unilaterally coloured, unfortunately in favour of the government coalition. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sure you've noticed that we're balancing on the edge of the censor gap and non-freedom. The abolition of the position of a government misinformation agent does not change the efforts of a five-wheeler to get under the control of the media in any way, so as to strengthen their influence in promoting their authoritarian concept of democracy, i.e. to play democracy, which formally in our public media gives everyone a voice, but selectively to someone only a critical voice and only a commendation to someone. And don't be mad at me, it has nothing to do with democracy and plurality. And that's not my impression of how it might sound here. I'm very careful about these things, and I'm aware of the degree of subjectivity. You will find this if you are really honest about the analysis that Czech Television has commissioned for Media Tenor. This analysis was paid from licence fees, was approved by the Council of Czech Television and is publicly available. If you read into these graphs, I recommend... [[He's showing the material.]] There's a really... I want you to look at the charts and the analysis, so I just want to pull out what stopped me. The period covered by this analysis was the pre-election period before the parliamentary elections, which was one month. And my impressions and my conclusions are that the ČT in its main news session The events in the month before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies broadcast about the movement YES 62 negative messages, about ODS, TOP 09 and STAN one. In this session 62 negative reports towards the ANO movement were 15 percent of the contributions, whose authors are editors, journalists from the Czech Republic. Journalists did not tell ČT any negative information about the coalition of SPOLU, on the other hand 11 percent of the news of ČT's editors about the coalition of SPOLU was positive. There is no negative message from the press of Czech Television about the coalition of SPOLU during the election week according to the analysis. So, although the YES movement was a government force at the time, and it is clear that it has been more criticized, this inequality is striking to me. If we dedicate ourselves to the discussion programme of Questions by Václav Moravec, in the month before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, he was by far the most confrontational of the ANO movement. Only one confrontational question was received by a guest from ODS, Mr. Miloš Vystnutí, representatives of STAN did not receive any. Well, that's just for drawing. And I would like to repeat that I am not saying this as a MP or a politician, but an analysis of Media Tenor created for Czech Television for the money of dealers and subsequently approved by the Czech Council. Today we are discussing a government amendment to the law according to which members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are to vote for both chambers of Parliament. The number of members of the Czech Television Council is to increase from 15 to 18. The Chamber of Deputies should vote for two thirds of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio, the Senate one. The minimum duration of the existence of legal persons that may be proposed by the councillors for ten years should be fixed. Both the government and the petitioner claim that this is about strengthening the independence of key public service media and also the stability of parliamentary democracy in this country for the future. As shadow minister for the culture of the strongest opposition movement YES and a longtime member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I think that is not the case. The amendment from the workshop of those who have full mouth democracy is discriminatory, unconstitutional and contrary to European legislation, is burdened with conflict of interest and violates the rule of the rule of law. It is neither a strengthening of the independence of the public service media nor a strengthening of the stability of democracy. He just wants to consolidate the current distortion of public media in favour of the ruling coalition. All the more so when this amendment is due to come into force during the tender for the director of Czech Television. [[11.40 hours]] I confess, and I am sorry that the previous government did not in time recognize the totalitarian danger to democracy that was hiding behind the obstructions of the opposition at the time in the election of the Czech Television Council. Unfortunately, time has shown that five coalitions were not about freedom and pluralism of public media at all, but only about controlling them. And that's all it is in this novel. The government's five-calice is nothing more than to consolidate its influence on public media and concrete the state that suits it. We read about the excesses of public television, including the inappropriate behaviour of its executives daily. I repeat the report on who was party to public television, it is publicly available on the website of the Czech Television Council during the elections in 2021. And I really recommend you study it. If you want an example in the third time, for me it is rather striking that the ODS MP did not hesitate to contribute tens of thousands of dollars to public money to the public television editor for his private literary work. Don't you think that's weird? You'll probably want even more evidence of the link between public media and five-police. I will be able to get to them in a moment, but before that, as a politician who understands the international context that understands the foreign policy anchoring of our country and the meaning of the words democracy and freedom, I must strongly point out that the amendment to the law, which the five-wheelers are trying to push through in this way in the Chamber of Deputies, has several defects, and that is fundamental. Firstly, the amendment is in sharp conflict with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on audiovisual media services. It allows political parties to nominate their representatives in the ranks of public media and discriminates against the appellants by determining the length of their existence. If the amendment is approved in this form, we will initiate a complaint with the European Commission. Second, the novel is breaking the constitution. This guarantees citizens a level playing field in the election of public office. The amendment to the Czech Television and Radio Act violates this equality of conditions in my opinion. The councillors elected by the Chamber of Deputies will have access to public office considerably more difficult than the Councillor elected by the Senate. While the election of plenary in the Chamber of Deputies precedes the election committee by excluding part of the candidates from the election in advance, the amendment does not include an amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure Act, which does not have that mechanism. Please note that if the amendment is approved in this form, the members of the ANO movement will submit a motion to the Constitutional Court for its annulment. Thirdly, the discussion of the amendment on the regulation of public media is accompanied by an unprecedented, from my point of view really unprecedented, conflict of interest. There's been a discussion about this in the previous discussion in the factual notes, and I'll recap here. The rapporteur for the amendment to the key law in the first and second reading is Mr Lacina of the STAN movement, who, even here when he was called upon, did not clarify his conflict of interest and that he is trading with the Czech Television. And let us just remember that, in a very non-standard way, my colleague Lacina was elected rapporteur to this law, because it has always been a good custom for a government law to report opposition MPs. And, hey, the Organizing Committee overruled that decision. All right, I get it. But in that case, my colleague Lacina, and I don't want to give him everything bad, certainly wants to improve the situation on Czech TV, but if he knew - and he had to know, because he is the manager of the company that trades with Czech television - he wanted to accompany and enforce this law so vehemently, why didn't he perform at first reading and say that he has a business relationship with Czech television? After all, the House could have voted on this, and it would have been all right, and not that at the edge of the third reading, we learn from the media that I think it is a unique conflict of interest. And it really isn't acceptable for me to come on a microphone and say he doesn't actually know about it. No one can believe that. I repeat again - the executive of this company, the sole executive. I must reiterate that if the amendment in this form is approved with the rapporteur who accompanied this statutory standard in two important readings, I can certainly, and I can promise that here, we will prepare a complaint to the European Commission for Conflict of Interests and Breaking the Rules of the Rule of Law. Fourthly, the amendment to the Czech Radio and Czech Television Act comes at the moment when the Czech Television Council announced a tender for the CEO of Czech Television. It is quite obvious that if the law is passed and becomes effective, as Minister Baxa suggests, it will become effective at the time of the ongoing selection procedure for the Director-General and will intervene in the election as such. If I ignore the effort to influence this election at all, anyone who does not succeed in the election of the Director-General will be able to challenge the process. Colleagues and colleagues, I am a great realist and I can count and I know that the ANO movement does not have the numerical strength to reverse these totalitarian tendencies of the current Fialův Government in the legislative process. But we will use all the tools to point out the desperate state of the legal consciousness of this five-calice, which is trying to destroy the remnants of freedom of speech and pluralism of opinion that divides this society, divides voters into democratic and undemocratic. That's unacceptable to me. We live in one world. It's not our world and it's not the world of five-wheelers. It's our world together. And the task of the ruling five-calice party, who is with the government, is to agree on key laws, their adjustments, their opposition, to pass those laws, to be respected by everyone, and we didn't have to meet in the courts. Dear Government, Minister, allow me the challenge, and I will say it every time I have the opportunity, I apologize for the lay division of laws, but the laws are essential to me, and then the laws that you can push not according to the Rules of Procedure, but according to your political assignments by the majority. But the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, the Constitution or the Pension Insurance Act, which we will discuss next week, these are the laws that the opposition should be involved in preparing so as not to invoke (?) such a breakdown in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. Mrs Schillerová is making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have now listened with appallment to my colleague about some conflict of interests of Mr Lacina. Please, Mr President, through the Vice-President, come explain the conflict of interest. Explain, clean yourself up. Say it's not true, or that it's different, or that it's just... That's how it is. This means that you are the CEO of a company that trades with Czech TV and you are easily nominated, in a non-standard way through the organizational committee, as the rapporteur of this law? Well, this is your world again, Minister. This is hell! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Baxa is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor. If I use the words of President Schiller, I really listened to the first part of Pokorná Jermanová's performance with horror. And I'd like to challenge you, my colleague, or just give you a little recommendation. We certainly share in some topics the willingness to participate in some joint actions. You're going to a seminar on a public cultural institution. I'd be happy to get out there and give my opinion. But I would ask you to hold a seminar in which you will define the YES view of the public media. Because I really have to say that I haven't heard such a performance in a long time actually based on the fact that you accused public media of bias, of being pro-government, of supporting our coalition, of some kind of analysis that is not based on a broader context. So be it. But if this is what you consider to be the main problem, arrange a seminar that will be called the ANO view of public media. Because I think that such a strong parliamentary party should not be concerned in the public that you want public media that will be obedient to the government. And I'm the one who just took away from your gig, which was bitter, insulted, kind of like it was built on a feeling of injustice. [[11.50 hours]] Well, I don't want public media to bow down to the one who rules, really, but obviously you do. Organize the seminar, I'd love it. We dive deeper and deeper into the fact that our view of the role of public media differs much more, and that it is all the more important that we are putting forward here a bill that limits, making it more difficult for politicians to have further influence on public media. And then just one personal note. We're in politics, I respect that. I'm sorry you didn't make such substantial legal comments about the bill in any previous reading. But, of course, it's your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is invoking the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u126	Minister, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Analysis of the Czech Television pre-election broadcast, which deals with period 3. 9... 8. 10. 2021. It was about news, discussion shows, publicity, pre-election formats. The analysis followed ten television sessions with a total footage of 117 hours and 35 minutes. This was ordered by Czech Television, paid from licence fees. And it's just to sit down and read it and think about the graphs. I didn't blame anyone here. I leaned on this analysis. And again, of course, many of us have a subjective feeling. That's one thing. But I'm avoiding him. Minister, if you were a man enough to come to me at the beginning of your period and say, "We want to change the law on Czech Radio, Czech Television," I would say, "Yes, let's talk about it." But yes, you would have come across the fact that we're not going to divide it into two novels, as you said, one tender and some rough. I think the novel was supposed to be complex. You only started working on it recently because your main goal was to quickly make this tender amendment to influence the choice of director of Czech Television. And I've asked you here several times to answer me why it couldn't wait until the big novel was ready. I didn't get an answer. So maybe you could hold a seminar and explain it to us there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u127	Thank you. The Minister wanted to respond factually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not questioning you, colleague. pokorný Jermanová, through the Vice-President, that you said some numbers here in the analysis, but I was very interested in your view, in which you actually wrapped the comment, which was just wronged and when you actually said that Czech TV is a pro-government medium. Well, I just have a feeling, too, and I don't want to verbalize it here. I will then discuss in my larger speech the individual contributions that have been made here from the mouths of your colleagues, in which they defined their view of the public media and their role. But you're the shadow minister of culture, which is why I think the public should probably know what public media is supposed to be. Are they supposed to be pro-government? You're accusing the contemporary Czech TV of maintaining the YES movement, so you said so. Then organize the seminar and tell us what public media is supposed to be. I am convinced that they should be such that they do not be subject to any political influence, so that impartially, strongly, hardly, from the left, they judge from the right what is happening in the public media. But I guess that's where we're different. I'd really like to hear your idea. I just looked at the composition of the electoral committee, which you are not a member of. Once again, I understand the role of the opposition - the coalition in the House, but if you say, Madame, at the third reading, that this bill is unconstitutional, that it is contrary to the legislation of the European Union, perhaps a little bit of such as a basic correctness could have been and you could have said it at first and second reading, if you had not found it then now. Your colleagues, perhaps Mr Juchelka is an expert in this area, I very much appreciate his opinion, he has not once said that the YES movement considers the law to be unconstitutional and contrary to European regulations. But I will ask my colleagues, and if you file a constitutional complaint as an YES movement, the Constitutional Court will resolve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. We have two facts here. First Mr Lacina, then Mrs Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u130	I dare to answer the question raised by Alena Schillerová. You can find the answer in the log. I cannot answer every YES MEP who is not here, comes and asks that question again. So if this were to happen again, it's already in the log, I think I've explained it quite clearly. Secondly, I'd like to fix one thing. I was not the rapporteur for second reading, but for first reading only, for second and third reading only, the rapporteur is Mr Juchelka, designated by your colleague, Kolovratník Coloratrodník, who is undoubtedly very pleased about this. And then perhaps I would also like to respond to my colleague Juchelka, who said that YES is a democratic party. I congratulate you on that, of course, but I just read in the paper the day before yesterday the statements of a rather significant member, today perhaps no longer a member of the same region, which says: IN YES you are either a servant or an enemy. And that may be the answer to Minister Bax's idea of what the CEO of Czech Television should look like in the world we've been talking about for so long today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u131	The next enrollment is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u132	Well, I'll take the liberty of responding first to my colleague Lacina at the moment. I'm sorry, Minister, because I have to say the reaction here. Mr Lacina, through Mr President, I do not understand what this factual point was supposed to mean because it was not at all about the present case. And I'm just gonna ask the Vice President to keep an eye on it next time, because it was completely out of order. But now to the Minister. Minister, I don't blame Czech TV. I'm accusing you, your government, of wanting to control the Czech TV properly. And I would expect us to come to the round table and discuss if we are already opening the law, whether the financing method is right, whether there is a need to find a better model, whether the soft novel should be part of the big novel. There's a lot of stuff that's there to solve. But by separating these two amendments from each other, you just stressed that your efforts are the only one, and that is to control the choice of director of Czech Television. And I don't have any Czech Television and Czech Radio candidates... Please don't yell at me. [[He's turning right.]] My great wish is that the public service media, as they are called, really carry out their service and lead it to be a person who will be a professional who will not be influenced. I think we can agree on that. Unfortunately, the step you want to take through this tender novel, as you say, speaks of the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u133	President Schillerová, then President Jakob and then Minister Baxa, still in fact only.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u134	Then, Mr Lacina, through the Vice-President, you will also find this answer in the tapestry. Now you've carried out an evaluation here, you, through the Vice-President, a member of the STAN movement, which gave this country a dozimetr and a slepičák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u135	Chairman Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u136	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It's the same thing over and over again. I'm sorry, I think I'm running out of time. [[The President shall adjust the time.]] Thank you. It's the same here over and over again. In my opinion, I'm judging you. We don't want to control any media. [[Laughter on the left.]] You're always trying to control something and you're trying to assert your power. It's your world we're talking about here. We are concerned with the independence of the public service media. [[12.00 hours]] And the question about why they're split novels. So the shadow minister probably didn't notice the long-term public debate on the system of media councils. I'm sorry she hasn't noticed it in two decades, but the discussion's been going on for a really long time. We found a match on her. It is also quite obvious from the discussion that in the past, no further and shifts to other models are real in our environment, so there is a clear consensus. That's why. And since it's a key part of the law, it's a separate novel. And all other issues need to be, and I consider this to be very crucial and important, the sustainability of public service media financing, so we need to have another discussion on this. Unfortunately, this discussion hasn't been going on in this public space for so long. I welcome the fact that some of my colleagues also organized seminars on the definition of a taxpayer and so on. This is certainly an asset in this discussion, but it is taking place, unlike what we are discussing here. That's why the two things are separate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. We have two factual points here, Minister Baxa and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Everyone, please, let's stick to the really really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really. There were two little fights between us, I let it go, now we're back on point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. I'm really trying to respond in these debates to what's going on. But I would just like to ask Ms. Pokorná Jermanová, quite friendlyly, to bring the record, such as the tape of where I described the novel as tender - it is possible that I said so, I am not aware - that there is really true information here. So, Madam, please find us and let us know where I called this novel tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u139	Thank you. The last de facto Mrs Pokorná Jermanová so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u140	Then I must respond to my colleague Jakob. Mr. Jakob, through the President, Mr. Chairman of the club, so as not to deny you any credit, this debate on public media has been going on for years. But over the past ten years, there hasn't been a single proposal for their novel. He wasn't here. I vaguely remember my former colleague, Mr Komárek, who once held a seminar on the Bavarian model here, and he didn't get much support from your side either. But all right, let's just get this straight. And, Minister, I don't mind, I like the label, it's not a bad thing. You said it today during your speech, so I'm sorry, I'm gonna find it in the tape screen, it's not important. But I like the label, because we can prepare for the second novel, which will probably be very nutritious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Mr. Member, or President Jakob, and then Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u142	Well, thank you. I really need to respond because there's no real information here. It is not true that - and I am sorry that the shadow minister has no idea - that there are no legislative proposals. About 16 years ago, there was a Senate bill approved by the Senate. So he came here as a legislative initiative of the Senate and was not discussed here. And I suspect that, in the previous parliamentary term, a parliamentary proposal was tabled almost across the spectrum, and some of your colleagues were signed there, and it was essential to introduce a model similar to that of Bavarian. Again he was not discussed at all, I guess he didn't even get to the first reading. So let's put the facts as they are here. It is not true, it is probably out of ignorance that there are no legislative proposals. At least two were.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. Mrs Marečková Vildumetzová, then Mr Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u144	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I, on the basis of what is being said here, have said this many times that I do not consider this law to be a law for citizens of this country, because I think that we should deal with much more important things that plague citizens. And I will take the liberty at this moment, because I can, so I will have the procedural proposal to suspend the negotiations of this House's press by 1 January 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. There is an interest in counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will allow myself to put a procedural motion to suspend the discussion of this point by 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. So let's vote, I'll go. Now we have to vote on the counterproposal. Another one, yes. So 15 minutes, and then I'll...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u148	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the liberty of counter-proposaling, too. Here, in my opinion, the wrong arguments were that perhaps this amendment is not for people, or I am too much for the rhetoric... [[Voices from the O.R. require reading of the counterproposal.]] No, my colleague also put forward her procedural proposal, introduced my colleague - I respond to it and justify the counter-proposal. [[- Please counter-proposal!]] I think the independence of the public service media is important. It's a matter that needs to be secured for the public. That is why I would like to put forward a counterclaim to interrupt this meeting for five minutes so that colleagues can think about their words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u149	Five minutes, then. So I'll check you out at the moment and ask you to sign in. I hereby initiate the vote. We will vote on the first counterproposal of the second, which was interrupted for five minutes, then for 15 minutes and finally on the interruption of this point by 1. 1st year 2024. So we're voting to interrupt for five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 3 registered 148, for was 6, against 72. Denied. Now we're going to vote on 15 minutes of interruption. Initiating the vote and asking who's up for a 15-minute interruption? Who's against it? In vote number 4 registered 148, for were 3, against 75. Denied. [[12.10 hours]] We will therefore now vote on the interruption of this point to 1. 1. 2024. Initiating vote. [[Objection that there is no vote.]] It's not. It just popped in here, so I'm gonna ask... It's on now, so I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 5 registered 150, for was 68, against was 78. Denied. And we can continue the negotiations. We have other factual points, and this is Mr Babka, then Mr Jiří Horák and then Mr Karel Krejza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u150	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that I can respond here in fact, so maybe I will just allow myself to join colleagues from the STAN movement and from the TOP 09, to Mr Lacin and Mr Jakoba. If you're proposing a vote, a procedural vote, you should be the logical one for the proposal you're proposing. So just for the next time, I think it would be very logical. Back to the law on Czech Television and Czech Radio. It fell here before we voted, so here we were debating the two novels, the fact that one is small, or if you want to be tender, and that the big one, which is probably going to be tough or whatever, is being prepared. But we still haven't learned the question that we've been asking here for almost three hours, and that's why we're sitting here at an extraordinary meeting at all, and we're talking about this little novel, this tender novel, which brings nothing that can't wait for the big, complex novel, whose acceptance, whether it's going to be this year or next year, or from 2025, when maybe the big amendment could come into force, so it doesn't solve anything at all, it doesn't in any way reduce the years that will eventually be in office by you newly elected councilmen. And we still have this answer to the simple question of why we are here at an emergency meeting dealing with this law, why we cannot postpone its validity from 1. 1. 2024 and why we must intervene by this law in the already announced and currently ongoing competition of Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u151	Thank you. We have one de facto - Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u152	Thank you. I'm just going to maybe just smile a little bit more and really ask, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, through the Vice-President, to find me where I have spoken about this tender novel in this tape, and then, if you don't find it, I'm going to ask my colleagues to say, as our shadow minister of culture says, a gentle and harsh amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u153	Thank you, and with priority rights, Mrs Dostálová is registered. Vice-President Dostálová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u154	Thank you, Vice-President, for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I originally thought that I would not really speak on this subject, but really of all the monitors we have here in the House, here I hear how it is your world and our world, and here I must clearly confirm the words of my esteemed colleague Jarka Jermanová that this is our common world, please. We live in one Czech Republic and should behave accordingly. And then, of course, I was a little sadd by the remark, through you, Mr Vice-President Jakob, who said that we're plowing something here. So I just want to say that it's not our law, it's not the law of the opposition. Even we didn't call an emergency meeting. So please, like the opposition and the ANO movement, there's really nothing going on here. On the contrary, I would like to think about the fact that we here in the Czech Republic are really dealing with a number of quite fundamental problems, really fundamental problems, starting with inflation, energy prices, poverty, the critical state of public funds, and we are calling an emergency meeting for the Czech Television Act. And I was just perceiving what my colleagues were saying, of course, asking a lot of questions here. I understand the importance of the public service media, I understand the importance of the media that they play in our daily lives, but I really do not understand the obsession with why we have to call an extraordinary meeting to the Czech Television Act, what is so very important about it, what is so urgent. And since I would really like to hear the answers from the Minister on our questions, because that is your bill, not opposition, I have prepared a whole bunch of questions, and I promise to speak slowly so that the Minister will be able to record them. So it would be really important for me to know what a dysfunctional or surviving model is, for example, the choice of media councils compared to what it is today. What is currently wrong with the operation of individual advice when we want to change it? What actually solves the increase in the number of councillors in the case of Czech Television by three councillors? What's the point of raising the number of councillors? What do you expect it to bring? Do you think that will make Czech TV more balanced? Do you think that citizens who are dissatisfied with the broadcast of Czech Radio or Czech Television will decline? Whether the expansion of the media council will bring better public media management? Or isn't the whole amendment just part of a censored coalition? Why are you fellow Members trying so hard to fight this change into the law at a time when it's obvious that you're starting to worry about a little bit of public opinion? Because, as I said before, the Czech Republic is really living in very different problems right now. And it's obvious that the media are already starting to pay attention to it, and the discontent of citizens is emerging somewhere, so if this can't be a motive for you being afraid of certain opinions in public space. Whether it is a coincidence that you are trying to regulate the media, ban uncomfortable websites, punish citizens for their opinion right at this time, unless it is an opinion that is completely in line with government policy, but unfortunately, the Czech Republic has so many problems that these disgruntled and dissenting opinions will increase, and so whether we will ban them as a slam and simply no negative opinions will appear in the public space? Or is it really the choice of CEO of Czech Television coming up here? Because I keep asking myself that question, if we're going to solve really intense problems for our citizens, why are we dealing with the Czech Television Act at an emergency meeting? Or can it really be the kind of effort to limit public space for some political debate, or even whether you're worried - I'm sorry, it's just questions, I'm just not going to say the essay exercises, because it's really important to talk about those issues - that you need media space to help keep the 100-year-old in the Chamber of Deputies at all? It is quite important to me and I am wondering whether you really did not think that the problem with the public media might be much wider and that it should start at a completely different stage than the choice of media councils. I think it is very necessary to start by defining first what a public media service is in 2023. And I will never divide it into one of yours - our world. We're just living in a common space here, and by not really having this discussion across the political spectrum, so I guess he's just gonna have to hear from you what a public media service is in 2023. [[12.20 hours]] I note that Czech Radio and Czech Television operate here according to the law of 1991. I think it would be necessary to start a debate on the media financing system of the public service. We have heard several times that the current method of financing is still unsustainable. A clear stance by the government coalition on the future of public media funding is needed. Do you want to raise your fees? I understand that this is a major problem at this time of brutal inflation, the crisis. Or do you want to keep them as they are? But then, of course, you limit production and broadcasting of Czech Television. But, unfortunately, that's the tax on government. You're just gonna have to say it out loud, and so far, the opposition is being blamed for us saying something like we would have imagined. Well, this discussion should have been before the amendment to the Czech Television Act was proposed. Or do you want to give these fees as a mandatorial expense, which means a permanent expenditure of the state budget? I understand that it is very difficult today, when the state budget is in the state in which it is unfortunately in, when it has forgotten to put in a lot of other, other mandatory expenses, à la pensions, and suddenly there would also be a mandatorial expenditure as payment of Czech television. In my opinion, you must know that the Czech Television has managed with a minus over the last few years and has achieved a balanced economic result only because it drew from the so-called fee fund, but there is really very little money left, about 700 million crowns. In my opinion, the most important, one of the most important roles of the ruling party, or the government coalition, ruling - and now forgive me the word - the party in the Chamber of Deputies is to ensure transparency in the public media. Wouldn't it be worth it to start dealing with the well-known blackened contracts of Czech Television? Wouldn't it be worth it to finally stop hiding salaries and contracts of employees and co-workers of Czech Radio and Czech Television? If we don't do this and we just don't answer those questions that aren't motivated badly towards anyone, but I just think that the debate was missing here, so it's really -- don't be mad, Minister, by your way, Mr Vice-President, but everyone has to think that there's something different about it, because the most important debate about why the Czech Television law should change is simply not here. So, so far, logically, everyone in that so-called back subconscious has to be called - so this is really a political struggle? Is this about controlling the media? Is this about us taking over the position of director so that the media can help us in our governance because they're gonna be obliged or indebted to us, or any other word like that? I hope that's not true. But if we don't answer the questions that I have raised here, which are alpha omega of why Czech television may be in trouble and so on, and we've been dealing with this since the end, how quickly to occupy media councils and CEOs, that really seems like a huge problem. I think that this really should not happen in such an advanced society of our common world. Let's go back to the beginning, let's all have fun together, what can be done for Czech TV, but let's not start at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u155	Thank you. I was here with the priority right of Minister Baxa, but in the meantime, Mr Juchelka has made a factual claim, so he has the right to take action. Then there's the priority right - the minister. But Mr. Lacina wants a factual one? Right after Mr. Juchelek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. I listened very carefully to the whole speech by Vice-President Dostálová and really a number of questions that were raised there, so it should really be addressed rather by the big amendment to the Czech Television Act. I would just like to say that we, as the opposition, are really trying to ask these questions, and we are even trying to do practical things, for example, recalling the seminar that we have been doing on the regulation of the taxpayer, and we will continue to do so, because the debate over the big amendment - and I thank the Minister very much that he invited us to it, even though we have no specific term yet - should therefore begin. And I don't know why, but at this point, we're dealing with this little novel. I do, actually. It's for the reasons we're constantly presenting here. And it is the questions that the Vice-President has asked that we should really start answering them, preferably even now. I know that the Minister is ready Dostálová answer, by your means, Mr President, so I firmly believe that we will eventually get there. But we still don't understand why this little amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act is on the table at this time, at this time, at this time, why this little amendment cannot simply and simply be incorporated into the upcoming big amendment, because sometimes I feel like maybe the big amendment might not be here even during the parliamentary term. I hope the will is still there, because what is most troubling Czech TV is not the councillor's choice, it is not the choice of the CEO on 7 June, but it is indeed a change in funding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u157	Thank you for keeping time. And Mr Lacina is reporting from the point of view. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u158	Thank you very much. I join Aleš Juchelek, the change in funding is a second, equally important, perhaps even more important condition of the independence of the public service media, the work on it is already running and I hope that they will be completed as quickly as possible with your support. And then a note. I join my colleague Jakoba, who has made a list of legislation here, or attempts at amendments that have already taken place by the House on this subject, and thus responded to Mrs Jermanová, who said that nothing like this has ever happened here in the House. Well, I've got a little present for her. That's the attempt on the novel. It is signed by Martin Komárek, Marie Benešová, Karel Schwarzenberg, Petr Gazdík, Ivan Gabal, Marek Černoch and others and it is from 2013 to 2017. I already have it at home once, so I'm going to dedicate it to you so you can study after nights what you intended eight years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for keeping time. Another, with a factual point, is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u160	I, Mr Lacina, thank you, through Madam President. I was here talking about this Bavarian model in connection with a seminar that he held more than - now I will count - seven, eight years a colleague of Komárek. But, Mr Lacina, through Madam President, please give a gift to the House and explain to us how it is possible that you did not know or say that you did not know that you had a business relationship with the Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u161	I also thank you for keeping time. And now with priority rights, Minister Baxa is registered. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u162	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will therefore begin my speech, a recommendation which is totally not my place to make, but I will still do it, so I am putting an ANO movement in the dime to the present members of the shadow government, whether they would like to extend the local development portfolio to a cultural portfolio, because I have finally received unpleasant but clearly structured questions that have come from a different side to my address than my colleague Juchelka, whom I have already said very much, and we are having our media debates. I, Madam Vice-President, made quick remarks, even during the remarks I wrote a pen, so I have it partly green, I wrote 17 points and I will really honestly try to respond briefly to your questions. Question number one was what is the dysfunctional model of existing councils. I am convinced that it cannot be said that this model would be inoperable, but I am sure that it is good in situations like this, that is, the present time, to strengthen - I want to stress this - the resilience of public media, and one of those ways is definitely the Senate's involvement in the election of those councillors. That is, if we assume a situation where the Chamber of Deputies has one, I would say a clearer political view, then the involvement of the Senate will simply complicate again and again the possible political influence on the inclusion of members of the Councils of Public Media. [[12.30 hours]] That's why I'm here mediated to the question that's already been asked. I don't think the thirty years that there's a model of public councils can be described as dysfunctional. On the contrary, those council elections have repeatedly shown that it can be a functional model, but it seems to us after years of experience that the extension of councillors and the involvement of councillors in the election of senators simply strengthens the resilience of public media. Why the numbers are increasing. I am convinced that there should be a higher number of councillors in control of Czech television, where this increase is taking place than is currently the case. Each such - and I stress the measured - increase in the number of members simply strengthens the pluralism of opinions with such a key body as those of the media councils. Of course, we have the numerical arguments, the next one, it's without another, but I agreed to this. Czech Television, and Mr Juchelka has rightly said it here, is a multiple institution than the Czech Radio, plays some specific role that the other public media cannot play, or cannot, by spreading over radio waves. More councillors, more opinions. And I want to say one thing. Yes, it costs more money, but, as I said in the first reading, in this case, if the resilience of public media is to be strengthened, money effectively spent. That's what I'm saying in public, and I'm defending it when we're talking about the amount that's going to cost those three extra councilmen to do. The third question asked by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies - what do we expect from this? We expect that there will be a strengthening of the resilience of public media and a reduction of the space of any potential political pressures on the election of Councillors of Czech Television. By the way, there is also a debate currently going on to strengthen the position of those councils not in the legislative sense, as far as competences are concerned, but also their possibilities within the framework of the functioning of, say, some technical-organization within the public media of both, especially Czech Television, so that those councillors simply have better conditions designed to carry out their control activities. I cannot actually agree with the dictum or the content of questions number 4 and 5, but it is, of course, legitimate to ask them. My colleague Dostálová asked whether Czech Television will be more balanced after the adoption of this law and whether it will be less dissatisfied citizens. The answer to this is that this is in no way the aim of presenting this amendment. Because I think that it is extremely dangerous - and I will return to this in the next part of my speech - to consider that any legal standard or amendment to existing laws should contribute to the entry into the way in which the content of public media is prepared. And we're talking, of course, now that you've talked about balance, we're talking logically about news. Then, of course, there is another, much bigger part of where public media works, but now about the news. So I think that the greatest obstacles should be given to politicians influencing public media news, and that is why the answer to the questions is whether - I suppose it sounded that way - more balanced news and less dissatisfied citizens, such that this law does not serve to do so, and I never want to present such a law that interferes with public media news. It's a question, and now I'm just going to turn away from the part that concerns the discontent, and now I'm talking about Czech TV, or we can actually talk about both media. I am generally convinced that, in the context of Europe, for example, we have above-standard, well-functioning public media. And now I'm leaving that part of the review or the view of the news, but all the other services that public media provides. A large number of channels in the case of Czech Radio as well as the programme diversity of both these media, emphasising that production is directed towards all target groups in terms of age, social, response to how the world is changing rapidly, I will mention the project iTransmitting Czech Television, and no doubt today there are programmes that produce, for example, Czech Television, which have clearly European levels, and it has already been appreciated many times. We often narrow the debate to the issue of news coverage, but there is also another very important content that public media produce, even of course I would say much larger in volumes, and it shows great quality. Question number 7 was whether we were afraid of public opinion, question number 9, whether we were afraid of public opinion, question number 10, whether we wanted to punish citizens for opinion, question number 11, whether - renumbered, I was wrong to number it - question number 10, whether we wanted to use the fight against misinformation as a tool to suppress freedom of speech. I'll sum up the answer to all these four questions. No, no way. Above all, I think that to suspect our government that in any way - I stress in any way - it wants to restrict the basic democratic... or the fundamental principles of the functioning of freedom and democracy in our country by violating freedom of speech is impossible. It's absurd to think our government wants to limit freedom of speech. And I respect that the opposition has the right to speak any opinion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That's what parliament is for. But a colleague, colleagues, the lightness with which you use this might sometimes lead you to look in the mirror and wonder: " Am I still speaking in a way that makes sense? That's the thing. If we're talking about it, someone here just said it - I'm not like a colleague who says I said she was a gentle novel, but I didn't say it - but one of you today or at some of the previous discussions was talking about implementing totalitarian practices. Colleagues, colleagues, let's think a little bit about what we're saying. Many of us here experienced the regime before 1989, many of us know what it means to suppress freedom of speech, what it means to attack the fundamental values of our society, many of us have known and friends who were in prison before 1989 for saying things that were not nice to the regime at the time. So, please, let us deal more carefully with what freedom of speech and violation of the right to freedom of speech is. Yes, of course, I take a legitimate debate about how it should look... or whether the state is to formulate its security policy in the fight against misinformation, where there are limits where the disinformation that serves as a tool of war for Putin's Russia is to be perceived as a used weapon and so it should be treated and when it is a fragile border where the impression of a violation of freedom of speech could already arise. Question 11 was whether we wanted to influence the election of the CEO, so-called "fast-pressed" amendment to this law. The answer is no. I prepared an amendment to the law, which is in line with the programme statement, in January last year, a few weeks after I joined the Ministry of Culture. Let me repeat, we disagreed as a ministry with the Legislative Council of the Government. Not that the bill was called unconstitutional. The Government's Legislative Council has raised reservations as to whether some of its aspects may be unconstitutional. My highly qualified lawyers in my ministry disagreed with this view, it was an opinional clash of lawyers, sorry, a professional clash of lawyers, but since the accusation of some potential insurrection would undoubtedly burden this proposal from the outset, so we decided to comply with what the Legislative Council of the Government had written, and we continued in a modified form. [[12.40 hours]] I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it, it's not gonna bring anything, but I'm just saying, The pokorný Jermanová here will say that the YES movement suddenly sees the bill as unconstitutional in itself. The Government's Legislative Council did not identify other unconstitutional aspects of the law. I am sorry that you, my colleague, through the Vice-President, have not said these very serious comments to your members of the Election Committee, and I believe that your colleagues, such as the Chairman of the Juchelka Committee, would certainly confront us during this discussion after the first reading and after the second reading that the law is unconstitutional. But I accept that you have kept this heavy caliber, including the fact that the ANO movement will file a constitutional complaint about the insurrection of the law, except for the third reading. Question number 12 was whether we should define the public media service in 2023. When I began to prepare, carefully read, or recall the bill, our bill, our draft amendment to the law, and on that occasion carefully read both laws, the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act, I again recalled how our predecessors were extremely prudent in this area thirty years ago in the founding times of our democratic free system. The law, Madam Vice-President, on that basis, does not need any change in the definition of the public service of Czech Television and Czech Radio. It is surprising, the laws are being amended, changed, but then, perhaps under the influence of the velvet revolution ethos, the emphasis on the role of public media to play, the gros of this law, the definition of public service, for which public media should serve as the key pillars of freedom and democracy, I think it does not need any change, nor do we want to propose any such change in the so-called big amendment. I think the definition is correct. Of course, what we have to do and what is happening in both public media is a response to rapid technological developments. She couldn't close her eyes, and she didn't close them before there was an iShow, so adjust formats and so on. Question number 13 is the question of funding public media. That's a very serious question. And if any of my previous speakers mentioned that ten years - probably a colleague Pokorná Jermanová, I think - for ten years there have been no amendments that should address anything from the public media, especially in terms of funding, so I can just bend my shoulders. One government was under the leadership of the Prime Minister of the ANO movement, in the previous government the YES movement was a key coalition partner, although neither government had a Minister of Culture. And we've decided to do that, we've made a commitment to this in our programming statement, and now we're having a really difficult debate. Because I am convinced that there is not just some simple increase in licence fees, if it is at all a way to increase licence fees. As I mentioned here in one of the previous speeches, in one of the previous meetings of the House, we are dealing with the refining of the tax - pardon, tax, I apologize - the payer of the concessionaire, Mr Juchelka has already mentioned this. There are different models, the connection to the apparatus extended not only by the classic TV screens, but to all the instruments where broadcasting can be received, the German model, which contains the so-called plug model, i.e. household charging. What we certainly don't want to do and what I want to rule out here on this occasion is to abandon the principle of licence fees. There are European countries that are currently coming to this. At the time of our Presidency, I had a very interesting conversation with the Minister of Culture of France, Mrs Malak, who said that they had cancelled the licence fees, they would finance the public media from the state budget for some time, and during that time they would be looking for a new financing model. I would consider such a step risky, so we will always be in the field of licence fees and looking for some sustainable solution for financing Czech television. Question number 14 was whether this amendment should lead to greater transparency in Czech television's economy. I am generally convinced that strong media councils, extended in the case of Czech Television, with good conditions for their work and with supervisory commissions that they choose for this purpose, are good tools for controlling the transparency of public media. We have in the government's programme statement that the management of public media, Czech Television and Czech Radio can be supervised by the Supreme Audit Office. Here is one of the few things about our cultural programming statement, where I am not quite sure that we will succeed by the end of our term of office, because it is an amendment to the Constitution, which is always a very complicated matter, but we intend to do so. I think the SAO involvement is supposed to be there. I feel that we do not differ with you as opposition Members in this regard, that this is simply the right way. So I believe that we will come to this, too. Question number 15 was about political influence on the content of public media. In that part, let's say, more exciting debates conducted through factual remarks, some colleagues would say, when I say euphemistically - meaning colleagues from the ANO movement - a sharper view of influencing the content of Czech television. I am, of course, firmly convinced - and now I want to emphasise the two sentences that I will say - that, of course, the politically broadcast content of the public media, that is, radio and Czech television, must not be influenced, but I add the latter with full seriousness - I think that is not the case. It's really not like that. It's not that there's been an influence on the political content, that the media has resistance to it, that the news is now, and that it's the right thing to do. That is why there are always such difficult discussions about balance or objectivity, because however rocky these words sound, so when they are used in this debate - and, as they say, words form content, with structural linguists when framed - they must also be treated with great caution. So I don't think there's any political influence on public media. And this amendment is intended to serve to reduce any ideas or considerations of this type, or to reduce the space for them. Last question, 16th - is Czech TV in trouble? I am convinced that there are things that must change in the functioning of the public media. That's why we're going to make this so-called little novel, a novel whose goal is, and we're already at third reading, to increase their resilience. This is why a big amendment is being prepared, which includes various parts of the response to technological progress, the conditions for the functioning of the board, the harmonisation of both of these legislations and, above all, the management. But I'd say Czech TV isn't in trouble. And now we can look at this through the optics of the annual news of Czech Television, which is like a real picture of how this public service - you asked the Vice-President on Czech Television, so I respond - to how the public media of Czech Television works. We need to solve funding, we need to deal with some other things, but otherwise Czech TV works very well. And this is not my external impression, the impression of the viewer of Czech Television, but the annual reports that are being discussed by the Czech Television authorities, and the content that the Czech Television is making, on all aspects, is high quality, from top news, covering for example wars in Ukraine, to programmes that serve as television entertainment in the most own or in the best sense of the word. So that's what I'd say, what's the most immediate answer, Madam Vice-President, to your 16 questions asked. Of course, I am ready to respond further in the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u163	Thank you, Minister. Your performance brought up two factual points. So the first Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u164	So, Minister, I wish for someone else as Minister of Culture. I wish, like many of us, a completely different government, but there's nothing you can do about it. I have to ask you, he won't give it to me, because the question still hangs in the air here: Do you mind that the little amendment is linked to the conflict of interest that we have indicated here, about which colleague Lacina said that he does not exist, that he is not aware of it, and on one of those contracts is his own signature? I suppose it would disturb me at least, because Mr. Lacina has put himself in a position that he is the one who is fighting for your law, which you consider to be very important, but I just don't hear the answer here. Sorry, Mr Lacina, through Madam President, you lied here. And you lied to the microphone, and it's in the stew. And I really don't think it's good. Minister, back to the financing of Czech television. I didn't say there's been no talk of this for ten years. I said it would definitely be the subject of the big novel you're about to make, and that it needs to be discussed, that it is necessary. And as for the licence fees, what's being said, the released balloon, the cell phone holders and, for example, computers, are going to be paying, so you're actually confirming it here. So it's a good thing you're gonna answer anything here because you haven't answered my basic question. Why isn't this little novel part of the big one? I still haven't heard the answer. And one more thing. You can read the stew when I was talking in my speech, and there's always a reason for the passwords I said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, please, electronic applications take precedence, so try to squeeze the gray one, because I always see how you're here, but I can't give you the floor, I have to get electronically logged in first. So now, Mr Juchelka, then Mr Babka. And great. Mr. Lacina, then. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u166	Thank you very much. I will, of course, respond to Minister Baxa. Thank you so much for the answers. I'm sure some of us agree. For example, the Supreme Audit Office should check the licence fees that go to public media. So I'm sure you can count on our votes to have the constitutional majority you're talking about. You know, you're saying that the program, you said on Czech TV, it's high-quality, it's top-notch, and there's also entertainment, which is just very high-level. And that's how I understood that you're actually happy with the activity, like you said on the basis of the annual reports. That is why I really do not understand why government Members voted not to approve reports on the activities of Czech Television. So you're happy with the activity, it's quality, it's top-notch, it's very high in terms of fun shows, but then you deny it with your votes. And that's just the policy of this government. She talks and says something, and then she does and acts. So we're not going to raise taxes, but we're talking about maybe double the real estate tax. We're not going to valorize special pensions... we're not going to change the valorisation mechanism, and we've already got him. We're not going to increase the retirement age, but we're thinking about sixty-eight. We are satisfied with the activities of Czech Television, but we will not approve of their reports of activity. I don't know, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u167	Thank you for keeping time. The next enrollment is Mr. Babka. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u168	Thank you for the floor. I will also respond to the Minister's words. My colleague Aleš Juchelka took it away from me again by clicking the grey button earlier. However, Minister, exactly as has been said here, you said here that Czech television works well, that you are satisfied with it, that you evaluate it on the basis of annual reports. And then we see that two annual reports consecutively were recommended for non-approval or not recommended for approval. How's it going together? A colleague named Aleš Juchelka asked. Well, I'll answer him. It's exactly the world you're talking about, the world we don't live in, you probably live in. This is precisely the fact that you want to have the land ready to withdraw the entire Czech Television Council, if necessary, because it is possible to do so on the basis of the current wording of the law after the approval of two consecutive annual reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u169	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Lacina is also registered. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u170	Thank you very much. So I always say that lying isn't meant to be, not in politics at all, that's what I'm standing on. That is why I am here once more to answer President Schillerová, who unfortunately is not here again, so he won't hear it, and maybe he'll ask me that for the third time. I was explaining my conflict of interest. I was quick to find out when you started talking about it. And the only explanation I could think of is that in the National Theatre, specifically on the New Stage, the Golden Prague Festival takes place every year and that I have been running a café called Café Nona on the New Stage for a long, long time. I can't move the Golden Prague festival anywhere else. The moment someone orders a snack, we're gonna fake it, and the institution is gonna pay for it. Over the years we've been operating in this operation, these institutions are the thousands we've signed this contract with. I don't feel that way about being in conflict of interest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for keeping time. And another logged in is Minister Baxa with a factual remark. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u172	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová has raised a clear question here concerning the conflict of interests of Mr Lacina. I consider Mr Lacina's explanation of the matter you have asked him to be clear, transparent and, in my opinion, in any way that I do not feel that it should be a conflict of interest. And then there's the reaction to the performance of fellow Juchelka and co-worker Babka. I have therefore understood, I do not know how the election committee was held, so I have understood, gentlemen, from your words, through the Vice-President, Mr Babka, Mr Juchelka, that these were annual reports for 2021. I have a feeling this is the case. So I am just saying intuitively from your words that the negotiations took place so that the members of the electoral committee from the government coalition voted against approval, the members of the electoral committee from the opposition voted for approval, that is to say, including President Juchelka. I assume that he voted in favour of these annual reports and that, therefore, my colleague, you share our view - I would like to stress - that Czech television provides good news, entertainment, education and so on. I just want to point out that I here say these words by which I evaluate the content of the public media, in relation to the annual reports because I think that it is always very prudent to consider how politicians assess public media, but I think that we have the basis on which we can say this. Then my colleagues would recommend that you - I'm sorry. [[Time, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u173	Thank you. So another of the applicants is Mr Vomáčka, Mrs Schillerová, Mr Juchelka and President Jakob will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here for this rhetorical counter with all humility. And I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Jermanová, for fighting here like a lioness for a conflict of interest, and she has even found one contract with a signed honored colleague, Lacina. And I welcome the move of the member of YES in this direction that you are starting to deal with a conflict of interest. I'm sorry you guys didn't beat each other like a lioness when there was a conflict of interest between your Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u175	Thank you for keeping time. The next enrollment is President Schillerová. Madam Speaker, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u176	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Lacina, through Madam Vice-President, I just jumped here to buy water. You see me sitting here all the time. I think I am one of the stamina of this hall, unlike most five-police Members. Well, you know what a conflict of interest is? That if you run a cafe - I don't even know where it is, and I don't care - and you're a MP and you get an offer like this from Czech Television, you just naturally reject it. You just say, "I can't. Normally, I could, but I can't, because I'm an MP and it could be a potential conflict of interest. But obviously, from your defense, you didn't even think about it. I'm not suggesting that you got the contract on purpose, that it was just some form of bribery. I wouldn't dare. All I'm saying is that you should have said, "No, I can't do the job." Well, I'm surprised all of you, such experts in conflict of interest, when you know exactly what a conflict of interest is, when they pay and so on. But you only acknowledge him with one single person. As far as you're concerned, there's no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u177	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u178	Thank you very much. So the election committee is always on the committee week, and you, Minister, are invited to every election committee because it's in your opinion of the Ministry of Culture. So I'm sure you could have been present on a committee that didn't approve of the report on the activities of Czech Television. It took place in Ostrava, when we were at an exit meeting, when you could also see the studies of Ostrava's Czech Television and you could also be present on the electoral committee and ask questions. Because you are as surprised as we are here in the opposition that when you have top-quality productions, news and publicity, that suddenly your Members vote that they do not approve of this report on the activities that were excellent, top-notch and which de facto brings down the good work of Czech Television, or you drop it as a government coalition with your votes. So I have exactly the same questions. That means you're probably in some way torn apart into a government coalition. So, of course, I always cordially invite you to the election committee meeting. You can be present there, asking questions exactly the same way. If you ask, my secretariat will, of course, send to your secretariat the minutes of the Ostrava Election Committee meeting, where this nonsense has happened the second time you are in the government coalition. Of course, these reports, as I say, are crucial precisely because two in a row unapproved appeal the whole council under the law. When annual reports from 2016 to 2017, 18, 19, 20 were approved here 14 days ago, the government coalition stopped voting in front of reports from 2021 and 22 - a matter that would last about one and a half minutes, two minutes tops - precisely because of this policy, to withdraw the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u179	Thank you. In addition, Mr Jakob is registered with a factual remark. Mr. Chairman, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u180	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I really have to respond to the huge demagogy we heard a while ago. I'm the rapporteur for one of those annual reports. After all, it concerns the part about the functioning of Czech Television. I'll repeat it here, the Minister has already said it here. I think we can be proud of the functioning of Czech television, it works really well. However, as colleagues on the electoral committee know or should know, the annual report is submitted by the Czech Television Council. There is part of the annual report prepared by the Czech Television Council. In that one case, the annual report, when the Council of Czech Television approved it, in the opinion of not only mine, but also a number of lawyers and some members of the Council who are in the minority, was approved there a change contrary to the law, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Czech Television. That's why we recommended not to approve the annual report. The second was once again the failure of the then Council of Czech Television, where it voted by majority, respectively voting its resolutions again in violation of the law by the majority which it thought it had, and yet it did not have. These are the reasons why it is recommended not to approve these two annual reports. It has nothing to do with the activities of Czech Television itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. It is also signed up with Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Minister Baxa, Mr Juchelka and Mr Lacina will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u182	Thank you. I would like to respond to both the Minister and Mr Lacina, through you. I can't help but see a conflict of interest. According to the last information I found on the web, in September last year, a contract was concluded with the Czech Television for catering and other services of your company, Mr. Lacino, for less than CZK 100,000 without VAT. The law's been here since when? Since June. So I think it's problematic there, and I think it's very wrong and I ask the Minister again if he's okay with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u183	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is registered by Minister Baxa. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u184	Thank you for the floor. I've already answered mine on the previous question. But I was actually just wondering one thing. Because, as I could not attend, Chairman of the Juchelka Committee, through the Vice-President, the Ostrava meeting, I did not know the context. And what Mr. Jakob said here is very interesting. Really very interesting, because it actually gives the context of discussing those reports beyond what you said we were torn apart, which means that some are or are not satisfied with the television activity, and it actually divides the debate into two parts. What was the motive of those members of the electoral committee who did not approve the report or voted in favour of non-approval of the report for 2021. Speaking of the content part - I happen to be speaking to both of you gentlemen, Mr Juchelka, through the Vice-President, and Mr Babka, through the Vice-President - I am actually interested - I confessed - whether you actually judge the Czech television positively or not. You're actually fighting for her here, your colleagues speak quite openly, some are not satisfied, biased, poor choice. I'm going to be doing, I suppose, at the meeting on Friday, a very detailed analysis of what your colleagues here said. So maybe it would also be nice for this to be said not only from me, but now I don't want to say as Minister of Culture, it is not for me, I have no competence to evaluate the activities of Czech television, but as a Member and a citizen. This right here, I have my opinion that I'm assessing it positively. I wonder if you share that view. Maybe it'd be nice to put it that way, too. Then I guess it wouldn't be wrong to send those annual reports to your colleagues who probably don't have enough information about the good functioning of the public media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u185	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u186	Thank you. Of course, we share exactly what you share, that it's an institution that really does the top-level job. However, this does not mean that we cannot be critical of individualities. It's not like we have an altar somewhere called Czech Television, and we're gonna bow to it without being critical. That is, of course, nonsense. [[13.10 hours]] There is not a single sentence in that annual report, nor a mention of what Mr Jakob here was talking about, by your means, that, in some way, the three fifths, or what you said, or the eleven people, have committed a misstep or, on the contrary, did not commit, there is simply not one sentence, yes, in the report on activity. The activity report is a report on the program, a report on how Czech TV works, there are different graphs, cakes, there are dissecting individual program compositions D, Sport and so on, but yet this government coalition took this advice as a hostage, even though there is no comma here on this issue, and it did not approve the report on the activities of Czech TV. And what's the reason? The reason that fell on the record is that the board didn't wrongly approve the Director-General's reward. So when the board pays the Director-General the reward properly, maybe the government coalition will unblock and the activity report will, of course, vote. And now, in light of that hundred thousand-dollar invoice for one person who raised his hand like that, and at the same time - for refusing to approve the report - and at the same time gave the order to pay back the reward to the Director-General... [[The President: Time, Mr. Ambassador]] ...that's actually a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u187	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Lacina. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u188	I volunteered this time as the rapporteur for the annual report, I believe, from 2021. I would like to say, above all, that this error, when the Council voted something five votes out of eleven, which is clearly illegal, is not the only error that has occurred. There are five errors, and I have read them at the end of the last electoral committee, and I assume that we will be returning to them in the near future with the partly replaced leadership of the Czech Television Council. I hope that this will already be on the media committee and not on the electoral committee, because the first amendment to what we are discussing today is a change in the name of the committee so that it corresponds to reality, namely the Committee on Media Affairs. And then I just wanted to make a little comment. We really did not approve the annual reports twice for good reasons. At the same time, however, they contain very interesting data, of which the most interesting for me is credibility, but of course all other figures, which make Czech television and European comparison one of the best and best functioning institutions on this continent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u189	Thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, the application for a factual remark is made by President Jakob. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u190	Thank you. My colleague Juchelka is an extremely skilled demagogist. What he said here is simply not true. As rapporteur for one of those annual reports, of course, I recommended to the Chamber of Deputies the proposal that was then voted by the Election Committee. And in the annual report, of course, there is also a part that focuses on the activities of the Czech Television Council. In addition to the very annual report that I hope we, as colleagues of the committee, have carefully read, and with interest, I also go over the minutes of the Czech Television Council meeting, which approves and presents the annual report to us. And in the annual report, where I was rapporteur, the Council of Czech Television changed the wording of the annual report in a completely incomprehensible way that they voted against the amendment that did not go through, and thus considered it to be an approved amendment, which is a completely absurd procedure that denies any fundamental principles and rules of procedure. That was the real reason. And the part changed, of course, is part of the annual report. So the facts didn't sound the way they really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u191	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Brázdil is also registered with the application, Mr Juchelka will sign up. I just--the minister is really coming back in a minute, so I'm just asking you to be lenient. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u192	Thank you. Well, see, I was just about to answer that question, so maybe he hears it in the bathroom that... He asked us if we are satisfied with Czech television. I mean, I don't know anyone who swears on any kind of nature show... any portfolio of Czech television is good, probably normal, I don't even know if it's bad... and about quality... I'm not the expert. But as far as the news section is concerned, the fact that individual journalists want to use our words to express their opinion, manipulate it, cut it out, somehow decapitate it, that's just the criticism. Just so far, Minister, I wanted to say that yes, Czech Television, there's nothing against her, her portfolio, except that one, and that's that they don't have a mandate to say whether it's right or wrong with our mouths, if you understand me. They actually use us often to say what they want, but they used your name, my name, or someone else's name. That's the criticism, what I told you. You said the question was: are you at all, are you glad we have Czech TV? Yes. There's a lot of good people out there and probably capable people out there. So good, just the abuse or the fact that they want to run this state themselves, point it somewhere -- well, they're not elected. That's all I wanted to say, if you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u193	Thank you for keeping time. And with a final factual remark so far, Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u194	Thank you very much. Every time someone comes out of a government coalition and it's a little bit emotional, natural, he really gets away with what he really wants in this little amendment to the Czech Television Act. So we will not approve of two reports of activity because the board is bad, yes, the board acted badly, but we agree there in the report of activity, because Czech Television is top-notch, but the board is bad, which is why we have to replace the advice that made the top-notch report on Czech Television. And we'll do it in two ways. Be here with this little amendment to the Czech Television Act, and if she doesn't pass, as well as insurance by not approving two reports on the activities of Czech Television. That's the simple logic of this government coalition. And over and over again, when we're talking about this more and more, we're getting more and more kicked out of what we're really after. There is always some marginal reason why we don't approve of the year-round work on x channels that Czech Television operates on top-of-the-line publicity, news, staged production, sports channel, children's channel. We're gonna put the marginary in there because we're only interested in the influence, we're not interested in the Czech TV itself. Here we say, of course, on the microphone, yes, it's obviously a great institution, top-notch and so on. I agree with that, but then I say at this point, why is this government coalition acting differently than what he's talking about? Why does she say the Czech Television activity is top-notch, but doesn't approve of her annual reports? Well, because - it came out in Ostrava - because we are not satisfied with the fact that the reward was reduced to Director General Dvořák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u195	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by President Jakob, followed by Mr Lacina. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u196	Thank you. No one is dumping themselves here, perhaps you, Mr Juchelka, through Madam President. I wouldn't have thought of these structures. However, I want to assure here that no one in the coalition wants to call off the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council as a whole. Absolutely not. And that's what I'm saying on the microphone. In the end, that's why we're cutting the paragraph that makes it possible. And I firmly believe that this amendment will be approved so that this cannot happen in the future. [[13.20 hours]] For those annual reports, I will not repeat it here, there are clear, relevant reasons for the error of the Czech Television Council. I firmly believe that this amendment will be passed and that no one will have to worry about the appeal of the board as a whole and we will be free to decide whether or not we will agree with the annual report or the part on the activities of the Czech Television Council. So let's approve, and these concerns will be gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u197	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Juchelka is also on application and Mr Babka will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u198	Thank you very much, too. Well, that's a great assurance from the President of the Jan Jakob Club, through you. Well, in that case, if you don't have that intention here, I will, of course, propose here tomorrow as a starting point, and it really takes two minutes to approve the Czech Television Activity Report in 2021 and then in 2022. And we'll see if you don't have these intentions here, of course, if you don't mind if we approve them, or if we don't approve them. I think that's the two minutes we can spend here. And, of course, we're going to see what these actions are, that is, by voting, the intentions of this government coalition here. So tomorrow I will be the first points before the Lex Ukraine to propose the approval of activity reports, sorry, on Friday the approval of the Czech Television activity reports and we can finally get this over with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u199	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Babka is also on application. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u200	Thank you for the floor. I was a little slower to click than a colleague named Juchelka. However, I thank President Jakoba, through you, Madam Vice-President, for reassuring us here, and this is one of the two assurances that we want to reach today, that it is therefore not your aim to withdraw the entire Council after the approval of the two annual reports. It sounded here on the microphone on 22 February at 13 am 19 minutes. I'm glad for that. I'm gonna remember this date because it's my birthday, so it's gonna be easy. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Thank you. Thank you. So I'll remember. And if you have such desires, I will, of course, draw your attention to it very hard and refer to your very words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u201	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Jakob is also on the list. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u202	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague Babek, through the Vice-President, on his birthday today. And I hope for the last time, but this is the pinnacle of demagogy, piece by piece of what my colleague Juchelka is doing here. Firstly, the paragraph that we want to abolish so that this cannot happen will not be withdrawn by the fact that two reports will not be approved in a row. That only gives the House the opportunity to withdraw as a whole. And just so that these concerns do not arise, it is better to have a new text without the paragraph so that this concern about the possibility of appeal of the board as a whole is not. And then, with a calm heart, we can all evaluate our comments on the annual report on the part of the Czech Television Council, and accordingly without the threat that would follow, the appeal, to comment on it and to decide. So please don't move it, let's not twist it like this and let's approve. That's not an option. Apparently, everyone welcomes it. And once again, it is not the goal of the coalition to invoke the council as a whole, in full consciousness this is what I'm saying to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u203	Thank you for keeping time. Your performance brought up a series of factual remarks. First Minister Baxa, he's downloading. Then Mr. Babka is signed in. [[She is speaking to Mr Juchelka and is not responding.]] Mr. Ambassador, factual point, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u204	Sorry. I'm used to going after my colleague Juchelek today, so I was confused for a while. Thank you. One more reaction to Jakob's colleague. We don't understand how this goes. Because, unfortunately, today we will probably not be able to approve this law, so to dispel the possibility of appeal of the board as a whole, we have those points placed at a proper meeting, which is 53rd, which will continue tomorrow or Friday. And therefore, my colleague Juchelka merely suggested that we assign these two annual reports to the programme, approve them, and therefore the possibility of recalling the board as a whole will simply fall away under the current wording of the law and we will be able to address the amendment to the Czech Television Act again in the coming days, as you propose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u205	Thank you for keeping time. President Schillerová is also signed in. Madam Speaker, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u206	Mr. Chairman Jakob, through the Vice-President, you must burn the pond to Mr. Juchelek! Don't convince us here. Just line it up on Friday! I promise you, it'll be a minute. We'll approve and move on. We could've saved that for about half an hour. Just burn him a pond! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u207	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u208	Mr Jakob, please burn my pond, through Madam President, and let us be the first two points on Friday to have the Czech Television Report 2021, then 2022, let us vote it out. And we will continue with the Lex Ukraine V and then the Czech Television Act, a small novel. I don't think it's anything. We've heard from your mouth twice here on the microphone assurance that you don't have any such appetites. I'm so happy for you. But really, because the councilmen were elected by a democratically secret choice, some thanks, of course, to the government coalition and the public election, those are your coalition councillors, of course, that's for sure, because we left, Minister. And let's do it that Friday morning. I'd love to. Burn my pond!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u209	Thank you for keeping time. The next application is Mrs Peštová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u210	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm gonna stop you here with the pond burning. And now I'm gonna burn it down for you. In any case, I am making a procedural proposal that this press be interrupted by 1. 9. 2023, and I request his vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u211	Thank you. Please counter-proposal. But please observe the Rules of Procedure - counterproposal and briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u212	Thank you. There's gonna be a counterproposal from me. I don't know if my colleague Jakob is going to be giving up any counterproposals, either. [[Noise from the left.]] But since we've been doing this so nicely for so long, and we've already taken it from all sides today, and a certain part of my business has already been brought up -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u213	Ambassador, please state the counterproposal so we can vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u214	My counterproposal is to interrupt this meeting for five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u215	Thank you. I'm opening the vote on the counter-proposal and I'm asking who's in favour? [[There's a knock in the bench - checkout request.]] I've already started the vote. Who's against it? I'll check you out at the next one. [[The noise in the hall.]] Voting number 6, 152 Members signed in for 16, versus 65. The motion was denied. I feel interested in checking out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking you to log in with your I.D. cards. [[Noise in the hall.]] Initiating vote on Mrs Peštová's proposal... [[Dissenting noise in the hall that Mr Carbol is reporting.]] Oh, sorry, sorry. I didn't. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I object to the management of the meeting. You can't treat us that way. [[Big laugh and banging on the benches on the left.]] I don't know what you're laughing at. I've been sitting here honestly, unlike some of you who came from behind the scenes. So I sat here honestly, I heard a knock from a colleague who wanted to check out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u217	I'll comment on that. Quiet in the Chamber, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u218	Madam President deliberately launched the vote without taking us out. I repeat, I object to the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u219	Thank you. Of course you have the right, Mr. Ambassador. Just so we're clear, I've gotten started, I've had the counterproposal said, I've started the vote, and I've only heard knocking during the vote that I didn't stop, and I've signed you off before the next vote. Mr. Chairman Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u220	Madam Vice-President, I don't want to make a complete war out of this, but I just want us to really act right. Yesterday it was from the chair's table, I don't know who was running it at the time, I think colleague Skopeček, who said, "Please say your application for withdrawal on time, before, because then I have to suspend the vote, declare it confusing and cancel you." - If this meeting is to be managed uniformly, regardless of who's behind the opposition or the coalition, then let's be united about it, and when the application for a check-out is, let's not pretend that it wasn't. This vote has always been misguided and checked out, as has always been the custom here. I really don't think this is right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u221	Thank you. Madam President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u222	So I also remember when Vice-President Skopeček - and here I commend him - headed the meeting and responded to President Cogan's comments: well, you knocked little, Mr President. That's what he told him here. I was sitting here, unlike you. It was empty. I was sitting here. It was exactly as the Vice-President described it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u223	Thank you. However, there has been an objection to the President's procedure, which I will put to the vote. So I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 160 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 82, against 75. The motion was accepted. And then I'm handing over the meeting for the President's trial. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u224	I'm gonna ask you to calm the situation down. This is the Prime Minister with priority rights, but before she performs, I'm asking for peace of mind. We should therefore, because she has gone over the objection, vote again on the vote that has taken place here and against which the objection has been raised. [[Mrs Schiller suggests that she would give up her appearance in view of this.]] Yes, but if you don't want to get on with it. You've got your word, so you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u225	I got the floor, Madam President, so I'm gonna use it. I don't think what happened here was fair. It wasn't fair. It wasn't fair to Vice-President Klára Dostálová, because she described it exactly as she did. Don't be mad at me, the situation here is heated. You're not here, then you come running in here, you say otherwise. So sit here. You called an emergency meeting and you're not sitting here in the hall? [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] What's that? What's that? This is your special meeting, this is not our special meeting! Excuse me, I'm taking a break in 14 hours at the Yes Club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u226	So since the President has decided to take a break, I have no choice but to grant this break and vote... [[A note from Mrs Schiller off the microphone.]] You said within 14 hours when the point is firmly placed, but if you want to change the time here, because we have to interrupt this meeting and it would be correct, as we agreed from the Gremia, so that it would be done seven minutes before the fixed point is fixed, so it would be possible to correct it. So if you don't mind me adjusting the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u227	Okay. So since there's a fixed point on which we agreed on a grémium, I'm on my own, and I'm taking that break to 13.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u228	Thank you. I am now declaring a break at the ANO club meeting until 13.50.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-001-001.u229	It is 13.50, so the time has expired, which he used for his break for the ANO meeting, and therefore we continue the meeting. Now that the objection has been accepted, we should vote on the original proposal, or a proposal which we have already voted on, but which has not just been voted on, from Mr Lacina to interrupt this meeting for five minutes. But those have passed, so I want to ask if he insists on the proposal. The Member does not insist on the proposal, which is why we would have gotten to the original proposal by Mrs Peštová, who proposed a procedural suspension of this meeting by 1 September 2023. So we are voting on this procedural proposal. I am opening the vote on the suspension of the meeting until 1 September, as proposed by the honourable Member. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 8 registered 160 present, for 60, against 85. The motion was denied. Given the closeness of the 14th hour at which we have a fixed point from the 53rd meeting, and the Grémium agreed, as you were informed at the beginning of this meeting, that if the agenda is not exhausted, the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be interrupted by Friday, 24 February, about seven minutes after the suspension of the 53rd meeting, I interrupt under this agreement, if no one objects, I interrupt the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday, 24 February, seven minutes after the suspension of the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, I ask for a resetting to the 53rd meeting, which we will begin after a while, and we will begin with fixed voting points at 14 o'clock. Thank you.
