ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 70th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. To record our involvement, I'll check you out first. I've checked you all out now, and I'm going to ask you to reclaim your registration cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I also say that the following Members asked to excuse their absence from today's meeting: Jaroslav Bašta apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Jiří Carbol for the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Lenka Dražilová for the Olšáková day of the hearing for work reasons, Petr Gazdík up to 11 hours for health reasons, Šimon Heller from 14 hours for working reasons, David Kasal from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Zdeněk Kettner from 11 hours for family reasons, Jiří Kobza from 13 hours for working reasons, Roman Kubíček from 17 hours for working reasons, Pastuchová Kuchař from the whole working day for working reasons, Jan Lacina from the whole Eliška of the hearing for health reasons, Petr Liška from the whole day of the hearing for Pošarová reasons, Zdeněk Němečková Crkvenjaš from the Potůčková Lucie of the hearing for Marie of the foreign trip. Furthermore, Pavel Růžička apologizes from 9.45 a.m. to 11.15 p.m. for health reasons, Jiří Slavík from 12.15 p.m. for personal reasons, Bohuslav Svoboda from the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Julius Špičák from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Karel Tureček from the whole day for health reasons, Helena Válková within 10 hours for working reasons. Mikuláš Bek apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day for working reasons, Martin Dvořák from 10.45 hours for working reasons, Petr Hladík from the whole day for working reasons, Helena Langšádlová from 9 to 10.30 hours for working reasons, Zdeněk Nekula from the whole day for working reasons, Jozef Síkela from the whole day for working reasons and Michal Šalomoun from 12 hours for working reasons. In the meantime, Mr Jan Síla's apologies for the whole day for health reasons and David Šimek from 14.30 pm for work reasons have passed. Jan Lipavský also apologizes from the ministers for working reasons throughout the day. Well, that would be an apology so far. And now, colleagues, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. There's really a lot of noise. Thank you. Today's negotiations should be initiated by firmly ranked points from the block by the laws of third reading. The order is now listed: first point 100, printing 366, on road traffic, then points 103, 101, 102, 106. We would then continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda. At 15 o'clock we would then focus on paragraph 98, which we interrupted yesterday until this time. And now there's room for applications to change the agenda. I have Mr. Cogan's application here - he's stahovat. And then I have here for YES with the priority right of President Babiš to change the 70th session. Please, Mr. Chairman, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. I attended the Committee on European Affairs this morning, where the Prime Minister defended his mandate. I got out there and asked him for two things. First, to ask the European Commission at the European Council tomorrow and Friday to pay us all the costs that we have with solidarity and that we have adopted more than 500,000 Ukrainian refugees here, to specifically ask the European Commission to give us EUR 1.7 billion, that is, CZK 40 billion. Why? In short, since 2015, the European Commission has given or donated or allocated EUR 3.4 billion to Greece, EUR 1.1 billion to Italy and EUR 820 million to Germany and so on. Secondly, I asked the Prime Minister to change the position of the Czech Republic in terms of this migration pact. But I've come to the conclusion that it's futile. The Prime Minister has actually confirmed to me that after this government has been here for over a year and a half, it does not understand the European issue at all, it does not understand what has happened, what is going on. And of course, he repeated the untruths about migration. Yesterday, Minister Černochová - she is not here today - spoke: facts, facts. Well, I don't know how to document the Prime Minister lying all the time. He's lying all the time! I showed it here yesterday. [[It shows the background.]] Here's the headline of the N Diary - anti-Babish-based businessmen who hate Babiš. And here's the headline: if we don't accept refugees, we can't return them, says Babiš. That makes sense. Even the kids who came here will understand. Solidarity cannot be mandatory. The essence of the new proposal for a European Union migration policy is pointless. Yes, pointless! The rámcový position - this is still what the Prime Minister repeats that the position of this government, this terrible government, is supposed to be the same. Well, she's not the same! I don't know anymore. Here is the framework position of Hamáček, where it is clearly said that the Czech Republic considers the proposal problematic and contradictory with the long-term position of the Czech Republic. [[shows]] And the Prime Minister is repeating the lies. This is unbelievable. I know it's the government of lies, that it's a policy of lies and that they lied about us being bankrupt and about inflation and Green Deal. And now they're lying about migration, about supposedly doing what we did. That's a lie! [[9.10 hours]] I understand they have an agency there... It's the same agency that helped tweak the OKD and which is advising the Prime Minister today and writing the nonsense. But it's incredible, and the Prime Minister has a fantastic gift that he's totally flushed. Normally, he keeps repeating the lies. The Prime Minister didn't want to go to the European Council, he avoided it. That's not an environment of solidarity and friendship, that's just bullshit on the press conference. That's where they fight for interests. And the Prime Minister does not fight for the interests of the Czech Republic because Morawiecki and Polák clearly said so. The migration pact, the fraud, is a loss of sovereignty! And the Polák says: No one will talk to us about who lives in Poland!. And the Prime Minister now from 1. 7. 2023 will have a Presidency of the Four. Said nothing had been done in the past. Well, Prime Minister, it did. Erdogan, with whom I have friendly relations, and I am not ashamed of it, and I have also fought for something for the Czech Republic, has received EUR 3 billion for holding millions of migrants. Egypt - it's settled, too. And we still can't get along with the Prime Minister, because he's still talking about return policy, asylum procedures. What return policy? So go to Frontex, if you've invited the migrants here, and then someone will put them on a plane and they're supposed to go somewhere, so the country where they're going has to accept them. And that's a big problem. So it's nonsense! So how are we different? Well, we're different because those ships can't sail. They're not. So please learn how Australia did it. Australia had a similar problem. And the moment they returned the first ship with those illegal migrants... And again, it's a criminal act! Morawiecki clearly said at a press conference in Bratislava, it is not possible to support organizations engaged in human smuggling. Nonprofits smuggle people! They come with that ship at the border of Libya, in the sea, and there waits for those smugglers to pay thousands of euros to come to Europe, where, according to the last situation, there is no place for them in Germany and Sweden - those were the countries that had been invited. Now they regret it. Let me tell you something else here. So what does this Morawiecki guy say? Nor can terrorist organisations be supported. Some NGOs have been labeled that way. So what solution, Prime Minister? Well, I'll tell you. Suggest to the European Council that you send a large ship to Lampedusa, load the 1500, or how many thousands of migrants are there, and take them home. And that's where we'll take care of them. That's the only solution. That'll be the signal! You're the signaler, you're still sending signals, so give me the signal. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Give the signal so people know there's no place for them in Europe. And whoever wants them can invite them. And let them come, but they'll know exactly where they're going. For work! For work. So you didn't get it at all. I remember Germany's problem with those who didn't receive asylum to get them out of Germany. Because they just come from countries without the consent of those countries. And then why would that country actually take them back? Doesn't that make sense? Well, it's not logical. Well, of course, what's it about? And the Prime Minister spoke today that they would talk to Tunisia. Yes, we've been through all this, we've split it up. Sanchez and I were in charge of Morocco, Angela was supposed to have Algiers and Tunis. What about Tunis? Well, Tunis will want money. Just like Erdogan wanted. Egypt worked. Libya? France must agree with Italy. So the Prime Minister doesn't understand what's going on, he's talking about asylum proceedings. What asylum procedure? If they don't come here, there's no asylum. What comeback? If they don't come, there's no coming back. Let's take care of these people where they lived in Syria. Solve the Syria at last! It's a beautiful country. Marshallův's plan to get everyone home. It was a fantastic country. So the Prime Minister is out of his mind. That was like incredible, and there was no point in arguing with him on that committee. I didn't mean to put it there. So we know all this. And normally you're just manipulating the fact that we have a common position. We don't have a common position. You don't have the same position as the Polák. You don't, okay? And it's a criminal matter. Criminal business. And what's the worst? Dear colleagues - and honourable citizens mostly. Do you know what's going on in Germany? Normally, the Němec, and there are so many articles about it, are afraid to speak publicly today. They're scared normally. After the pubs, they're afraid to give their opinion, because this policy that will destroy Europe is ideology. This is an ideology that is supposed to change Europe, where the original inhabitants will no longer have room for their own way of life. So you think our pro-government media will keep you informed? Here's my article. Focus, this is a serious weekly: "Sexual Delicte, Morde, Raub, die Warheit über Kriminalzuwander." Yes. Sexual violence, murder, robbery, robbery. Here's the statistics on who's doing all this. Now, you've finally realized what's going on in Sweden. Magdalena sat next to me, proud of how many migrants they took. Well, today the police can't go to some zones in Stockholm or Malmö, they're scared. There's these gangs, crime. Crime. Well. Now I'm gonna read you what's going on in Germany. Because what happens here? I said it here yesterday. Germany's full! He's busy. And they don't want to take anymore. And here's the article: Germans are terrified by clowns' war... clowns, not clowns. [[It's fixed with laughter.]] Clans, sorry. [[Fun in the hall.]] They're dealing with Middle East gang accounts in the Ruhrs. geng or gangs? Gengy, come on, fine. German politicians have discovered - imagine! - that their voters are no longer feeling safe in the streets. Hello! Why does AfD have 20 percent? Why? Well, because they've arrived at the illegal migration. Wir schaffen das, isn't it Angela? You didn't cheat. The Germans have a problem. There's a war on immigration clans in the Ruhr. In Berlin's swimming pools, brutal fights broke down with dozens of immigrant children. All this isn't just common street crime. Attackers have long knives and baseball bats, wooden lattes with nails and hand grenades. The Federal Minister of Justice, Marco Buschmann, from the Liberal Party of the FDP, therefore calls for a tougher procedure. In an interview for Bild am Sonntag, he said that the rule of law should show that he no longer intended to ignore the problem as before. He should start by uncompromising criminal gangs with their status symbols, luxury cars or expensive jewelry. Well, that's interesting. Buschmann wants more cops on the streets and more consistent expulsion of troubled migrants. That's not working out yet. Similarly, the Federal Minister of the Interior - please - expressed herself as Social Democrat Nancy Faeserová. But opposition Christian parties refused to support the Berlin government. Die Welt quoted from their statement that government politicians are simply trying to release a smokescreen to cover their own inability to combat illegal migration and organised crime. [[9.20 hours]] Yes, illegal migration brings organized crime. And don't let anyone say that-- sometimes, yes, there's gonna be some kind of murder in our house. Yes, it will, unfortunately. But this migration brings more crime. It's documented, there's statistics. The anti-system side of the Alternative for Democracy, AfD, whose head of the Bernd Baumann MP, has also contributed to the debate that mafia immigration gangs already have about a quarter of a million family members, almost as many as police officers are available. AfD sees the problem as an over-open immigration policy that has enabled uncontrollable families to merge. According to Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, the main issue is now openly to name the problem, to look at what actually happened. So it all began near the roughly 75,000 city of Castrop-Rauxel as a fight between two 11-year-old boys. But the adults gradually joined. The result was a bloody fight on German streets, with members of traditional Kurdish families from Lebanon on the one hand, who fled to Germany in the 1980s before the civil war in Beirut, and on the other hand, the barricades being their new competitors, the Syrian arab, who also welcomed the opportunity to engage in drug trafficking and other illegal activities. Both groups feel animosity from their homes. In Germany, everything is gratified. The number of hate attacks in Germany has doubled since the beginning of the year. When the enthusiastic cohort of Lebanon's Kurd attacked two bars in Essen, which is considered the bastion of Syrian immigrants, there was only an unimaginable trigger and a serious Arab stabbed. Hundreds of police officers were difficult to handle, many received a dose of pepper spray in their faces. There are cries in the videos of the conflict about family honor to justify violence, or a message from a rapper that whoever enters our world is our enemy. He made it so spectacularly clear that some parts of Essen no longer belonged to the Němec. Certain groups certainly reject our system of values - well, good morning! - Mr Essen MP commented on the FDP Ralf Fitzel. In the long run, the Germans were just cautious about the fact that certain factors in the group of Middle East immigrants were combined (?) which evolved into a seriously criminal structure, as was also said in the German media. The archaic family tradition and distrust of the German state were so deep. A cult of gangster fame grew among young immigrants. The authorities now have no choice but to call things by their proper names, to adopt an assertive approach in order to gain the necessary respect. Well, constant controls, raids, extensive operations, and confiscation of property. Maybe that's the only thing that's gonna make immigrant gangs respect the state. So please, what's going on in Germany? Germany is full. It's the same in Sweden. And our Prime Minister here is talking about some asylum, some return policy? I repeat, and we pushed for it like this. And today, on the EU committee, I asked the Prime Minister to find out where the EUR 32 million that V4 sent to the Italian fund ended. I wonder where it ended up, if someone stole it. Thirty-two million euros. We should have bought four ships for the Libyan guard to fight those gangsters, the smugglers. It's organized crime, it's not like they're fleeing the war. These are all young, armed, illegal migrants, organized, they have money, they have phones, they have guns and they go to Europe. Is that what we want? The fact that in Karlovy Vary on New Year's Eve the migrant who received asylum in Germany stabbed and attacked our two women was 22 years old. Praise God. Yeah, that was cool. But I'm telling you, Prime Minister, all those people who drown in the Mediterranean, and if it ever happens again that a migrant like this will attack our people, we'll scream and I'll be the first. And you will be responsible, even your Rakušan. You can change that. You can change that because this is an absolute disaster for Europe. It's about security. And Europe is supposed to help these people outside the European continent. Outside the European continent. Yes, the Prime Minister said today that Schengen needs to be expanded. Yeah, well, do it. You had the Presidency, didn't you? What then? What did you do? The Prime Minister still says we didn't do it. Well, we did. We have not allowed the legislation of this migration pact. They didn't. We didn't allow legislation. Yes? And of course you invited them. It's an invitation. Why? Why are so many people coming now? So if you don't send that signal and you don't return those ships and stop those people from coming back, so that there's a clear signal: Europe - it's closed, stay in Tunis or wherever you want, take it out in Libya, Tunisia. Make Ellis Island there - that's the island where our ancestors went to America, but after the interview, after it became clear that they would be working there, after being subjected to a medical examination. So after that, they went. There's no way anyone goes to Europe for nothing. And not just because the smugglers are organizing it. So, Prime Minister, unfortunately, you're completely disoriented about this. And you were talking today about Poland having a position before the election. Yes, Morawiecki said he wanted a referendum on it. I agree. Okamura here talked about the referendum for a long time yesterday. Let's make a referendum, I don't have a problem with that, why not? But I think it's clear here. And we have always argued that the Čech, or citizens of the Czech Republic, should decide by choosing a government that simply does not allow smugglers and criminals to organize here who will live with us. Well, of course, Mr. Rakušan is making it easy that it doesn't concern us. We didn't see the exception. He's been saying for a long time that he had a mandate, then he said it was the same mandate, and so on. All lies. I read the mandate. Yes, you're manipulating it, because you're only taking from that mandate the fact that we want protection at the external borders. Please, I've been doing this for a really long time from 2015 until 2021, and I've always rejected that position. So Europe is full. Yesterday I was talking about fences being built everywhere. That's incredible. 1,800 kilometers of fence is built. The Greek Prime Minister won the election, told the people - I'll build a fence 200 kilometers, elected him. Polák builds, Slovinec builds, Maďar of course built, everyone builds fences and at the same time say, here is the quota of 30,000. She's the quota. It's a quota. They say at least 30,000. So last year, there was 846,000, and if there was a million, they probably don't care. I don't think they care. So it's totally unacceptable. And I ask you again, Prime Minister, and again, I suggest you change that position. The Chovanec did the same thing on the Council. He accepted the quota. And then we reversed it and stopped it at the prime minister's level. This Regulation shall enter into force Well, that lunatic Timmermans didn't give up and come up with this! And you're saying we didn't want it. It's on paper! Here are the positions. So stop lying, okay, and change that. Change it and join the Polish position. Morawiecki criticized at the press conference in Bratislava that he didn't get anything. He didn't get any help. He got 100 euros for a migrant. I already talked about it here last night. If we tell Europe now, take the 500,000 Ukrajinec, and they say no, we say no, give us 238 billion! And Stanjura has a balanced budget! [[9.30 hours]] It's stupid, of course. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] But that's the principle. We didn't get anything for Ukrainians. We were solidarity, and we volunteered solidarity. Of course, the European Commission is doing what it wants, but we have a prime minister there, and he had the Presidency to push for it. So ask for 40 billion for the Czech Republic, which you have published on Ukrainian refugees! And they're probably real fugitives because they were fleeing the war. So that's where you're supposed to fight for our interests, and the Prime Minister is lost in it. I really am amazed at how he can talk about return policy. What return policy? So go ask about the Frontex. Those people who don't get asylum - and I say they shouldn't come at all - need to get on a plane. But somebody has to put the slot on (?). Some country has to say, I'll take them. And that doesn't work. Someone has to negotiate. I was talking here, I was talking in Budapest that we have so many politicians, but no leaders. How many leaders do we have now in Europe who go out and have some respect for foreign policy? There aren't many. So in terms of security, the migration pact is an absolute disaster. It's a threat to our security. And, of course, because we took the Ukrajinec and got nothing. No one's officially coming to our house. But they're coming unofficially. They're coming. They're walking. So far, he's going to Germany, but Germany's full. And what happens after it's completely full? Well, of course they'll stay with us, that's perfectly logical, isn't it? Or doesn't anyone realize that? No one can see what's going on? So on the one hand, Europe is building fences, on the other hand, those lunatics who want to destroy Europe - and it is ideology - this has nothing to do with solidarity. He doesn't. If Europe were capable, it would simply organise it outside the European Union. I've talked about it repeatedly. So the Prime Minister's still talking about what they're like, amazing, great, and what they've done there. Well, you've achieved absolutely nothing, Prime Minister. Presidency - total disaster. EURO 7 - you lied about not stopping the production of cars with an internal combustion engine. I was talking about it yesterday, about the gigafactory. About you being nervous about Volkswagen saying that Skoda Auto will only do engines, internal combustion engines, and that the gigafactory goes to America. You should be nervous about that. So you didn't enforce anything there. People are gonna pay for house bills, cars, EURO 7. And now for the migration. And that's the biggest horror movie ever! The fact that Europe's Green Deal is destroying industry, that they'll be unemployed here, that even industry might not be here, because they're all going to America where there's cheap energy, yes, that's the result of what's happening right now. And I say it's ideology. And who represents the ideology here? The pirát! Pirates. Pirates run this government. The ODS lets them run the pirát. Well, I put out this poster last night. [[He's pointing.]] I'd say I'm a psychic. Look at that. [[Laugh left.]] What are you laughing at? It says here: lower pensions. Lower pensions. A psychic. [[To Minister Síkel:]] Here comes the new commissioner. [[Fun on the left.]] Lower pensions, that's what I said in October 2021 before the elections. Sure. Cancel the cars, that's it, isn't it? Euro 7, emissions to cars. Fabie's gonna be so expensive, no one's gonna buy it anymore. Raise taxes! Imagine punishing a successful one! Whoever gets the big profit, we'll tax him. That's how it came true. Tax the start-ups. Come on, businessmen... And refugees, welcome! Have you forgotten about Bartoš, how he's doing in the Antifa 2016 parade - refugees, welcome? That's it! I started the anti-corruption movement. But this philosophy, this ideology represented by the pirát, who were raised by nonprofits abroad to destroy Europe to destroy our way of life, that's the biggest threat. So this is -- and this is written here -- I really don't want this! I don't want to. Refugees, welcome. All of this. Now we're in June 2023, this came out October 2021. So we can watch the videos, emission allowances - the minister is leaving. [[Of a thickness ……]] You could finally privatize the ČEZ so we can have the electricity for CZK 1,500 per megawatt, as the Slovák have it. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] So what we said came true. Of course, they lied from the start, and not fulfilling the program, that's for sure. She and the position are against the SPOLU program, the Pirstan program. Completely contrary. So again, I suggest that the Prime Minister change his position to join Poland. And the only solution is to beat those smugglers who charge EUR 6 billion a year for smuggling everything - oil, oil, cigarettes, and people. And people. It's organized crime. And the only solution is to send them home and take care of them there. We'll take care of it. The Prime Minister spoke on the committee today, Africa and so on. Come on, act. Make it happen. And if anyone wants those migrants to work, they can invite them, but they can walk around the front, I have a contract, I'll work somewhere. And then let them come, I don't have a problem with it. We have Ukrajinec here. I think Ukrajinec are important to us in terms of work. But, of course, that's also a problem for someone to check if all the Ukrajinec who are with us want to work. To work. That's a problem, too. That's what you should be doing, too. So they don't just come in here and get their benefits and get their health services for free. Yes, let them work, let their kids go to school, and so there's no problem with that, and we'll see how it all turns out when it changes from 1. 7. So once again, the only solution to migration is that the ships won't sail. So, Prime Minister, design a big boat on Lampedusa, have these people come home, give them some money to come home. They paid the smugglers. It's unacceptable. And it is a huge danger to Europe. Huge. And we'll be watching, Prime Minister, how you treat it. I wish you luck so something doesn't happen to us. Because if Germany is full, of course they'll come and come to us. And I don't want gangs here. I don't want to! This crime is a big problem. For you, by the way, the crime goes up, it goes down for us. So everything's wrong. You have done nothing for the Czech Republic in Europe. You have no idea what a sovereign state is. You don't understand what Czech interests are. You don't understand that everyone in Europe is fighting for their interests. Everyone. Nobody's gonna give us anything for free. So I expect you to win at least 40 billion for the budget, change your position, and say Mr. Rakušan just got it wrong! Because he set it up wrong. Thank you for that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u3	I still need to make sure that the exact name of the point you propose is that it is a change in the Czech Republic's position on the migration pact, as it was yesterday. [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you. This act of priority has called for further applications with priority rights. I will only allow the apologies received, to be clear who is sorry: Mr Martin Hájek apologizes from 14:00 for work reasons, Jan Kubík to 9:30 for work reasons, Karla Maříková from 12:45 to 15:00 for work reasons, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 15:00 for family reasons and Monika Oborná from 14:00 for personal reasons. That would be an apology in the meantime. And now with priority rights, Minister Martin Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u4	That's a sad story. Sad story about Andrej Babiš. He abandoned any responsibility to the state, decided for rhetoric, which is based only on the tone of hatred, the awakening of darkest passions and hauntings. There's no way we're talking about the amount of lies we've heard here. If I had just mentioned the Euro 7 it was the Czech Republic and this government, which forms a barrier against pointless, unrealistic proposals. But what means a real, real fight against the risks we are aware of is a consistent attitude towards the laws that apply in the Czech Republic, and this government guarantees in full. Fighting smugglers is a consistent fight against smuggling and illegal migration. And that is exactly what happened last year when, for example, more illegal migrants crossed the Slovak-Czech border. But, through Madam President, do not arouse these passions in society! It is an extremely dangerous game, which does not at all correspond to the elementary responsibility of the opposition to report to the tradition of democratic opposition parties. You left this a long time ago. When I was looking at the beginning of your speech and there were students and students sitting up there, I'm really worried about the painting they're taking from the Chamber of Deputies. And I dare to challenge you: respect the basic rules of democratic warfare. By invoking the darkest passions, by spooking purposeful quotes from the foreign press, no one has signed up well for politics. And if YES by your mouth has decided to leave the elementary plane of decent politics and is really more like a brownish movement than a reasonable democracy, then...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u5	Calm down, please! Please, the President had the opportunity to speak calmly before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u6	Thank you for giving the truth to the analysis of what we heard here a little while ago. I believe that if you read it from the record or from the log, you will know that Andrej Babiš here is far beyond the limits of an elementary, decent opposition policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u7	And now Prime Minister Babiš is reporting from the priority area, and I appeal very much... [[Mrs Mračková Vildumetz calls from the diaper: What point did the Minister propose?]] Yes, it is a performance with priority rights, so let me point out that a new point has not been proposed, but I think we all understand that it is now an expression. [[Members are calling from the benches.]] Please, the President has the opportunity to speak now. I strongly ask the sněmovna, let us maintain a dignified space for expression, let everyone respond, as was the case before. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u8	Minister, you are a lucky man, because you are in charge of the resort that we handed over to you in a state that you have 300 kilometers of highways and bypasses ready. And when we took over the resort, in 2014, it was 800 meters. So I wish you luck to carry out all our projects. By the way, the Karlovy Vary highway, the two sections, because she's over three counties in the Karlovy Vary Region, so nothing's happening yet. And I've been pushing them to get the freeway done by 2026, now it's 2027. So it would be a good idea if you took care of it. So you're a lucky person in that I, when I went into politics, always said we wanted to show something. You've got 10 billion train stations there. You will open them everywhere - this is our work, especially the railway station in Teplice would be good, and will be the main railway station and all this. So you got a resort where you basically don't have much, and you need Stanjura to give you the money. I don't know why you're borrowing 30 billion on SFDI when Minister Bek says he's gonna borrow 45 billion and then they're gonna take it away from him. Well, I don't understand. Well, it would be good if you could do a PPP project. Prague-Tábor. It's such a good route. We've done a single PPP project, Havlíček, since the revolution, everyone's been talking about it, so it's being realized on Strakonicka, so that would be nice for you to do this. And, of course, you talk great. You were a spokesperson, weren't you? You're a great spokesperson who worked his way up to the minister. So I say, hat off. And you talk nice, I can't talk like you, I envy you. But I don't know what you're talking about. I only quoted from the foreign press. Or are you questioning Focus or this? And those talks that the Němec are afraid to tell the truth out loud today, that the Němec are afraid to say that Angela screwed up with the "schaffen das!"that the gangs are there, that people are afraid to go out. [[wir]] So what's the big deal? What'd we turn brown? How did we turn brown? We're not brown at all. So it's not true. The YES movement clearly states that we are a sovereign state, that no one should speak to us about who will live with us, and that we have simply shown that we are solidarity. We supported your government on Ukrainian refugees, but we will never support illegal migration. And the Prime Minister didn't understand what was going on in Europe. He didn't understand at all that it's a hard deal, that everyone there is fighting for their interests. And I'm glad that today the Prime Minister has confirmed that unlike the pirát and the STAN - you have that useless minister sitting on the corner - that you will not allow unanimity to change. That this is where the Prime Minister can enforce the interests of the Czech Republic and should now ask for 40 billion. If the Řek got EUR 3.4 billion, why don't we get the money? I mean, she's... The four of us are supposed to join together, and they're supposed to fight for it. And do you know how to do that? Those deals over there? Well, if you're gonna block something in that position, you're gonna say, "We, V4, we want so much money." So if they got the others, why can't we get them? So I didn't understand your performance. We're consistent about this, and people are just going to evaluate what you said before the election, what you're saying right now. And I repeat, you guys have just cheated that you're not doing your program, because if you read it, what it says... And our billboard in October 2021. I actually have a... [[He's showing the material.]] You've never evaluated the government's programming statement from the start. We don't even know what your government wants. You had some promises before the election, you made five coalitions after the election, of course you won with anti-Babish, you don't have another program, so then you made the government's programming statement, you didn't fulfill it, now you've changed it, you've never evaluated it, no. So I, if I evaluate the billboard, cut the pensions - you've done it. Cars cancel - you've done it, too. Starts to tax - fulfilled - you have proposed the law. Raise taxes - you've done it, too. Punishing successful mortgage repayment by penalizing - also fulfilled. And the best thing you've laughed at us - refugees, welcome, Bartoš, Antifa - Bartoš was in Antifa - Pirates are here to destroy Europe, these are the activists of the promigrants who run you! Why do you let those Pirates drive you? [[In an elevated voice.]] Four MPs run the entire government, blackmail you, you're afraid of them? I don't get it. So now you're doing it, too. Runaways, welcome - that's the program! I don't know what you're talking about. We keep our promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u9	I'm just saying, for the record, that even now, there has been no proposal on the agenda to make it clear. Minister Kupka reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u10	I listened carefully again and to make a proposal, so I would like to propose a point of spreading hatred, proven nonsense, lies from the mouth of Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u11	Thank you. And since I don't have anyone else logged in with this, I'm gonna do it. Mrs. Schillerová is still reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm not going to question the fact that you admitted priority rights without a point, because we've already made that clear here, and we've decided that there's a degree of tolerance for priority rights, so of course you've made it possible for both sides, that's okay. Minister Kupka has proposed a point to specify on which day and at which hour he will be placed. I believe he's gonna put it in today, and let's have some fun, we're not afraid of it! [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] If we were the movement you call us, we would not be prepared to support the majority of the Czech-American defence treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u13	I'm just saying, it's the right of the plaintiffs to propose when to enlist. President Babiš has not been proposed before either. [[Mr Vondráček reporting.]] Please, you have no right of priority, I cannot allow you. You don't have priority rights, please. [[Mr Vondráček speaks off the microphone.]] If you want to object, of course you can make that statement, I was just making sure because you have no priority right. If you want an objection, you can. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u14	I object because, of course, priority rights must always be allowed. But other than that, it applies to everyone, because it's a continuation of the meeting, everyone should be logged in half an hour after the beginning of the meeting. And the minister changed his mind at 9.50, so... And you didn't sign up before 9:30, so we shouldn't vote on that. It simply applies to everyone, even to priority rights, but, of course, priority rights can come out. I am concerned with following the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u15	Thank you. This is, of course, a procedural proposal that needs to be voted immediately. So I'm gonna do the deed, call in my coworkers and co-workers from the lobby to get in here. I'm just saying, he signed up in the meantime... I therefore specify in the meantime that Mr Vondráček has objected to the proceedings of the meeting, which, of course, is something that is being put to the vote immediately. And now Members and Members are approaching the hall and we will decide by vote. Quiet in the hall, please. An objection has been put forward, concerning the submission of a motion for a point by Minister Kupka. One more time. Colleagues, colleagues have reached the hall. An objection has been submitted. Yes, I'll check everyone out. Please log in with your ID cards again, you've all been logged out. And I'm going to repeat what we're going to vote on. Mr Vondráček submitted an objection to the proceedings of the meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this objection? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this objection? It was the number 43 vote, 159 Members and Members signed up, for 72, against 86. Objection has been denied. We have therefore dealt with this procedural proposal. We can now proceed to proposals to amend the agenda as presented. And I will remind you that President Andrej Babiš made the first motion to change the agenda of the meeting entitled Change the position of the Czech Republic on the migration pact. That's how I made sure it was. I'm gonna reload an apology because that should be recorded. Mr Pavel Klíma apologizes at 15 o'clock for work reasons. And now we can proceed to the vote on the proposal for a new item. Problem with the vote? A spare card? Okay. We will just leave the Member to express his opinion by voting to arrange a replacement card. The spare card... we'll wait a little longer. With the number, please. Mr Vomáčka votes with replacement card number 35, so this is recorded. And I am now voting on the proposal for a new point made by President Andrej Babiš. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 44, 162 votes were cast, for 73, against 86. Thus, this proposal for a new point has been rejected. And now Minister Kupka wants to sign up, which he can do with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u16	I accept Mr Vondráček's factual procedural objection and that point which I have named The Spread of Fear, Hate and Proven Nonsense from Andrej Babiš's mouth will be read in the appropriate procedural order in order to correspond to the Order of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-000-000.u17	So you're pulling back, Mr. Secretary? [[Yes.]] The proposer withdraws, so this is settled, all proposals to change the meeting and we can proceed to the first point of today's meeting, which is item number
