ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended /German press 312/ - third reading We interrupted this item at the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 14 June 2023. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiffs Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Member Radovan Vích. I would like to remind you that the amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the press 312/3, which was delivered on 16 December. 2022, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 312/4. I also note that the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to restrict speaking time for 20 minutes, with the agreement that the Member may speak at most twice in the debate. At the same time, it stated that the vote on the proposals submitted and the draft law as a whole will take place today at 11 o'clock. [[9.10 hours]] We will therefore continue the interrupted debate. The last performer was President Schillerová, who announced that she had ended her performance, but it is not entirely clear from the tapestry. Anyway, you have an application here with priority rights. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Now, get to the point. Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, on Wednesday I spoke a lot about the obsession of the pirát, the obsession of the chairman of the four-member Pirates, Jakub Michálek, who may even fall asleep with the photo of Andrej Babiš. And also about how the whole coalition is savvy with him, even though you must be very well aware -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u3	I'm sorry, Madam President. Colleagues, co-workers, please move your calls to the lobby and please keep your voice down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u4	Thank you, Madam President, thank you for arranging the peace. I'd better read it again. On Wednesday, I spoke a lot about the obsession of the pirát, the obsession of the chairman of the four-member Pirates, Jakub Michálek, who may be falling asleep with the photo of Andrej Babiš, and also about how the whole coalition has been able to second him, even though you must be very well aware that what is happening here goes beyond everything this House has been used to for the last 33 years. I want this to be clear. Mr. Jakub Michálek is dangerous! [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] He's dangerous to the future of all of us and our democracy. But most of all, the rest of you are responsible. You just gave the pirát a toy so they wouldn't disturb you and make too much of a mess in the government. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] But in the meantime, you don't care about the damage they're doing. It's actually a win-win for you. While the pirát play and heal their minds, they may not even have noticed the number of CZK 290 billion. That is the result of the state budget management these days. Hello, colleagues from the Pirate Party, through the President, do you know that? While not half of this year's calendar has been cut off, the state budget deficit under your government has already reached its entire annual ceiling. It is the worst result of the economics in the history of the Czech Republic, and it is also the biggest failure of fiscal policy that any of us can remember. Doesn't that really bother you? However, this is not a surprising failure, but the logical outcome of a series of critical errors committed by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, well supported by Prime Minister Petr Fiala in the last 12 months or so. That's not what you're talking about. What happened to us as opposition, as well as countless economists, including those on the National Budget Board, was warned: Budget camouflage, distorted estimates, tricks and fraud triggered a domino effect, resulting in the current budgetary agony, which slowly but certainly begins to realise one of the ministers after another. There's no sign of the Pirát, not a word. A state that, in less than half a year without exceptional and unexpected crisis situations, hopelessly exceeds its annual budget balance is a paralyzed state. But all we can hear from you is Babiš, Babiš, Babiš. When I am over the absurd situation where, in this economic situation, we approve of an unconstitutional label in an unconstitutional way and to see all those who played the last defender of democracy a few years ago and who had the audacity to call themselves a democratic coalition, I am thinking of such an analogy that I hope will never happen. I stress - I hope it never happens. I really hope that at some point in the future there will not be a majority who will assert that only a person who has something professionally behind him in his field can become a Member, that he must have some visible professional clue that he must prove some degree of expertise that the majority will not want to create a House composed only of experts. It would disqualify part of the public, especially young people, and that is unacceptable. I'm sure my colleague Jakub Michálek wouldn't be here with us. But I say that would be totally unacceptable to me, and I would be doing the same thing here, just like I'm doing now that we're dealing with the same basically, even though a mirror-reverse design. The basic principle of our democracy is that passive electoral rights are enjoyed by every citizen who reaches 21 years of age. Period. And the one who decides whether anyone should become a Member of Parliament, whether they will gain the trust of citizens, these are the very people, the citizens who vote for us. This is not us Members, Mr Michálek, through Madam President. That's how it all works. Any condition you add to that, you just crash and bend that principle. Don't really hide for fighting for the rule of law. You've been getting away with this invention, for example, in opposition. Do you fight, for example, to prevent tax fraud from going back to being caused by your government, as is the custom behind the ODS governments? You may have noticed that last week, the head of the Office of European Public Prosecutor Laura Codruța Kövesi arrived in the Czech Republic in person to appeal to the Czech Government on the declining number of tax cuts detected, the decreasing clarification of cases and the increasing VAT fraud. According to the head of the Euro Prosecutors, the strings of international tax mafias are starting to run again into the Czech Republic, and our country, after years, becomes again an enclave of so-called missing traders, or fake companies, created to commit VAT fraud. Exactly those frauds that we managed to eliminate in the course of 2018 and 2019 by a consistently implemented series of measures virtually completely. Yes, it is. Almost completely eliminated. I will mention in this context that the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in its Annual Report 2018 highlighted the activities of the Tax Cobra as well as more effective control activities of the Financial Administration through measures such as control reports or electronic records of sales. In the same year, according to its annual report, the National Centre against Organised Crime recorded a deviation from VAT crime, the exposure of fictitious invoices or participation in carousel fraud, also due to the narrowing of the scope for committing this crime due to increased checks by the financial authorities or the introduction of control reports. The Supreme Audit Office then pointed out in its report on taxes in the Czech Republic from 2014 to 2017 the successful implementation of the fight against tax evasion and improved tax collection. Also according to the Centre for Economic and Market Analyses, the shadow economy in the Czech Republic has decreased during the reign of YES, which, according to the institution, was due, for example, to the EET, but also to the fight against the black market for spirits or the success of the Tax Cobra in the fight against tax fraud. Yes, the daňový kobra we haven't heard a peep about in 500 days. [[9.20 hours]] You will understand that the renaissance of the grey economy and tax crime caused directly by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura consistently applying the distorted ODS philosophy that proper tax collection equals bullying entrepreneurs is an incredibly depressing phenomenon for me. As a person who has been in the Financial Administration for almost his entire professional life, I understand very well the hopelessness of tax officials, who are gradually beginning to repress the gallows, the sly and organized criminals and the mobsters. And don't give a damn, dear pirátský Party. No, you don't give a shit, you're directly involved. For the last time, I would like to appeal from this place to the more sensible part of the coalition: Do not be led by the Pirates and do not let them create dangerous precedents that can turn against anyone at any time. Refuse Mr. Michálek's totalitarian practices. They're not gonna get out of that coalition anyway. They can't, they need their seats. But I believe that if you raise your hand, at least the Senate will not succumb to this political activism and that it will behave like the insurance that it should be. But if it goes all the way to President Pavel, I believe that the second time will not be a sign of unconstitution. However, if all these safeguards fail, the YES movement will turn to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u5	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Michálek came forward, and before I give him my word, I will read his apologies. Šalomoun Michal apologizes until 11 a.m. and from 12 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention only one - through Madam President - the old known truth. If you're pointing at someone, you're pointing one finger at him and three fingers back at each other. [[Fun on the left.]] So you're saying I'm obsessed. Yes, I'm persistent, yes, but who's obsessed? I remember you showing me the diary that Andrej Babiš signed on to, how completely abducted you were. So it seems to me that you really are pointing at yourself with three fingers. When we're talking about your party, your chairman called our people psychopaths, he had to apologize for it because he was ordered by the court at Lukáš Wagenknecht. Again, do you happen to point three fingers at yourself, through Madam President, when you say that we are dangerous? Do you remember, through Madam President, trying to control the state prosecutor's office during the last parliamentary term so that you could have most of the members in the committees that will select them? [[Diarrhea and laughter on the left.]] Three fingers on each other. Or when you say that we have no other program than Babiš, while here it seems that you really have no other priority than to paralyze the entire Chamber of Deputies for the economic interests of one person, do you not point your fingers at yourself? I think you really have reached the level of being master of self-projection. With each other's next personal attack on this meeting, you only show three times as much of yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mr Vondráček came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm not gonna point that finger at you to point three fingers at me. If you say you are not obsessed - through Madam President - then explain to me the obsession you have. Why do you have to apply every amendment that is an adhesive to every law that seems to stand a constitutional lawsuit after that? Explain it to me. I mean, you have the most, you as pirát have the most political deputies in all ministries. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] I mean, you guys always set up places there! I mean, you guys aren't gonna be able to get into practice, so you're getting a warm spot. Because you're not... Because all of a sudden you came here to the Chamber of Deputies and you got those benefits, and now, like you said proudly, we can live without it -- I was still a deputy minister, but beware, I was an expert deputy minister, I wasn't political like you. Yeah, I've got the schools. Perhaps, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, this seems ridiculous to you, but it does not seem ridiculous to me. I've worked harder in this practice than you have. That must be it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u9	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Vondráček. Did you download it? Yes. Mr Feranec is now signed in and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what Mr. Michálek here said. He reasoned with whether they were dangerous. I say you're dangerous. And you're dangerous at how you design these laws. That sticker of yours, that's a legal handymanship. You guys are dealing, you're interfering with business rights and so on and so on, but I'm saying, it's legal care. And you know what's completely absurd about your proposal? If, in theory, the Mafra were transferred to the YES movement today, it's perfectly fine, it's perfectly legal. Does that seem normal to you? That's actually the result of your legal handiwork. So just think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u11	Thank you. Now, Mrs Ožanová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u12	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am just going to soften things up a bit. I'd go back to primary school when we were learning to read. What law are we debating now? Let us look at the board: Amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties. We are not discussing the conflict of interest law today. So I think that some Members who put amendments that belong to somewhere else should first learn to read and see which law they stick their sticker to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Nacher with a point of fact, then Mrs Renata Oulehlová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna point at a colleague like this, I can point my hands open like this, and no fingers point at me, and suddenly I'm your lens off the hook. [[He's pointing his finger.]] But it was said here that someone was stalling and sharpening something. Let's do it again. The first reading of this law, with which the Interior Minister came - 25 minutes, second reading - 25 minutes. Then, just before the end, a colleague of Michálek comes along, puts in a thing that doesn't belong here at all. It's a classic label that pirát normally fight against, and suddenly it stretches. So you're stalling. You're stalling. This bill could have been long gone by now, and we could have been discussing something completely different here. You put a last-minute sticker on it, and then you're so surprised. First remark. The other one about who always promised and then failed. You promised to fight those smugglers. But you're a symbol of those undersecretaries. And I'm gonna say it here again, like I said. Because your Deputys aren't the deputy professors, they're not the deputy professors who would prepare for it. Why? Well, because they normally ran here to the Chamber of Deputies. If STAN hadn't crossed them, they'd be sitting between us. And by being circled, they stayed in the air, and you put them in the Deputys' seats. So you broke everything you've always fought against in a completely crystalline way. So it's really unfair of you to blame someone else for this and this. So, colleague, if you download it, put it where it belongs, put it where it belongs, in the law, not here. [[Laughter and applause from the YES benches.]] And maybe that'll be the end of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Renata Oulehlová will now speak and prepare Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u16	I wish you all a beautiful day. I would just like to say to Mr Michálek here, through Madam President: pan Michálek, you and your party often degenerate people who have done something in their lives who have some results that have some life experience. I understand that your life experience, your personal experience, isn't yet, but we've all been through that. But I would very much like you, not only to you, but to the entire Pirate Party, more humility. Because humility is not weakness. Humility is a force wrapped in tenderness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u17	Thank you. Now, Mrs Válková, with de facto effect, and as the last so far signed up for action, is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues - now I've turned it into gender. I wanted to draw attention to one thing in this context to the press. There has already been repeated mention of a threat to passive electoral law in this sense, and little has so far been pointed out - in my soon-to-be speech I will come back to this - that is, a change in the course of another press discussion, a completely change in the rules for one of us. In this case, and this should also be highlighted here, it does not matter whether it is the President of the YES movement or any other Member. Here are set other rules - and I want to say it in that factual remark as such a certain foreplay for my next speech - during the course of the game. And the other rules are set by Mr Michálek, by your means, and therefore, in my opinion, it must be no wonder that some of us call him a danger. I don't call him dangerous, I think we know each other well enough as lawyers to know his strengths and weaknesses. I don't politically judge him, I just want to say that on this microphone, he never attacked me in connection with the dissident bullying case, just for the record. And I think justice must always be respected, so it's fair to say it behind the counter. And I'll get back to the 312 press. So I think that such mutual critical reservations that do not yet exceed the degree that the mandate and immune committee would have to deal with, so that I am very grateful for that. [[Time.]] I hope that this will not happen in the course of this discussion. [[Time, Madame!]] [[Time, Madame!]] It's time to set the record straight... Okay, well, I guess it's my turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u19	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mrs Věra Adámková will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u20	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to respond to Mr Jakub Michálek, through you, Madam President, and again I would like to say to him, and to everyone here in the Chamber of Deputies, especially the Members of Coalition, that we are currently discussing the law on association in the political parties under the Ministry of the Interior. Today, when I went to the House, I once again heard in the media that we are tightening up the conflict of interest law. But we approve a law on association in political parties that controls political parties. He doesn't control public officials! Public officials are controlled by the Ministry of Justice through the Department of Conflict of Interest and Combating Corruption. And I ask again and again appeal to Mr Michálek why he will not submit an amendment to the conflict of interest law, so that he can check on the authority that is approved to do so, which is intended to do so, which is absolutely apolitical at the Ministry of Justice, because he has a state secretary, all the officials who do so have clear expertise, university education and so on. Compared to the Office to oversee the financing of political parties, because there the appointment is the President on the basis of the nomination of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. Because it is clear that the financial limits of political parties' campaigns are being controlled there. So, Mr. Michálek, I'm calling you again, present the law to which it relates, present the thing you want to put forward, and bring it in the right way. But also from a financial point of view, in all respects, it is absolutely unsystemic and counter-intelligent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Adámková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the previous debate has led me to believe that we need to clarify some things. I must say that I expect many of my colleague Michálek's speeches with some joy, because he is mostly spice something that makes you think. Not that I agree, but notice the humility in honoring his opinion and honoring him. So I'd start with two things. First of all, your pointing, you're questioning Ampérův's rule of right hand in physics, because those fingers in the palm don't point at each other, but they show something completely different. [[Resurrection in YES benches.]] So since I'm a physicist, I'm sorry, I have to say that. But it describes the orientation of magnetic induction lines when passing through a direct conductor or coil. And so if the thumb of the right hand shows the direction of the electric current in the conductor, then the crouched fingers show the orientation of the magnetic induction lines. We all have different... I respect your explanation, I have another explanation. So just to see that the plurality of opinions is complete. And then I would like to remind you, here many of you have a significant humanitarian education to save ourselves some things, so I will not even say who said that quote, surely everyone or many you know: Lord, I deeply disagree with your opinion, but I will fight for you to say it! And I would very much like this House to honor this classic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Vondráček is the last person to sign up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm afraid to show any way I can, and I'm gonna say the whole thing, and I'm gonna be arm and neck. First of all, if we're talking about who's stalling, who's bouncing - please, I have an old article here. The pirate has complicated the mayor's efforts to miss the estate confessions. We are experiencing déjà vu here, Mr President Michálek, through the President. You've done this to us before. At a time when the MPs of all the MPs here tried to relieve the local politicians, then put it together after the constitutional finding, you made your amendment and blocked the House. Now you've done it again! Here sits the Minister of the Interior, to deal with association in political parties, not to delay - I show open palms, please - it's about the same in this atmosphere, but let's have fun really like adults, at least places. I just want to say that the concept of legal DIY or parliamentary DIY used by my colleague Feranec is very mild, improving political culture in this country, because it can be marked by terms much, much worse. And I'm sorry the Home Secretary has to sit here for something else. Well, I don't feel sorry for him any other time, but I feel especially sorry for him today. [[Laughter on the left.]] And you really think we've worked something out in this debate? Here's the answer. What's it gonna take? Here's the answer, what's the real owner gonna do that's never gonna erase himself from the real record if he's the founder, he's just not gonna change that? And the other questions? Retroactive issues of conflict, interference with passive electoral law. Did the answers come out here? They didn't. Because there is no proper legislative process here. And since the entire conflict of interest belongs to the Justice Department, as my colleague Vildumetzová said, I suggest that we interrupt that point to the presence of the Minister of Justice. We have nothing to worry about here, the Minister of the Interior. We're here to torment the Minister of Justice with your amendment. Time has passed, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u25	Yes, it has. So you're making a procedural proposal. [[Member Michálek reporting.]] Do you have any other counterproposals regarding the procedural proposal? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor. I have an alternative proposal because the proposal may concern - because we are talking about subsidies that go to agriculture, as well as to the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. [[A voice from the diaper: Which one?]] Minister of Agriculture. Here are the questions from the opposition, which Minister of Agriculture? So the Minister of Agriculture, who carries out his duties until the end of June, i.e. Minister Nekula. Well, I think other ministers might be present, but I'll leave the other plaintiffs to make alternative proposals. But maybe there could be a second alternative proposal to the Ministry of Finance, but I'll leave it to some other speaker. Thank you. Of course, I consider these proposals to be further efforts to obstruct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u27	Yes, so we have two procedural proposals here. We will be the first to vote on the proposal by President Michálek, who proposes to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 153 Members of Parliament signed up, for 68, against 64. The motion was denied. And now we will vote on Mr Vondráček's proposal to interrupt negotiations on this point in the presence of Minister of Justice Blažek. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 154 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 72, against 74. The motion was denied. We will therefore continue to discuss this proposal. I have here an application with a factual remark by Mr Vondráček and then by Mr Nacher. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as a constructive opposition, we supported the alternative proposal made by Mr Michálek, but I have registered that Mr Michálek voted against himself. That's no longer legal DIY, that's a serious problem with the integrity of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Nacher, then Mrs Válková, made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u30	Thank you. Well, I was gonna say something like that. So it doesn't add up here that my colleague Michálek said they were obstructive proposals, and then he himself will submit the obstructive proposal here. So he's actually sharpening himself. And then on that obstructive proposal, he votes against his obstructive proposal. That's completely absurd, what we're experiencing here right now. And now my colleague is checking out the voting stock. Well, that's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mrs Válková, with a point of fact, has been the last one so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u32	Thank you. I just want to say that I am correcting my statement, and I have to admit that this adjective is dangerous on the spot, because the unpredictability of my colleague Jakub Michálek's actions is really dangerous on your part. So I think he's a little dangerous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u33	Thank you. We have drawn up all the factual points and now Vice-President Havlíček will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will undoubtedly push us over a few hours, rape the Chamber of Deputies again, and I am almost certain that we will not be able to reverse that. But even so, after many of my colleagues have spoken here, allow me to recapitulate on ten points, rather ten questions. And I will point these questions at the part of the Coalition Members, where I still think they have common sense. And please, just one thing -- just internally, when I say it, answer it, of course, you don't have to present it anywhere, you don't have to play any media anywhere, if you do or don't, I don't want any more of you to realize the absurdity you're interested in pushing through here today. So there'll be ten, I'll be short, don't worry. I think we agree that the law is meant to protect citizens. It should not be an instrument of attack on political opponents, and certainly, if you do not succeed in political warfare, which can sometimes happen to you, sometimes to us, that is simply reality, we must not change laws because of it. The question is, just try to answer if the YES movement had 4 percent or 5 percent preferences, if you would change this law with this sticker. Everything. You don't have to answer me out loud. Two. Lexing ourselves in the Czech Republic. I believe that we may agree with a reasonable part of the Members that it is the laws of à la lex - and it does not matter if it is the Lex Babiš number one, two, three, sixteen, or if it is the Lex of CEZ, or if it is the Lex of renewable energy. I'm just saying that lex CEZ and lex renewable energy sources are what you're up to, or you've done, or you're going to do in this parliamentary term, even in the coming weeks or months. Lex Babiš, I don't even bow anymore. So let's just say it's right or it's wrong. Three. Thanks to this, we will reduce considerably the number of capable people who would like to go into politics. Because today it's about businessmen, tomorrow it can be about lawyers, because even lawyers sit here, lawyers change laws and then apply them, even lecture them in universities and so on. And it's not just that the person who wants to go into politics and needs to be successful in his field, so he's not going to go there because these things are done in the sense that he already has those barriers. I'm looking at it from the point of view of tomorrow. Imagine a normal person saying right, so I'm gonna sacrifice something here, sell what I've been building so far, I'm gonna go into politics. And then how is he supposed to believe that if he ends up in opposition, which is not entirely excluded, and even if he wants to be in politics for a while, there's a coalition that's gonna change everything again, and what he went there with and what he was counting on, he's gonna be completely different again. He'll just say he doesn't need it. How's this gonna work out? We're gonna have 200 people here who are less experienced, less successful, we're gonna have 200 masters of Michálek. Do we? Just answer the question. You don't have to say out loud if we want 200 masters of Michálek here. Four. Retroactivity. In principle, I resent anything that is done when the principle is not accepted or introduced, it doesn't matter, retroactivity. It was the same with the valorizations in February when we did it here. You remember that the valorization, when it was to be done in a violent way, was to be done by January 31st, it was done later, and it's true backwards. Answer yourself again if it's right that something is being introduced retroactively. That means, once again, you've done something, you've entered somewhere, you've started doing some kind of activity, then there's some kind of political garniture, it changes, it falls on you, and we're right where we are. So let's just answer if retroactivity is so exaggerated, and I'm even saying it shouldn't be at all, it's correct. [[9.50 hours]] Next - Five. The basic requirement for the creation of a legal standard is generality. We have a number of experienced and good lawyers here, and I dare say the people I respect, the opposition parties. What does that mean? Simply, the law must not be targeted at one subject. And again, let's answer whether the objective of this law or this sticker is that it falls to a particular subject. Nothing more, nothing less. For the next -- for the sixth. I am actually convinced that it limits the freedom of business. What makes a businessman worse than a lawyer or a doctor or anyone else? Why can't an entrepreneur enter politics? Why are we limiting it to him? We've already limited it to him recently. Among other things, it was the Lex Babiš, I think it's a one or a two, I'm already lost in it, which means only up to a certain percentage. What makes the businessmen worse? Is that some kind of special profession? Weird profession? No. It's a perfectly normal profession, isn't it? Someone's a doctor, somebody's a teacher, somebody's a businessman. Why are we making it hard for them? Or is it that we do not want entrepreneurs to go into politics? Only a lunatic can go in there today if he's a businessman. First of all, because it's already sewn up so much that it can't actually do almost anything in the business, and next of all, because it's going to have a perfectly logical and correct fear that even if it goes in there, it meets everything, that it's not written anywhere, that in a year, two, three, when it's needed in that opposition, you're going to change it again and everything will be different. Besides, I don't understand another thing at all. A small businessman, big, medium, so one who, I don't know, runs agriculture, has one employee, or even none, he's a businessman, and he doesn't bother us that much, and he who needs to be big, so he does. I don't understand. I don't understand. Personally, I wouldn't make any barriers for businessmen. I don't see any reason to put them on the edge of society. Seven. If this is already done, why is it done in the form of an amendment? Why is there no proper expert discussion on this? Why don't you do it properly in the interreort? The Government's Legislative Council and all that? And again, just answer yourself if it's right, if it's such a triviality that can only be dealt with in this accelerated form. And that has to do with point number eight, and that's the sticker. It's been dropped many times. We all know that this is a law on association in political parties. He has absolutely nothing to do with the conflict of interest law. Still, you put it there, and at the last minute, it's like a sticker. And just a question: is it right that this important thing is put there as a sticker? Again, let's just answer if we do or not. I'm a little sorry, which I never thought I'd say here, but I regret Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan. He has to suffer like an animal here because he basically has a normal good law here. And he's already sitting there... [[Minister Austrian's response from the rapporteur's desk.]] I know you say it's okay, but I can see you're nervous about it. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You're having coffee. I'm happy for you. No, but really, your law is fine, it's good. That's why I'm saying you have to suffer here. You could've been behind him by now... But he's your coalition partner, or he was your coalition partner. This law is redundant. And let's just answer if that's true or not? Why? Because today there is a strict regulation to prevent politicians from influencing the media. This is the original lex Babiš xy, which prevents public officials, and I will read it here precisely: "to conduct radio and television broadcasting or to publish periodic printing by radio or television broadcasters or by the publisher of the periodic press or by a companion, member or controlling person of a legal person who is a radio or television broadcasting operator or the publisher of the periodic press." It's clearly written here. Why are we doing this again? So I'm just saying it's redundant. And ask yourself if this makes you feel or doesn't seem to be redundant. And the last one. I won't bother you anymore. In my opinion, it is completely absurd. Why? First of all, we're in social networking times. At this time, when someone is active on social networks, they can hit hundreds of thousands, even millions of different listeners or followers, I don't know what it's all called. And we're actually saying here that someone who's going to publish some kind of professional little press, beekeeper, anything else, can't de facto. While you influence millions of people on social media, it's perfectly okay. Seems to me like the law that's going on in the '90s, and now I don't mean it pejoratively against the '90s, but I mean that with regard to the development of new technologies and everything. And once again, let's ask ourselves if maybe I'm a little bit right about this? And the very last absurd thing I'm saying is that this is absurd is one simple thing. If anyone wants to gain the media's favor, don't be angry, but they don't have to buy a label for it. It's just a simple thing: they buy journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to set the record straight here that this law will make it difficult for entrepreneurs to enter politics. I think it is right that both entrepreneurs and other professions are represented in politics. This law concerns the fact that a member of the government must not take subsidies and investment incentives - subsidies and investment incentives that depend on the decision of the official who is subordinate to the government. And secondly, a politician must not own media houses. That's something we already have in the law, it's just being precise about the concept of the real owner. So it really doesn't have anything to do with tightening the conditions for businessmen. Perhaps only for those who specifically want to live off non-interest subsidies and own a large media house. There are very few entrepreneurs like that. I'll take one example. Tomáš Baťa, perhaps the most famous entrepreneur in the Czech Republic, never owned a large media house, never took subsidies because he considered it a moral failure. So that's... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] This is Tomáš Baťa, with whom some other politicians have sometimes compared themselves. So let's just remember, this law really doesn't restrict business in any way. A further response through Madam President to Mr Havlíček. Mr. Havlíček probably didn't even read the proposal, because small magazines like beekeepers and so on do not concern the proposal at all. So before you, please, colleagues, talk about legal DIY, get to know the proposal. This law applies only to large media houses, which are obliged by law to draw up financial statements. No beekeepers. And once there's online media regulation and you propose that the law be added to it, I'll support it. But so far, we have no regulation in the laws of online media. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u37	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Radek Vondráček is now making a point of fact. Vice-President Havlíček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. I think the performance of my colleague Michálek is one of the reasons why I am and will remain in politics - to fight these demagogues here. Because it's pure manipulation with a honey voice. It's not that a businessman can't own the media, it's more specific. You're saying that the stricter definition of the prohibition on owning the media and the prohibition on accepting subsidies and investment incentives by public officials and companies that they actually own. That's where the dirtiest thing is in the detail. The term is misleading. The real owner is a term based on the record of the real owners that was... This law is adopted on the basis of the AML Directive and is primarily directed against the fight against organised crime and terrorism. And the problem is, once you're the founder of a trust fund, you're forever registered as the real owner, and there's nothing you can do about it. The concept of the real owner who's being abused at the moment, so that's the pure Lex Babiš. That's the extermination element of the law. That's the purely neomarxist element we've been talking about all along. Because this man has no real influence on the business, and yet you disqualify him from public life and from the performance of public functions. [[10.00 hours]] Explain to me, my colleague, through the President, what your view of blind trusts, for example abroad, is that the legislation they have in Croatia, for example, that when someone goes into politics, he can put his property in the administration - such as law firms - he can pursue politics and then he can return. But your proposal makes it completely impossible. After all, we were inspired by blind trusts when we adopted trust funds in the Civil Code, so the inspiration was Canadian legislation, if I remember correctly. [[Time.]] So that's what the trusts are for. [[Time.]] That's what trust funds are for. That's just not enough for you. You want to get Andrej Babiš out of politics...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u39	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Havlíček, then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u40	I say this all the time - progressivists, activists, socialists, neo-marxists, Prime Minister Michálek, through Madam President, would be pale of envy, what you just said. You guys are out of your mind. You say - a small publishing house, a big publishing house. What's it to you? We're in a free society, no matter what everyone does. Or do you want to dictate to him that he's supposed to own two magazines, one that he's supposed to do it online, that he's supposed to do it in any way? Everyone has the right to do what they want, what they want in business, if they do it properly. Why are you sorting this out for us again? Something incredible. You, in that holy war against Babiš in terms of subsidies, are pouring out a bathtub and a child, completely. What are you saying about subsidies? Please go and see the TACR programs! I was in České Budějovice last week! Hospitals together with the Academy of Sciences, together with the TACR, the Technological Agency, and with a small startup do what they diagnose based on artificial intelligence incredible things within sick people! And you want to take it away from these people, or, respectively, let them do it to each other, but can't these people enter politics? You guys really went crazy in that five-wheel drive! Please, are you going to suffer out there, these fools?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u41	Thank you. President Schillerová will make a point of fact, and Mr Lang will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u42	Your wisdom, Prime Minister Michálek, through Madam Vice-President, is something! Baťa considered subsidies immoral. What are you talking about? You were there? What kind of subsidies in Bati's time? What are you talking about? I would like to compare that to your quote from January 18, 2018: Don't believe everything you see on the Internet. Masaryk already said that. - says pirát Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u43	Thank you. Now, Mr Hubert Lang, with a factual remark, then Mr králíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u44	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. So the second day of the Chamber of Deputies is blocking Mr Michálek's sticker. We here have heard from the five-calice that we are supposed to be rational, that laws are not being discussed here, how much it costs the Chamber of Deputies' meeting day, that it is x million crowns. And we've been here really the second day, instead of focusing on the important things that are bothering our society today, such as expensive energy prices, such as the refugee crisis and other dozens of things, so we're dealing with Mr. Michálek's obsession here. When I registered in his last statement by Tomáš Baťa, who said that Tomáš Baťa did not receive subsidies and blah blah blah - I don't know if the first republics received subsidies to this extent, I'm not that experienced, maybe it would be good for someone to answer this, I was just waiting to see if Mr. Michálek pulled out that Tomáš Baťa had Internet too and moved on the Internet like Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk did. And I really don't know. I think that Mr. Michálek really isn't on the edge of his obsession anymore, and I think that maybe he should live his young life under the supervision of a skilled nurse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u45	Thank you. That was Mr Lang's point of fact, now with Mr králíček in fact, then Mr Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u46	Madam President, colleagues, I, too, have traditionally had to respond to President Michálek, through the President. It seems to me like a parallel to Dan Köppl's appeal, where the pirát stood here and said that they were after the law, justice, order - and they didn't really care that Mr Poledníček is a politician, that he stayed there, that he didn't give up his mandate, that the President of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council was a member of the ODS. They don't mind. It's similar here. You have to say here that he's just... to improve the policy and so on, but the point is to eliminate Andrej Babiš. Since you, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, do you not mind, perhaps, that Minister Jurečka has transferred the farm to his wife and continues to receive subsidies that Minister Válek has transferred the business to his son and continues to do business and maybe also receive subsidies in the field of health care? Is that okay with you? So where's your justice? That, with all due respect, is at least Nacherův's double standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr Vondráček will now speak with the facts, Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u48	Thank you. I really have a point in this case. I would have responded to my previous speaker, Mr Michálek, when he quoted Tomáš Baťa. I'm from Zlin County, we've got Baťův's Channel. And for your information, Baťův's channel was mostly funded by a subsidy from the Department of Labour so that people would have jobs in the 1930s. So sometimes it's good to know more about it before you start using a quote and then somehow fit it in some way and, more importantly, fit it in on Babiš at all costs. Well, sometimes it really doesn't work out. If you declare here - and I agree with you - that the subsidies will distort the free market and the market environment and that it is basically evil and poison, then I will totally agree with you. But that must therefore be abolished completely, and not as the current government does, that it will only disturb the national ones and that it will damage our entrepreneurs, our farmers and all those who participate in the single market of the European Union, because other countries are still giving those national subsidies, and the European Union essentially determines the direction of the European Union through subsidies. She's controlling it. That's her way of ruling. These are just the socialist elements that bother us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact, then Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'll follow up on my colleague Robert Králíček. Since Marek Poledníček is from the Karlovy Vary Region, I will really confirm that we have the council on Monday, and in no way have I noticed that he would give up the mandate of the representative, as President Výborný has announced here, who said immediately after the election, because he became a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, and to this day he has not passed the mandate. So it's practically saying something, and then it's completely, completely different. At the same time, Mr Michálek, through Madam President, I would like to have a really substantive debate with you, a fair debate, and I would really like to ask you why the proposal that you bring, why don't you bring it into the conflict of interest law, to do so by the body that is meant for the Minister of Justice? [[And?]] Could you really answer that correctly? Because I also believe that there will be higher financial costs, that it will be non-systemic, that the Minister of the Interior does not agree - or the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior will say a neutral position today. The Bureau doesn't agree with that either. And I keep repeating, the Bureau controls political parties and the Department of Conflict of Interests at the Justice Department controls public officials. And what you're presenting is touches public officials or public officials. Please, will you answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u51	Thank you. It is now Mrs Dostálová's turn to make a point of fact, and Mr Brož will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u52	Thank you. I, too, would have a factual comment on President Michálek, by your means. I don't understand it either. We're dealing with a sticker here today, which means something that isn't supposed to be in this law at all. You want to increase the number of officials in the office to which this is not at all due, and at the same time you pride yourself in the media, as you approve anti-bureaucratic packages. Well, I don't understand it anymore, because of course, the left-hand bureaucracy here probably doesn't know what she's doing right. However, my performance in particular is for subsidies. Since you are bowing here from the left, from the right, I would like to say, because I hope that there are also coalition MEPs here today, who maybe were not here on Wednesday when I spoke about it, I am based on the material that the government has discussed, where this material clearly shows that the so-called horizontal risks for drawing European funds in the area of conflict of interest - and I quote from the material - all the demands of the European Commission in this area have been met by the Czech Republic, and the prevention of conflicts of interest is thus properly set in the procedures of individual governing bodies. [[10.10 hours]] Second risk. Risk of suspension of payments by the European Commission with reasons for linking it to the Trust Fund. All measures to eliminate this risk have been met, as confirmed by the European Commission in the letter sent by letter dated 21. 10. 2022. This is a letter canceling all previous warnings by the European Commission. So I hope that it's clear to everyone that what's happening here today is really redundant from the point of view of drawing subsidies, and really everyone must feel completely that it's going in one particular hateful direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Brož is now in office, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a factual comment to my colleague, Mr Havlíček, when I would, in particular, respond to his appeal to the common sense of the remaining five-calice Members. I will return to 2006/2007, when the stickers quite broke the bag in the pre-election period and all the people, the media wondered how the law on state symbols is related to compensation for clients of bankrupt banks or the trade law with rhinos in zoos. I jump to 2023 and ask: How is the law on association in political parties related to the law on conflict of interest? Not at first sight. In my opinion, then, neither at second sight, nor at third view, nor at fourth view, nor at other view. So I'm going to remind you, and I'm going to go back to that history, a few statements. Jiří Pospíšil, Minister of Justice of the ODS, now Alderman of the City of Prague: The label is a poor quality phenomenon that leads to poor quality of legislation. I would like to quote another, I think a generally very respected policy: it is unfortunately a scary tax on election time, and this is what we are talking about, not that we are not even in the middle of the term. In general, the old British saying that one cannot be sure of one's life, property or freedom as long as Parliament meets. It's double before the election. I remind you, that was before the election, not halfway through when everything could be discussed in a normal way. And it goes on: What is happening here is really beyond the borders, but it also shows how weak the government and the government coalition are. He doesn't have the room under control anymore, and everyone here in the House is already doing what they want - says Marek Benda. So, colleagues, think about these words and stop being blackmailed by the pirát. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u55	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, it is Mrs Balaštíková's turn to prepare the Member...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u56	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to the previous speaker, Mr Michálek, through you, Madam President. Mr Michálek, Czech agriculture has been destroyed through uneven subsidies in the EU. That's just the way it was, thanks to the subsidies. I always say that if all subsidies in the EU were abolished for agriculture, our farmers would survive. If the Němec, the Francouz, the Rakušan survive, I'm not convinced, I don't know. It's not right, but that's how it happens. And your government made it even better by making our weak subsidies to our farmers, so you humiliated them even more, the finance minister cut it even more, so our farmers are even less competitive. You're wondering about the high prices of our food, and you're doing everything you can to make it go completely to the knees of agriculture. I don't know. Do you just want to have a beautiful green country here? Did someone pay you for this? Or is it intent? Or is it ignorance? I'm afraid it might be a combination of everything, a little bit of each. And I just want to tell you that if I can, I'm willing to enforce a total ban on subsidies to agriculture throughout the EU. And also a ban on what they bring here from third countries, which is not entirely in line with our European standards. And then I wonder if those German yogurt guys are still gonna be coming in here to see if the potatoes are still coming in from somewhere else, 'cause their prices are gonna be so high, we're gonna start laughing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u57	Thank you. I am asking... Mr Bureš, then Mrs Berenika Peštová, is registered with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u58	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I originally thought that I would not perform at all, because my colleagues, when I see 71 prepared for the debate, have successfully orchestrated their own speeches, but I have to respond to one thing. But I see that my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is not here, so please be so kind as to tell her that Marek Poledníček will resign for the last June to the mandate of both regional and city representatives, because he is taking up the post of member of the Radio and Television Council on 1 July.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová, with a point of fact, was the last one so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to supplement my previous speaker, Klára Dostálová, through you. If the European Commission has no complaints and everything has been healed, then I do not understand Mr Michálek's thought march through you. Because if I look into my practice, if you have received any or any complaint from the European Commission, which, in fact, Mr Michálek will certainly know that it was so-called infringement, we must immediately... we have started negotiations with the European Commission, if we have to heal it in the context of opening the law and amending it. If it couldn't be healed by a decree and we had to open the law, then it had logic, because we had to heal. If we do not heal, there will be an immediate reasoned position, where the fines were threatened and so forth. So I'm just asking, what's the point of this when this European Commission doesn't require us, and yet you are fiercely, fiercely trying to change this law through an amendment of a completely different law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Brázdil made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Maybe not a factual one, but a procedural one. Colleagues, co-workers, I'd like to ask you if we could interrupt the meeting in the presence of the Treasury Secretary. For one thing, I think you're all gonna want to wish him a happy birthday today, he's Zbyněk. And maybe during that wish, words like that will come out: You, Kuba, download it already, don't you know that I have a budget problem? You know, it's gonna weigh down on my budget again, right? And maybe -- and I really asked him, you, Mr. Michálek, through, actually, it's not an address, I asked you, actually it's an address, Mr. Michálek, try to think, download it, unblock it, it's all played out... It all works, you're the man, you did it. And now we're gonna move on and we're gonna keep talking. Make it possible! Colleagues, raise your hand to wait for Zbyněk, let's say goodbye, and maybe the minister will finally say the words: Kubo, download it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u63	Thank you. I have noted your procedural proposal to interrupt this item in the presence of the Minister of Finance. I just point out that the Minister is excused properly, he's on a foreign trip. Please, Prime Minister Michálek with a counterproposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister is excused, and if it takes some time to rest, I am giving the counter-proposal to suspend the House of Deputies for only five minutes. I think that's enough time for colleagues to recover.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u65	So you're making a motion to interrupt for five minutes? To recovery. No, no, that's not why. Okay. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. I'll go on and call in colleagues from the lobby. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We will be the first to vote on President Michálek's counter-proposal for five minutes, then on Mr Brázdil's proposal, who wants to interrupt the negotiations in the presence of the Minister of Finance. [[10.20 hours]] So, first of all, Mr Michálek's proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 150 Members of Parliament signed in, for 3, against 124. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Brázdil's proposal to interrupt the presence of the Minister of Finance Stanjura. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 150 Members and Members signed in for 70, versus 78. The motion was denied. So we will continue to discuss this point. We've exhausted all the factual points. I am now asking Mrs Válková, who, although she is enrolled in the general debate, has the right here to give the opinion of the MP. So I'm asking if you're going to perform like this because then there's no limited speaking time. [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and for that explanation, because I am glad that others have heard, dear colleagues and dear colleagues - as I see they are already leaving - that I have an unlimited right in terms of the time of my speech. I think it is limited mainly because my previous speakers and previous speakers have repeatedly pointed out the biggest flaws of the presented sticker, a surprising amendment to the law on conflict of interest, which has entered into the House press 312, which is an amendment on association in political parties and political movements. So I have such a not-quite-happy role left for you - because, of course, it is not my job to creatively make up some new comments - one more time I'm telling you what's bothering us most. At the same time, allow me to go back a little bit in the past and demonstrate by these factual remarks the claims made by specific facts, because, in law, among other things, there must be evidence for everything. Sometimes it takes a long time for a person to get the truth, sometimes it takes years, but I think that in order to have an objective overview of what happened in connection with the House press 312, it is necessary to go back to that past. As you fall, to whom you fall, something will definitely testify in favor, something in favor. However, in its result it is a testimony and I think it is very eloquent. So the government, and Mr Vích, has already said so, by your means, as rapporteur for this press, submitted the law to the House in September 2022. So if we've heard some objections to the fact that it's been here for almost years, it hasn't been here for years - 2022, the end of September. When I think of my House press - allow me to make a small turn - number 40, where I wanted to speed up divorce and education and nutrition proceedings so that when the parties agree, their agreement can be confirmed with the notary, and thus save the current double-track - the press is still here and did not fall out of the Ministry of Justice, nor from any coalition Member or MP anything reasonable, so this law, House press 312, is here, unlike my proposal sometime from November 2021, I handed it right after the election, just a mere year. Then the first reading took place on October 14, 2022, we ordered the committees to do so. The Guarantee Committee has become the Supervisory Committee. But it is also with regard to some of the things that seemed to be questionable there - there is a very significant weakening of the originally Monocratically built organ, I am talking about the original press, of course, still unenriched, in quotation marks, about the sticker, or the novel on association in political parties and political movements - so we requested it from the constitutionally-legal committee and we got it. The guarantee inspection committee discussed the press on 25 October and recommended approving it precisely because it did not find anything so serious that could not be corrected, possibly supplemented, or challenged as part of the second reading. But it certainly wasn't something that could weaken the Monocratic part, or weaken the Monocratic way of leading that office in favour of the collective, in the democratic elections. I did not agree with one of them very much, but I will also talk about this. The Constitutional Legal Committee for similar reasons - and I am already a member there, so I can say that we also had no fundamental reservations - discussed the bill and issued a recommendation resolution on 3 November. We're still talking about 2022, logically. Then it passed the second reading, and that was December 16, just before Christmas at the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and that is where what happened. Before I say the beginning of the genesis of all these problems - I call them sticker problems - I will repeat that the minor proposals, but really small amendments, were presented in a perfectly legitimate predictable manner by Mr Vích on 24 October 2022 by me on 7 November 2022. Mr Cogan also, before the second reading of December 13, 2022, three days before that discussion, which took place during the second reading of the 16th. 12. However, not by you, Mr Jakub Michálek, Vice-President, who, as has been repeatedly pointed out here, has jumped to the surprise of some of his coalition colleagues and colleagues, and has come and read a motion for a change to the law in the last two minutes before the end of the second reading, which is not related to the original amendment contained in the Parliaments of the Press no. 312. That we were all surprised and that at first we didn't even understand what was going on, I think it's very logical with regard to the time, and it's been brought to the attention here repeatedly. I even asked for it, and I spoke about it once before in my speech, such an analysis, an opinion. Since the Parliamentary Institute of our Chamber of Deputies, and this must be stressed here, at this point, does not give binding opinions. He only gives an interpretation based on the doctrineal interpretation, from the interpretation we have in the comments, such as the Rules of Procedure, which occurs in the literature, but cannot bind us. Nevertheless, it is a very useful guide for our further procedures. [[10.30 hours]] So I asked him to process a certain analysis for me, and he took it in a way that seems very happy to me, because he did three interpretations: grammatical interpretation, historical interpretation - I warn you, I won't bother you with that anymore, I partially read it to you here last time, and I refer also to the written version - and systematic interpretation. It follows from this interpretation of the grammar when we sum up that it is prescribed in the text of the law, and now I quote that the amendment to the draft law must be tabled or submitted in a detailed debate that it should be given orally or in writing, and if it is made orally, then it needs to be justified directly in a detailed debate. As I say, it is not a binding decision for us, it is only an interpretation, but it already suggests that here, at least from the point of view of the doctrineal and grammatical, it occurs when there is no breach, so let's say an extensive interpretation of the relevant provisions of our Rules of Procedure, namely, Section 94, § 63 para. 4. I will still speak to the next provisions, or at least refer to them in terms of content. So the scope of the reasoning is not laid down in the Rules of Procedure, but we can conclude from the words of the reasoning itself that at least it would be appropriate to briefly explain why, surprisingly in the last two minutes, this proposal is numbered and for what reasons it relates to the original proposal or for what reasons it was attached to the original, unrelated House of the press. It didn't happen. Of course, it must then also be concluded that this interpretation, which is why I am already relying on systematic interpretation, must have some solution. If such a solution is not contained directly in the Rules of Procedure, we must guide it. The Parliamentary Institute also introduces and draws attention to the difference between the general rules contained in Section 63 of the Rules of Procedure and the special rules, or lex specialis, or if you want a special provision that always takes precedence over the general rules and which are therefore contained in Section 93 of the Rules of Procedure. And from this, the Rules of Procedure rely on the legislative process as a whole, relies on the organisation of individual readings to the established consistency, relies on the subsequent organisation of amendments after the end of the second reading, and if the amendment is tabled surprisingly in plenary in a detailed debate at second reading, then it predicts several procedures. We can no longer use some of the procedures, the Institute of Summary of Amendments tabled, because this proposal is not only surprising and unrelated, but it was loaded in the last two minutes, or no more complex amendments or summaries of amendments could be read, could not be read. He can't even use the mandatory time gap between second and third reading. But what he can use and what he's growing up to Parliamentary Institute is an institute of possibility of repeating second reading according to § 95 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure, thereby allowing further amendments to be tabled, responding to any such surprising, surprisingly timely and factually proposed amendment. So, it follows from this that the right to present a surprising amendment is not limited in time, but it is legitimate to use the procedures foreseen by the Rules of Procedure and to respond by returning such press to second reading and allowing it to adopt the corresponding amendments. We all know that this has not happened, and there is no willingness of the majority of Members, and I do not have the illusion that, after my speech, the willingness is outweighed in favour of returning to second reading, so that in this case there is only a way to turn to the press itself, or the sticker, what happened, and I am turning to it right now. When Mr Michálek tabled his amendment on 16 December at the very end of the second reading. Of course, the amendment had to be referred to as an amendment to the Government's bill amending Act 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and movements, as amended, the House's press 312, but right at the outset it must do what it did, that it proposed to change its very name and add words: and other related laws. To propose, and it is the content of the amendment to rename it, so that Article one and Article two of the original House of Press 312 are renamed part one, and of course, and now there is also visual modulation and proof that it is an adhesive, for part one, the newly marked part of the first law, inserted part two and three, which he called: a change in the law on conflicts of interest, which is the second part. Of course, part three - amendment of the Act on the operation of radio and television broadcasting. He added a very brief reasoning which ignores and does not explain a number of things and made the original House press 312 a different House press, at least in part two and three. Of course, this is not the way to proceed, and therefore our constitutional complaint will be the subject of such a procedure, which will undoubtedly, if the Chamber of Deputies comes to the conclusion that it does not mind its majority and approves this proposal at third reading, such a constitutional complaint will be processed. So, if I were to recapitulate and not repeat what was said here from the procedural point of view, I think that the evidence is here in the Houses of the Press itself, namely in Mr Jakub Michálek's amendment, by your means, Madam Vice-President, who in this way changed the original House's press number 312. I could appeal again, and although I have heard, say, an attempt to justify and mitigate the content of the 2006 constitutional finding - it was 2006, but it was not until June 2007 - by Minister Šalomoun, who said that it was a historical interpretation that we were at a different time, but could not argue that he had submitted another finding which would have refuted or changed the settled caselaw of the Constitutional Court. So I will not bother you by reading what I have ticked and what my colleagues and colleagues have already made clear enough, because they have chosen only the essential sentences in their factual remarks, they have said, and thus advocated what we think in opposition, and I am convinced that even the coalition's lawyers, that this is a bit of a threat to the predictability of law. And I say "a little bit" ironically. And, of course, it is contrary to the principles of the rule of law and the democratic legislative process. And no matter how we downplay it, the Constitutional Court finding is pretty clear. [[10.40 hours]] For example, I liked one sentence from the Senate's 12th meeting of the Senate, when the then Vice-President of the Senate, Senator Pithart, when the bill was being discussed and he was right there for what the Constitutional Court then labeled with a clear label, so he said, and now I quote that "what is glued to the original bill is against good morals, not only against the rules of correct banking." It's point 65 of the constitutional finding 77/06. So from this point of view, I have to say, we're not original about anything. I mean, now the opposition that's performing here. That's what the Vice-President of the Senate said. That is true today. It's against the good manners that should rule here in the House. The Constitutional Court then assessed this by saying that, when assessing the constitutionality of the legislative procedure for the adoption of the contested provisions in the present case, it is decisive to assess whether the proposal in question - at the time it was the Doktor's Member - was marked as an amendment and processed by it in a material sense - the amendment - and whether it had left a limited area reserved for amendments. In other words, whether there has been an unacceptable extensence in interpreting what the amendment really is and should be. And in that regard, the Constitutional Court then ruled. So let me make a personal remark. I do not understand the certainty with which some members of the coalition are already prognostic or predicting that the Constitutional Court will not find the contradiction. It would be a turning point judicate. Of course, the Constitutional Court has every right to it. Broken in the sense that there would have been some deviation from the settled caselaw so far. But that is what I would like to read the reasoning that would have succeeded in the Constitutional Court. But, of course, it can't be ruled out. And now we're going to turn to those criticisms that have been heard here many times. Of course, they could not sound systematically, in an orderly manner, in factual terms. And I've also evaluated the time that belongs to me, and that belongs to me by the 11 o'clock, but I want to allow certain procedures here, so not until 11:00. So I won't be systematic either. I apologize in advance. But the initial critical positions - and I stress this, because, after Mr Michálek's visit to these institutions, there is logically some softening of those positions, even as Mr Michálek himself, through your help, Madam Vice-President, has told us, so the institutions have seen that they may not have used appropriate arguments at the time. In view of his arguments, they were so convincing that the views were no longer so critical. But let us take a look at the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior, which, among other things, has taken a very critical, disagreeable position on my three minor amendments relating to the press itself. Thus, it concerned the Government's draft law on association in political parties and political movements, where I really wanted to consider whether such a significant strengthening of the collective element in the management of the Office was to be discussed by the College of the Office before it was approved by the President of the Office if it was appropriate. So it was one small suggestion. The second was that I wanted to - but I won't take your precious time, and ours, by recapitulating here - an extension of the deadline from 14 to 30 days. And most importantly, it was the establishment of a decomp committee of other advisory bodies by the same authority. The Ministry of the Interior has simply, in a nutshell, clearly taken a disagreeable position on this. With something I have... I have said well, for example, as far as the age of the elderly is concerned, if, in these cases, there really are - bizarrely for me - three of the four members of office who are of the same age, I would like to amend my amendment here. And I have no choice but to respect that position in the sense that I will raise my hand for my amendment, but I will simply be outvoted, and in one case rightly. I also think that Mr Vích, through you, Madam Vice-President, has been given a disagreeable opinion, only on his proposal, where he proposes that a time limit be set for the publication of the annual report on the Office's activities, as well as the obligation to submit this information to the Chamber of Deputies. Dissenting position. It is not justified to submit an annual report to the Chamber of Deputies for information only, without the Chamber of Deputies having to discuss it, as is the case, for example, with the reports submitted by the Ombudsman. If such an adjustment should already be explicitly provided for, then the question is why the report should not be submitted to the Senate as well. We can agree, we don't have to. However, this is one of the standards of legislative processes. The Home Office has excellent legislation. I've said it repeatedly, as Minister of Justice, I've always thought that I'd like to bring some of these colleagues into my legislation, even though there are skilled legislation in justice. In any case, I would question this argumentatively, not by process. The only amendment that received a favourable opinion was Mr Josef Cogan's amendment - an amendment to the provisions on effectiveness so that the law becomes effective on the first day of the calendar month following its publication. Well, this is where I was thinking, so be it, but in light of the label, absurd, because there are obligations that cannot be fulfilled in three months or six months. If we accept the sticker, we forget the due diligence processes that last six months, sometimes years. As the owner is to sell his business, I would also like to know from a purely technically organisational point of view. And then I come to the amendment by Mr Jakub Michálek, where I am very surprised to have a neutral position, although the content position of the Ministry of the Interior is by far the most critical of the previous amendments. Because he says, and I'm gonna read it again, I know it's already been quoted here, but I'm gonna be literal now, and I'm gonna quote, "The inclusion of new powers of the Office in the law on association in political parties and political movements is inorganic, because it has nothing to do with its own substance. Point one. Point two. Although the President of the Republic can be classified as public officials and imposed obligations on him in this context, the President of the Republic will not be able to be affected for their violation due to his broad immunity. Point three. Deficiencies are shown in the regulation of administrative punishment. Then the Office itself takes a very detailed view of this, saying that something like this is not possible at all. Finally, for the last but very, very important critical opinion of the Ministry of the Interior: The proposed addition of § 13 para. 8 of the Conflict of Interest Act, according to which the restriction on the handling of data from the registry of notifications is to be limited only for the purpose of detecting potential infringements of public officials' obligations relating only to public officials pursuant to § 2 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)))))))))))))) (v))))))) (v))) (v))) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The Constitutional Court has withdrawn the Constitutional Court's main reasons for finding the Constitutional Court in which the original legislation under which the register of notices was accessible without further acquiescence could be contrary to the purpose of the conflict of interest law, i.e. the so-called non-political public officials. (?) [[10.50 hours]] I know that Mr Michálek here has tried to remove all these critical reservations from his table - allow me, Mr Michálek, by your means, Madam Vice-President... Well, as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, I'm going to set an example -- question my appearance. However, from reading it again, he failed to do so factually. [[Mrs Schiller gives a note to the Member of the War Paper.]] Yes. I can see that time is running unstoppably, and I got back to the time of my lectures, when I needed an hour for students to get to one paragraph of the Penal Code. But here's my MP. And the fact is, I have to speed up. There is even more I have prepared within the originally planned at least one hour performance. I would just recommend that we consider all the summarised factual arguments. I'd like to say one more time, after all. I really think that this passive electoral right will also be the subject of a review of the Constitutional Court's finding, because the real owner, as is already very clear, aptly and in short, has spoken to the President of the Constitutional-Legal Committee, my colleague Radek Vondráček, changes the rules of the game in its course through you, Madam Vice-President. This is not part of the predictability of law, fair political competition or what we consider to be a democratic legislative process and the adoption of laws as such. So there will not only be the procedural, but also the material aspect of the matter under review of the Constitutional Court in the case, and I am convinced that, and we have already provisionally agreed to file a constitutional complaint. Given the way I said the Rules of Procedure predict certain procedures, I am definitely in favour of returning the press to second reading, that is my first proposal. And then here I am, because I am also interpreting the position, as the Vice-President pointed out here in the introduction, rightly pointed out, the ANO Group of Members, so at the end I would like to make a motion for a resolution which might read as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the reading of the so-called sticker, i.e. an amendment materially unrelated to the original bill, is a process of constitutionally non-conformation which has a fundamental negative impact on the quality and legitimacy of legislation." I have it here twice as required by the standard legislative process. I'll give it to you, Madam Vice-President, to keep it at your disposal. With regard to the watch, and I cannot rule out that anyone will still have an interest in speaking here, so five minutes or seven minutes before the end of that reserved period, I will end my speech with an appeal not only to lawyers, colleagues, but to all Members present and present at 11 o'clock to consider whether to return this proposal with regard to the sticker which contains Mr Michálek's amendment, by your means, Madam Vice-President, to the second reading. In the event that this does not happen, I strongly suggest that we vote on a resolution which I am now passing on to you in printed form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u67	I, too, thank you, and I ask that a few of this motion for a resolution be forwarded to the rapporteur. I now have Mr Aleš Juchelka's factual comment, but I would just like to point out to the honourable House that, on the basis of the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, it is stipulated that the vote on the bills and bills submitted as a whole in the case of the Parliamentary press 312, the Government's proposal for a law amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended, will take place on Friday 16 June. 2023 at 11 o'clock. So we have six minutes until 11:00. And please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u68	I can do that. Thank you very much. I just want to... Since he won't make it to my speech because we have a fixed vote, I just wanted to say that 34 years ago, we ended the Communist regime here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u69	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that we all know the 11th hour is coming, but this is not the time yet. Please leave room for the honourable Member to make a point of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u70	And we ended it in 1989. One of those passwords was so we could have free elections. This means that everyone can vote freely and also be elected freely. I think that what we're going to be here today, what we're going to vote on, is in violation. We also had here that we wanted to freely do business, multiply property, that we wanted our ideas and innovations to be taken into account and in some reality. I see in Mr Michálek's person proof that we simply clearly could not cope with our communist past and that it is now coming back to us at this moment. Anyone who is a Democrat can't really vote in favour of this law. Note that only Jakub Michálek defends him. So anyone who raises their hand for this law in this Chamber of Deputies will unfortunately develop our values of democracy, for which our mothers and fathers fought 34 years ago, or ourselves. That's right. It's coming back to us in the form of Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Michálek is registered. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the generations of my parents did not, therefore, fight 100% to allow oligarchs to own media, through which they influence public opinion and in this way influence politics, and so that government members and ministers can take unlimited subsidies, investment incentives. After all, these are hundreds of millions that members of your government, and it wasn't just Mr. Babiš, but it was Mr. Toman, too, to remind ourselves of what you were taking from public budgets at a time when this country had a record deficit. Let's just remember that. That's what happened. And link it to some kind of communism? Please, you're really crying on the wrong grave. We were not the ones who were in the KSČ as your President and other members. So really, please contact your own members through the President, Madam President. I would like to dedicate the last part of my speech to the fact that this assessment of my amendment as an sticker does not really have any real support. We are discussing a law on association in political parties and movements, which introduces the competence and competence of the supervisory authority, and it is long-term talk that this political oversight authority, which is impartial, independent, should also have other agendas in the area of combating corruption, such as the lobbying agenda, such as the conflict of interest agenda and other similar issues. It is therefore perfectly in line with the idea of the present law and its wording, which contains the definition of the office's competence to be supplemented there, in order to include the scope of supervision of the law against conflicts of interest. It's not a sticker. The requirement for a close relationship is met in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping time. And one more minute till 11:00. With a point of fact, Mr Juchelka. And this is the last point in fact, and then the debate will be closed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u74	I can't relate to that. It is indeed an attack on our democratic values as being elected freely, freely to vote, freely to do business. Everything is limited by this law. And anyone who votes for him, like I said, will have our democracy swayed. And that word of democracy is of no value to him, but only a word, as this government coalition has done here several times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u75	Thank you. There's still room for a point of fact, because I still... It has already been eleven o'clock, so I apologise to all other colleagues, but since we have approved the resolution that I have just read a little while ago, I am now ending the debate. Will I ask the appellant and rapporteur if there is an interest in the final words? It's not like that. Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Jiří Mašek filed on 8. 2. 2023, respectively 14. 6. 2023 proposal to repeat second reading. I will perform for my colleagues because we will first decide by voting on this proposal, which means repeating the second reading. I'm sensing an interest in check-out. I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We will wait until the number of entries is settled, and we will vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 18, 164 Members and Members voted in favour of 78, against 85. The motion was not accepted. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. At its 15th meeting on 19 January 2023, the Supervisory Committee adopted Resolution No 76, House Press 312/4, which recommended the Chamber of Deputies to vote on individual amendments in the following order: Firstly, proposals for legislative technical amendments if they were tabled in the debate at third reading. Secondly, on the various amendments, which were four in total, in that order - the proposal by A Member of the Válková, the proposal by Mr Vích B, the proposal by Mr Cogan C and the proposal by Mr Michálek D. Thirdly, on the draft law as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted. Since Mr Marek Výborný's proposal for legislative technical regulation has been tabled, we will first vote on legislative technical regulation. The legislative technical regulation is that Mr Marek, Mr Výborný, has proposed that this law should take effect on 1 January. 1. 2024. It therefore becomes an unvoting proposal under the letter C of Mr Cogan, so that the effectiveness of the amendment is adopted on the first day of the month following its publication. We will therefore first vote on legislative technical regulation, and this is the proposal by Mr Excellent, that this law should take effect on 1 January. 1. 2024.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u77	Thank you. Now, I'd like to propose a procedure. Yes, please, Mrs. Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u78	Madam President, the rapporteur forgot that I also proposed a change in the effectiveness of the law on Wednesday, it was at 1. 1. 2026. Please check, because this is not included in the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u79	I therefore ask the rapporteur whether he will adjust the procedure or whether we will vote on the proposal to add this vote to the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u80	Yes, so I will complete the voting procedure in the sense that we will first vote on the proposal for a legislative technical regulation by Mr Marek Výborný, namely that this law becomes effective on 1 January. 1. 2024, and subsequently on Mrs Ožanová's proposal for this law to take effect on 1. 1. 2026.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u81	Thank you. Mr Benda is now applying for the draft procedure and I have subsequently seen Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u82	As Mrs Ožanová's proposal was made later, I would take it as a counter-proposal, and then I would recommend that it be voted on as the first. If it is adopted, the Excellent Member's proposal shall be excluded if it is not adopted, the Excellent Member's proposal shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u83	Again, I ask the rapporteur whether he will adjust his proposal for a procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u84	Yes, I'll adjust my draft procedure. So first there will be a vote on the counter-proposal in the framework of legislative technical amendments, namely the counterproposal or the proposal by Mrs Ožanová to bring this law into force on 1 January. 1. 2026.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u85	Okay, thank you. As there have been adjustments that Members have not been able to get to know in advance, I will therefore have this procedure voted out. I said, who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Initiating vote. Who's against it? In vote number 19, 165 Members and Members signed up, for 165, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask the rapporteur to conduct us according to an approved procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u86	So now we are going to vote on the proposal by A Member of the Válková. These are minor amendments to Articles 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u87	First of all, I think we should vote on Mrs Ožanová's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u88	So, I'm sorry. We will therefore now vote on the proposal for legislative technical amendments, and this is the proposal of Mrs Ožanová. I ask you to initiate a vote on him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u89	I suppose the committee didn't accept the opinion on this. Do I ask the appellant's opinion? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 20, 165 Members and Members voted in favour of 79, against 86. The motion was not accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u90	We will therefore now vote on the proposal for a legislative technical regulation, and this is Mr Marek Výborný's proposal for this law to take effect on 1 January. 1. 2024. [[President: Opinion?]] The Committee has not discussed this opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u91	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 21, 165 Members and Members voted in favour of 88, against 77. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u92	If this proposal has been adopted, it becomes unvoting...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u93	I'm sorry, there's an interest in controlling the vote. Please hold for a moment, rapporteur. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Please vote on Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the first time that's happened to me, but I voted against it, and I have a say in high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u95	Yes, I'm registering an objection that will be decided by the House. We will therefore now vote on the objection to the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 22, 165 Members and Members signed up, for 164, against no one. The motion was accepted. And I am asking the rapporteur to repeat the last vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u96	So we will vote on the proposal for a legislative technical regulation, namely the amendment by Mr... or the legislative technical regulation by Mr Marek Výborný, namely that this law takes effect on 1. 1. 2024.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u97	Please give the applicant's opinion one more time. [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 165 Members of Parliament, in favour of 87, against 78. The motion was accepted. Once again, there is an interest in controlling the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u98	[[Resurrection in the O.R.]] It happens to me specially. For the first time at this time. I'm on high school yes, I wanted to vote against it. I question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u99	I'm gonna have to ask you once again, Mr. Ambassador, because you have to read it really correctly. I voted in favour, on drugs - and so on. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u100	I voted in favour. I'm against high school. No - I voted against, I've got a pro on the high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u101	Thank you and we will again decide on this objection by voting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 165 Members and Members signed in for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. So once again, rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u102	So we will vote on the fact that a legislative technical proposal has been tabled to amend Mr Marek the Výborný. This Act shall take effect on 1. 1. 2024. And the committee has not discussed this technical and legislative regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u103	The plaintiff's position? [[I'm not gonna change my mind. Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 165 Members of Parliament signed up, for 86, against 79. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u104	We will now vote on the amendment under A, Mrs Válková. These are minor changes in Article one and two. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u105	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 165 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 86. The motion was not accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u106	We will now vote on the amendment under point B of Mr Vích. Presentation of the Annual Report of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and the Movement by 31. 3. of the relevant calendar year. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u107	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote, I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 165 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 86. The motion was not accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u108	Given that the draft legislative technical regulation of Mr Marek Výborný has been approved, with effect from 1 January 2016. 1. 2024, the amendment to Mr Cogan's letter C made it impossible for the effectiveness of the amendment to be adopted on the first day of the month following its publication. Therefore, we will continue with the amendment under the letter D by Mr Michálek. This is a comprehensive amendment on supervision and conflict of interest. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u109	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 164 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 83, versus 80. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u110	As we have exhausted all the amendments and the proposal for legislative technical amendments, I ask you, Madam President, to vote now on the law as a whole, as amended by the legislative technical amendments and the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u111	Thank you. All proposals have therefore been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll. - ' Here's to the vote. I will reload the resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u112	So before we re-read the resolution, I would like to question the vote this time. I had no on the reading device, I voted yes. Please enter this amendment in the minutes. [[- Yes, but...]] I do not question the vote, please mention this change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u113	I understand, but you're not quoting it the way it's supposed to be. I voted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u114	Let's do it again. I voted in favour of voting on the voting device. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u115	Thank you. So I will reload the resolution that we will be voting on because all the amendments have already been voted on. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 312, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 165 Members of Parliament have signed up. For 86, against 65. The bill has been passed, and I am stating that consent has been given to the bill. The accompanying resolution, read by Mrs Válková, is now being prepared. Please, the rapporteur... Okay, please vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u116	Thank you. I'll take the 28th vote. I voted in favour, and I got held up. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u117	Thank you. So please, rapporteur, we can take a accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u118	So I will read the accompanying resolution tabled by Mrs Válková. Motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the reading of the so-called sticker, an amendment not materially related to the original bill, is a constitutionally non-conformation procedure which has a fundamental negative impact on the quality and legitimacy of the legislation." I ask you, Madam President, to vote on this accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u119	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 164 Members and Members signed in for 79, versus 83. The motion was not accepted. [[11.20 hours]] I therefore conclude the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I remind you that the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin in five minutes. And with the priority right of President Schillerová and subsequently President Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Let me sum up what just happened here. [[Louder. Big noise in the hall.]] You have most likely approved an unconstitutional amendment, which is also a crystalline sticker. You couldn't have done it any worse! I just have to warn you that next time President Michálek will want to ban politics from you. The YES movement will certainly turn to the Constitutional Court if it passes the law and other stages of the legislative process. However, given the atmosphere you've created here, and given that we need to discuss how to proceed on this matter, I'm taking a two-hour break from the ANO club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Fiala has yet to report with priority rights before I call for a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u122	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, let me also summarize the feelings or positions of the SPD movement after this law. [[Big noise in the hall.]] We did not vote in favour of Mr Michálek's amendment to the pirát because, according to the Constitutional Court, we believe that this is a violation of the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court said, that Parliament violated the constitution in past cases, when it voted on stickers that clearly did not relate to the law. We, as the SPD, will not vote for such stickers, especially when it comes to the stickers that the Pirates put into these laws. And I, too, request time for a two-hour meeting of the SPD members' club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u123	I dare ask all the presidents of the MPs to come to me. Because there's a new meeting announced, so we can agree on a procedure. Now the President is Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u124	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, it is not possible to take a break at this moment, at this point in the session. If the agenda of the meeting has been exhausted and it has been exhausted by the vote on the bill, it is not possible to request a break because there is no point. You've been given a chance to get off on some of the customs, but it's not possible to take a break now. We need to close this meeting, it's closed, it's exhausted, and in five minutes, as properly convened, another emergency meeting is called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u125	Yes. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u126	I respect that. I didn't notice that the Vice-President had already finished, so I'm gonna marry her in five minutes when the meeting starts. In any case, today we will not want to act in the light of the situation that has happened here, given how you trample on democratic rights and how you act in an unconstitutional manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-001-001.u127	Thank you. So I'm canceling my request that all the MPs meet here at my place, because I think everything has already been said on the microphone. And in five minutes, the next meeting will begin. Thank you.
