ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u1	8. Government proposal for the Act on Preventive Restructuring / House printing 371/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Minister Martin Kupka will state the bill. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law on preventive restructuring in response to the adopted EU directive on restructuring and insolvency. At the same time, it prepared a proposal for a minimalist amendment to eleven legislation, which is factually related to the draft preventive restructuring law. First of all, it is the amendment of the insolvency law, the law on insolvency administrators, the law on judicial fees, the notarial order, the law on courts and judges or the law on value added tax. The purpose of the law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but, fellow Members and colleagues, and this time especially in the left side of the hall, I ask for your silence to be heard. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u4	The purpose of the Preventive Restructuring Act is to make an effective instrument available to commercial corporations to address temporary financial difficulties and to avert the risk of imminent bankruptcy. The purpose of the accompanying amendment is only to adapt selected legislation in the field of civil law procedural and tax law to the institute of preventive restructuring. In particular, it is a minimalist functional link between restructuring and insolvency proceedings, ensuring the proper functioning of the profession of restructuring administrators, the method of determining a legal judge in restructuring cases or the specific tax context of restructuring plans. The Institute of Preventive Restructuring is located at the interface of the undertaking, corporate and insolvency law. The whole process is based on the preparation of the so-called restructuring plan, which envisages the adoption of effective recovery measures in order to restore the normal functioning of the entrepreneur's business plant. The plan is drawn up by an entrepreneur on the basis of the results of negotiations with his key creditors, from whom he requests support and the granting of various concessions. These creditors, the so-called parties concerned, then vote on its acceptance. During the negotiation and preparation of the restructuring plan, an entrepreneur can use limited time protection from creditors - the Institute of Moratorium. This will protect entrepreneurs from executions, the realisation of a lien by creditors or the cessation of supplies of the necessary raw materials. The bill also contains a number of safeguards against abuse and the rules for the protection of creditors. A special expert group consisting of leading Czech experts on corporate and insolvency law, economy and accounting has been created for the purpose of preparing a bill that has been implemented for more than two years. It is therefore a draft law which also has significant professional support in this regard. Since this proposal was also discussed at first reading in a merged general debate with the bill of insolvency and other related regulations, in this case I will also allow myself to apply for the same process with the fact that in this case the introductory word also applies to both standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u5	Yes, Minister, I have your opinion on the merger of two points, namely the Houses of Press 371 and 372. I would like to ask whether we will still have the rapporteur Pavel Staněk present, who, in that case, I suppose, will do his news law for both prints, then I would interrupt it and open a debate for both. Please, rapporteur. Here I am merely stating that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a committee of guarantee, and the press was directed to the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 371/1 to 4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Pavel Staněk, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. It is exactly as it was suggested here, the debate makes sense as a merged one, so I will actually propose the same as the Minister proposed in his intelligence report. Before the first reading, I took the liberty of taking a rather wide excursion, so I will be considerably shorter in this second reporting report, but I will refer, in particular, to the words of the Minister, who presented the whole legislation quite comprehensively, very structured and intelligible for us, for Members, but also, of course, for the recipients of the legislation. [[11.30 hours]] All I'm going to say is that the purpose of this news is to reveal the current financial difficulties of entrepreneurs in time and start a recovery process. Preventively, restructuring seeks to prevent the businessman's decline, which is, of course, very desirable in order to prevent the liquidation and insolvency itself. In the UK, the Netherlands and Germany, entrepreneurs already have this possibility and we know from practice that foreign creditors or parent companies are asking for similar solutions in our country. Preventive restructuring belongs to insolvency instruments from the point of view of law. In fact, however, it is on the verge of prevention and insolvency. It is intended to help entrepreneurs with temporary financial difficulties and allows them to continue to lead their society and save it from imminent bankruptcy. The aim of the process is therefore to revitalize a viable enterprise and thus to avert possible bankruptcy. In addition to maintaining business and jobs, the result should be a better perspective for creditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u7	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Libor Turek, to inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Economic Committee discussed the two House Presses at its meeting and adopted the following resolution to the House Press 371, which I would like to read: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of the Head of Department of Justice Michal Franěk, reports by Mr Libor Turek and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 371 as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-003-008.u9	Thank you. I will therefore now put to the vote that we will hold a merged general debate in the Houses of the thousands of 371 and 372. I'm gonna sing. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal that we have a merged debate on these two points? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 96, 144 Members and Members registered, for proposal 104, against no one. I note that we have agreed with the proposal and will have a merged general debate on these two points. For this reason, I interrupt the House press 371. I'm opening up.
