ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-054-03-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Third reading We continued on this point on 8 March, and the debate was interrupted again. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments is set out in the Press Chambers 263/3, which was delivered on 17 January 2023, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 263/4. I ask that the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa take the position at the rapporteur's table, which he has already done, as well as the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, who will be Mr Ondřej Babka for the pardoned Mr Kolovratník. We will therefore continue with the interrupted debate to which Members of Parliament have come forward in order. However, I have the priority right of President Schillerová, who should be the first to speak. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-054-03-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I am very unpleasantly surprised at how boundless, how boundless the desire for a five-calice for power is. You already have a government today, you control both chambers of Parliament - the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Yesterday, the President of the Republic was inaugurated, who was also elected with your support. But I would like to add that I firmly believe that, despite the above, the President will soon prove that he will not nod to any of your proposals. I want to believe that, and I'm sure he'll have a chance to prove it. It is said that it is dangerous for democracy when the pendulum of power is too far off on one side, and I agree with that. Clearly, the concentration of power you already have is not enough for you. You want to rip that pendulum out so it can never come back. Last week and your entire process during the meeting, be proof of that. And in this situation, we are now dealing with other institutions that you want to gain under your control, namely the public service media. It is even such a priority for you that you have once again put aside the problems of citizens and entrepreneurs. You are not worried about high inflation, lack of medicines, lack of high school vacancies, expensive food, or perhaps uncertainty in the labour market in relation to the unclear prospects of the car industry. It's all air for you. And that is why we also need to convene an extraordinary meeting for you on these issues, because otherwise the House does not deal with them at all. All of this is indifferent to you, because your priorities are clearly different. On the one hand, I understand your efforts. The image of your government in society is not good at all. Most research shows that the trust of citizens in your government is really not great. In the current survey of Morning Consult, 67 percent of the country's population does not trust the Prime Minister today. This is the second worst result in all measured countries. Only the Prime Minister of South Korea did špatně. According to STEM's research at the end of last year, the premier's work is evaluated by a sign of five, i.e. the worst possible, 60 percent of the population. What is more, according to the same research, only 18 percent believe that the future will be better. Above all, and now, honourable pro-government Members, listen carefully, 85 percent of the people have been assessing the past year negatively under your rule. They do not believe that last year has brought success in the development of the entire society. The same number of people don't even think that last year would bring more justice. I understand that you are not listening well, and I would like to point out that if you think that these feelings will change if you control the public service media, you are very, very wrong. Please take advice from more experienced people. I know some of you feel like you know best. But believe me, the path of absolute rolling is not the best. Even because no one is ever in power forever. Sooner or later, someone else will come to power. Are you sure that, even after that, this will have to be a good time for you to change the law? Do you really want the public service media to play by who's in power? Do you really feel that you are acting in this law for the sake of these media? Have you thought about the situation you're putting journalists in, editors, how much trouble you're putting them in? Do you really want to give them a definitive label on pro-government media? And that's not just my assumption. I'm talking to them, too. Even the media does not like this initiative. I know that you are most certainly turning back on this objection, that, of course, you do not want to do so, that you did not even think of such considerations. But do you really think anyone will believe you? Especially in a situation where none of you have been able to say convincingly so far, what is this change for? Will a continuous decline in confidence in the public service media be resolved, as shown by the AMI Digital Index? Or will this matter solve the issue of funding public media? You're not dealing with any of this. The only thing you're pushing now is a change of choice for the ČT and Czech Radio Council. While what we want, and I think it is completely legitimate, or perhaps it should be an absolute matter of course, do not change the terms of the selection of the new CEO of Czech Television at a time when the selection process has already started. It's a completely scandalous procedure! And I dare say, with a different distribution of forces, the potential should be met by a very large square. During the last discussion of this point here in the House, it has been said many times that if you want to distract those concerns, you can do so easily. There's nothing easier. All you have to do is shift the law's effectiveness to the term of the CEO's election. The challenge has fallen several times, but no response from you yet. And so I have to ask, why are you really not concerned about controlling this choice? Why is it such a problem to postpone the effectiveness of the law? Could one of you give me a clear and simple answer to this question? But I'm really clear. No excuses and no freaks. Why is this not possible? [[13.10 hours]] I know I won't get an answer to that question. I haven't gotten it yet, or not really. And that's the difference. You like to call yourself Democrats, and when you have to fill this attribute or value, as you like to say, you don't want to do it. Suddenly, completely democratically, it is you who will decide what is democratic and what is not, what is right and what is not? You know, everyone here, you know that as a opposition, we complain about the objectivity of some of the Czech TV shows. Yes, we often feel or sometimes feel that the public service media are not reaching out to us as a government coalition. You, too, feel that we are being criticized unjustly, that they do not give us as much space as we would like. But that's not bad. I can imagine that some ministers and some government MPs have a similar feeling. But let's just say the truth that you don't understand. That's good. At the end of the day, it's probably exactly the way it's supposed to be. That's why we have public media. And the point is, we wouldn't dream of proposing a change in the law that should change that. We've never done this before. On the contrary, we were proud of each other in a situation where the opposition at the time chose the people she wanted to take these advices. And you know why? Because that's just how it's supposed to be in a democratic society. Democracy is not about winning one opinion. Democracy is about two or more different opinions standing next to each other, and they all have the same weight. Democracy is not that it is only one - yours - opinion current, and all who do not share it must be trampled into the ground and supported by the media. By the way, my grandmother always told me which one raised me, one of those proverbs that I've been trying to behave my whole life. It always sounded like a greeting to everyone when you go upstairs. You might need them to say hello when you go downstairs. I think you should have this old wisdom, and we should all remember this old wisdom. I do not believe that you personally wish that when another government comes to you, it would treat you with the same disdain as some of you do against the current opposition. The strange thing is that it was your government that committed itself to supporting the public service media and seeking their stability in the programming declaration. This step, like many others, is going in the reverse direction. And I have to say, I believe in the power of public media. I've always communicated with journalists, I've always treated them fairly and openly. And I believe that even if you want to wrap them in this way, they'll be against maintaining their independence. And I would also like to challenge you, if our reasoning is wrong, wait for the adoption of this law. Because if this isn't about the CEO's choice, there's no rush. Finally, I will return to what I said at the outset. Dear government, dear five-wheelers, please solve the problems facing you, and as a result of which people and companies are in really great trouble. Solve these things instead of trying to strengthen power and influence. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] And if I still can? [[- Yes, please.]] Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your kindness. Thank you for listening to me. And since I think I've said a lot of important things to think about and consider their consequences, I'm taking a break from the ANO club meeting within 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-10-ps2021-054-03-001-001.u3	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna ask if there's an agreement between the club presidents? Because this de facto concludes today's meeting day. Is there a deal? [[Attacking from different sides.]] Okay. Okay. You told the club presidents. That's great. I note that, at the request of President Schillerová, who is taking a break, I am declaring a break within 14 hours, which will actually result in the conclusion of today's meeting day. Thank you and have a nice weekend.
