ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 71st session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I declare that these Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend today's meeting. I have a message here, Vice-President Havlíček votes with a replacement card number 15. And now I'm going to read the apologies. He apologizes to Bartošek Jan full meeting day for working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav whole meeting day for health reasons, Berki Jan whole meeting day - personal reasons, Bernard Josef whole meeting day - working reasons, Carbol Jiří whole meeting day personal reasons, Cogan Josef whole meeting day - personal reasons, Dostálová Klára whole meeting day - family reasons. Mr Teleky will vote with replacement card number 23. And now we will continue to apologize. Lenka Dražilová for the whole Koten - health Helena, Dufek Aleš for the whole day - family David, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole day - working days, Faltýnek Jaroslav for the Šimek day - family Bohuslav, Vrána Petr for the whole day - personal Ladislav, Fischerová Romana for the Pokorná day - family Jermanová, Foldyna Jaroslava for the whole Renata - personal Karel, Fridrich Stanislav for the whole day - foreign travel, Gazdík Petr for the Vaňková Pavla - personal Svoboda - personal reasons, Horák Jiří from 10 to 11 hours - kolář reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej for the Potůčková David - Lucie days, Hofmann Jan for the whole Nacher Patrik - personal Jan, Janulík Miloslav for the whole Zlínský - Vladimír days - working Kott, Kobza Jiří from 10 to 11 hours - kolovratník days The members of the government apologize for Fiala Petr until 11.15 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel within 11 hours - working reasons, Černochová Jana the whole day - working reasons, Dvořák Martin the whole day - personal reasons, Hladík Petr the whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole day - working reasons, Rakušan Vít the whole day - foreign trip, Šalomoun Michal, the whole day - family reasons, Válek Vlastimil the whole day - personal reasons, Výborný Marek the whole day of the meeting for working reasons is apologized. And before we continue to discuss paragraph 3, I have here with the priority right registered by President Jan Jakob, who withdraws his application. And now we will continue to discuss paragraph 3, House press 458, pension insurance, third reading, which is a bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll. Excuse me? Are you reporting with priority rights? Yes? You are registered, Mr. Chairman Babish, to the priority point only as a third. Do you report before the priority point? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u2	Hello, fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen. We're already discussing pensions for our pensioners today. It is overall simple, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL suggests that our pensioners receive less money and that they work longer. And it's all about money. This government, when it started, immediately attacked retired people, doesn't like retired people. She took away the fare discount we were promoting, a ridiculous amount. And she continued to rape the law. We all remember. And it is a great pity that the President has not taken advantage of the opportunity to help our pensioners, who, of course, deserve it. The minister is still showing us some charts that suit him. Why doesn't he show us some graph of pensions versus GDP? It shows us the chart of pensions versus the average wage. And it's interesting that there's a five-wheeler in the program, but it's basically not controlled. We still hear all kinds of nonsense in the media space, and when I go on television, the host doesn't forget to quote a statement from the past taken out of context. It's interesting that the media never ask the five-calice, and they don't quote their comments at some point in time. We have an expert in media space who was head of the pension committee, who, of course, only went there to make herself visible. None of this fell out, because if the retirement committee came up with the idea of spending, then she couldn't make a living. And that's what we've had since the revolution, and that's obviously not a retirement reform. And no pension reform in this country ever arose or arose. [[9.10 hours]] The fact that I have ever said that it would be relatively simple, that a good employer by wanting to keep his employees will pay them a third on those pensions and they will also have to save a little and a third will stand, yes, that is purely a theory that I once expressed and that cannot be achieved. No way. In the present system of proportional representation governance, it is not possible. Well, our seniors are unlucky because the ODS doesn't like them historically. In 2010 she gave them zero and in 2014 we inherited 45 crowns. Well, now this proposal that's going to be discussed here today is about how to take a pensioner's money. I've read some very interesting comments, and I'm going to read you one here, because the five-calice proposal to give the elderly 400 crowns next year is really ridiculous. I mean, this government never wanted to give the elderly money, and they had to, under the inherited laws, and they changed the law, so I'm so curious if the Constitutional Court will confirm that part of the new totalitarianism that decides everything here and ignores all the other votes. So what does the comment say? Four hundred crowns or two kilos of butter at today's prices, roughly as much as the state intends to add to the pensioners from January for their lifelong work, paying taxes and raising children, taxpayers. The readers were able to deprive themselves of the antisocial punishment of their parents or grandparents a few hours earlier, readers of Rights, before the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs called a press conference, when he satisfiedly announced the alms, he did not forget to mention data that we had repeatedly refuted. We will not make Minister Jurečka happy, and we will continue to discuss misleading arguments. We spend less on pensions relative to GDP than the EU average. Dear pensioners, Dear Government, less than the EU average. And our government had priority, senior citizens were our priority. And we did what we promised. You don't even have a program yet, so no one even knows what you want. So according to Eurostat, it is only 9.3 % in the Czech Republic and the average of the European Union is 13.6%, less than neighbors. We mít Rakousko - 15.4%, not collapsing. The debt of the Czech Republic relative to GDP according to the Ministry of Finance is 43 percent, the EU average is 84 percent. So Austria gives pensioners 15.4% of GDP, it is multiplied by debt, I think more than a hundred percent than the Czech Republic, and the figures are clear. In terms of GDP, we give little to the elderly. We need to know the data so that we don't fall into the false dilemma of the five-wheeler, that saving ourselves has to be done, and the only seniors have gotten enough to cope with inflation. In fact, everything is a matter of priorities, the editor here writes. For example, we will take an expense for the planned purchase of F-35 fighters from the US for roughly 120 billion. That won't cost for another 10 years, but Jurečka is already terrified that without cutting off the fictitious pension account deficit will be 350 billion in some 30 years. Well, I'm surprised, and I don't know how Mr. Jurečka knows it's going to be 350 billion in 30 years, that's - I don't think anyone knows, no psychic. Well, how much would it be lower without a receipt for a hypermodern plane when we start paying for it? The government does not even consider a more economical variant of fighters to be budgetaryly responsible. The five-calice volunteered to spend tens of billions on Ukraine and feed Ukrainian refugees in our country. I quote again, if someone yells again, it is the so far independent journalist: To feed Ukrainian refugees in our country even after more than a year, it is the legitimate right of the government elected in the elections. There is no less legitimate debate as to whether, under such circumstances, a moral imperative is actually in charge of ordaining cuts to, for example, pensioners or twisting in determining who to admit to a higher parent. But the government doesn't have the balls - it writes here, it's official - to admit it like that. As far as seniors are concerned, this optic works with a warped mirror. The government boasts how the pension grew the most behind it, but at the same time it only complied with the legal obligation and very much did not like it. Wait, now I've lost it... But at the same time, she only complied with the legal obligation, and I do not like - I add - in extraordinary valorisation. Well, she took a ridiculous CZK 7,000 to every pensioner this year, and of course next year, too. But at the nearest opportunity, she dubiously narrowed them down. The case lies, inter alia, with the argument of breaching legitimate expectations in the Constitutional Court. Yes. As regards the regular January valorization, announced CZK 400, or two kilos of butter, all seniors are to receive scissors from high- and low-income pensioners. Valuableness - question mark - nothing. Why did the rulers swerve so fiercely this year when real wages plummeted due to incredible inflation and continue to fail, and pensions are valorized in vain? For many people, the reward for a productive age will be further requests from Jurečkův's social services for a housing allowance. Because that's one comment. Then I have one - the other - from other newspapers: Marian Jurečka's presentation of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs did not bring anything unexpected. This week, it will probably pass through the House at third reading - adjustment of early retirement, retirement, and reduction of valorisation. Well, I hope it doesn't pass, because the proposal is immoral and we are fundamentally against it. The Minister spoke about the sustainability of the system and therefore about the necessary cuts. At the same time, however, he flamingly claimed that no one would be cut. They say the opposition is lying, that's us. However, he avoided the fact that the new pensions would be compared less than if the adjustment had not been paid, hiding behind a funny claim that no one's pensions would fall. Well, to drop when we already have such high inflation. The Minister simply does not have the courage to say it out loud - nice pensioners, you will receive less money because the state does not - and I think it does - and it does not work out for us. Well, it's not working out for them because they want everyone to save money but them. If we look at Mr. Bartoš's trip tonight, I don't know where it was, I don't know why the Minister of Regional Development is going to Japan, South Korea, he had a photographer there for a hundred grand, so we can see how they're saving. So - and there were other articles about how to fly everywhere and how to choose the companies. I don't know why they don't buy it directly. So the state can do it. That's a lie. If that state were to be driven by someone who had the power to run it. Much more interesting, however, is what Minister Jurečka did not pay much attention to. For example, and surprisingly - considering that KDU's face is a conservative party, he has not explained why the merit at the expense of pension adjustment should be suppressed even more significantly in the future. Well, all I have to say is that the minister is the first minister to fight the elderly, all the ministers of labor and social affairs fought for the retired, mostly the finance minister, and it's unbelievable. So - certainly it's a political decision, the journalist here writes - and no one pays their pension, but in order for a conservative party to seek de facto equal income in progressive contributions, it is at least up to the considered also in combination with the fact that the third pillar, i.e. the individual savings of at least those who have it, is not planned by the government. The third and not insignificant fact is that the government does not count on the opposition. The minister promises some kind of consultation over the holidays, but that's just so formal. But in September, he wants the reform done, and there is no reform, so that Parliament can approve it after the New Year, and everything can apply from 2025. [[9.20 hours]] There's no time for debate. I don't think there's even an interest in debate. Those so-called experts who talk about it, I'd leave without comment. So we are in a much worse situation than in Nečasův' government, the so-called reform, which now a hundred eight-year-old majority will not seek to consult with the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u3	I apologize, Mr President, for interrupting. I ask my colleagues in the right side of the hall to move their calls to the lobby. Gentlemen on the right, please lower your voice. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u4	Probably sweep or radically redo the next House majority, perhaps even with KDU participation. After all, Mr. Jurečka managed to promote the EET in one government and disrupt another. But pensioners are the hostages of politicians, and they behave not wisely but in a utilitarian manner. I was talking about it this week, that I was actually surprised that the longest in government is KDU-ČSL, 18 years, 6565 days. Well, it doesn't work that way for them. Of course, the major damage was done by ODS, 12.7 years. So let's know where we are. Our seniors write to us and have various problems, and above all, I'm in good health. And the fact that we have the worst Minister of Health since the revolution, we all know that. It says here, seniors, they can't take X-rays because you're missing what they're taking, so some of the X-rays are shut down, closed because they're just not radiologists. And that is precisely the profession of the Minister, so maybe he would be more useful there than in a government where health care really doesn't help at all. Our pensioners have other problems, some still have to take care of their children, who are unfortunately ill. And I want to tell you something about medical cannabis, and those who follow me on the networks know that I'm involved here. We were in Israel, we were doing a seminar on the use of medical cannabis - it is very important and it helps people. I'm sure you know Mr. Majzlík's case, which he wrote to me back in 2017, and that he is simply unable to pay CZK 500,000 a year for his daughter, for the medical cannabis... Then I accepted him at the Office of the Government, and eventually the insurance company understood and helped. I just got a Majzlík from Mr. Mizlík. Mr Babiš, I would like to inform you about where this government and the authorities connected to it have worked in the field of medical cannabis, which is certainly a big topic for the pirát, where you are for the people of this country who need it for their treatment so much. For more than three months now, this drug has been a complete mess. The company Elkoplast Slušovice stopped supplying medicinal cannabis to pharmacies completely, I myself spoke with the company's executive engineer Tomáš Krejča and he told me that under the conditions currently prevailing in this area, the cultivation of medicinal cannabis and its delivery to pharmacies are completely loss-making. The Canadian company Aurora Cannabis Incorporatement, which has its headquarters in Edmonton, and which has grown for the European market of therapeutic cannabis in Denmark, has withdrawn everything back to Canada. At present, it also does not supply anything to pharmacies. Mr. Tomáš Kubálek told me that although he was promised a small delivery, it would not be until sometime next month and it is not certain. So the situation has been specific for us in recent months - in May I telephoned pharmacies throughout the Czech Republic, the minister recommended this when there was no cure for you all to make phone calls to get the necessary amount of medical cannabis for my daughter Martina. In the end I succeeded in Pilsen, where in the pharmacy on the stairs of the Faculty Hospital Pilsen, and this is a very good hospital, they still had some supplies. In June, the situation repeated itself. This time, they had something else at the pharmacy at St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno. So once again, I'm in a situation where I have a recipe, but I'm not getting anything for my daughter in pharmacies, so I'm going to have to address illegal growers again and buy cannabis from them for Martina for a very large amount of money. I'll talk about the gray economy in a minute. Is this normal? Mr. Majzlík is asking. Once again, I will risk 15 years in prison just for having to get the medicine that it needs for my daughter in any way, but which the competent authorities of this state, including the Ministry of Health, cannot provide for it because of their chaotic, irresponsible and completely unprofessional conduct? The story of Mr. Majzlík is like that when he dealt with it in 2017 and wrote it to the DEA chief, so he wrote that he would be arrested if he was illegally growing cannabis. But you who have children know well that we will do everything for the children. Everything. And Mr. Majzlík did it so that we finally pushed through it together, and I remember very well how Mr. Bartoš, Mr. Michálek and Mr. Vymazal, he is an expert on the Pirates of cannabis, and other members of this strange society under the label Pirates in their pre-election campaigns promised what they would do for the legalization and availability of cannabis, and all this healing, will do. They didn't do anything. On the contrary, at the time of their participation in the government, everything only deteriorated. From my position I can only say this, this government is made up of ruthless villains, as Mr Majzlík says, who are not completely concerned with the people of this country, but only about their profits and their sense of power. Well, we know that, Mr. Majzlík. Mr Babiš, it is clear to me that in the current situation you cannot do much in the position of opposition policy, but I would still ask you to draw attention to this situation in your speech in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, and to intercede with this problem the appalling imitation of the Minister of Health, as Mr Válek is. [[Laughter and applause from the left side of the hall.]] With respect to you and your work for the people of this country. So I'm hoping our shadow minister Farhan will write an interview and ask questions. Last time, I was talking about the Prime Minister not knowing what's going on between people, so here I have the status of director of the Agrofert Foundation, so Mr. Jurečka knows what's going on. The Agrofert Foundation distributes more than 100 million crowns a year to people, more than 700 million since the foundation. So the director writes: "What are the problems that people are most often facing on the foundation now?" I guess I wasn't surprised to hear the answer: "These are definitely high energy payments, not only in single homes, as we were used to in past periods, but more and more often in families with children, where the wife is on parental leave and the husband is working. Such families used to get along with money, even managed to save a little. But that was before energy prices, food prices, and everything increased rapidly. These families must now consider whether they will pay rent and energy or buy basic things for children." Yes, you can hear me. "In addition, a small part of them are facing an increase in rent from landlords, which in the extreme case leads to a loss of housing. Adding to this a delay in the payment of the housing allowance, which may be several months later, the destruction is complete. So I keep thinking about what the Prime Minister means when he says the government won't let anyone down. In my opinion, the loss of housing or just in quotation marks is disconnected from the supply of electricity for a family with small children. And I repeat that I am talking about families where my father works and my mother is on parental leave, or exactly the kind of family that every rational state should support, but probably has different standards than Mr. Fiala." So much for what's happening, what people say, what problems they have. Well, of course, it's about the government still saying he doesn't have any money. Well, of course he has an army, he has a Ukraine, he can't afford our people. Then we read the headlines here. "Clerics fly like wonders, sometimes more expensive than the president." [[9.30 hours]] Bartošův's million-dollar trip to East Asia, $100,000 only cost a photographer. I don't understand why the Minister of Regional Development doesn't deal with drawing subsidies, he says he's gonna build apartments, now he says they're gonna rent. Here's another article, and it's a survey Because of rising energy prices, they limit their needs and well secured households. The continuing price increase accompanied by uncertainty in other areas is reflected in the concerns that the citizens of the Czech Republic have from falling into poverty or reducing the standard of living. Please note that in 2002 (?) within the EU's ranking, we were doing our best thanks to our government. In May 2023, according to STEM's research, 58 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic feared poverty or an unbearable reduction in standard of living. The level of fear of poverty or a disproportionate reduction in standard of living is largely dependent on the household income situation. The harder they are secured by households, the more frequent their fears of poverty. While well secured persons fear a reduction in the standard of living in 25 percent of cases, everyone, Martin Buchtík, director of STEM, expressed this concern in de facto between poorly secured and poor people. STEM's research further shows that, even in May 2023, high electricity prices - yes, we still have, Prime Minister, high electricity, gas and fuel prices - significantly save and reduce needs, 78 percent of the population of the Czech Republic must be reduced because we have some of the most expensive electricity prices. But the Prime Minister, in the presence of a representative of the Czech Statistical Office, told us how great we are in inflation. Yeah, we're still the third worst, Prime Minister. Third worst in Europe, in the European Union. You've got it all figured out, you say -- come on, some editors are already writing about it, that if the inflation is 2%, it'll be your credit that it's gonna be amazing. Well, Luxembourg now has 1%, just so you know, and the EU average and the eurozone average are half what we have. So this is happening, and it's still about money. Yes, I have inflation here, so the euro area is 5.5 percent, Prime Minister, fellow citizens, and the European Union is 6.4 percent. The Czech Republic, and this is a relevant number, because the Czech Statistical Office has a distorted number in the form of a housing reporting methodology, so this is relevant. I know the Prime Minister said last time that Eurostat - that it doesn't work with it, but it works, those are the right numbers. So, Prime Minister, you still have a bronze medal, 11.2 percent. Hungary is the worst. And you know what's interesting? That Hungary has zero in terms of the decline in real wages. We have 8.5 percent. So try to think about why that is. Slovakia has taken our silver medal - 11.3 and we have 11.2 %. Second, third highest inflation, Prime Minister, so please stop bragging about it. So just so you know, I know if we get any lower, you're gonna celebrate again. As your contribution or impact on it or reach is zero. Luxembourg 1 %, Belgium 1,6 %, Spain 1,6 %, Denmark 2,4 % and Greece, imagine 2,8 %, Cyprus 2,8 %, Finland 4,1 %, Portugal 4,7 %, Ireland 4,8 %, France, which has put a price on EDF's electricity, yes. You're still not doing anything about the electricity. It's still the tallest, we're exporting - well, totally crazy. Slovakia has 1500 crowns per megawatt. Dear citizens, count again how much you would have saved if there were people in the government who understood that. So that's the inflation, that's what it's about. And now, of course, the big issue is, and that's what I love, subsidies. The former journalist, I don't want to characterize her, of course, the hatred of me, yesterday an important German entrepreneur told me that everyone would give you compassion, but you have to work hard to hate. Well, that's a big line I remembered. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] We'll be here (?) continue to lecture - Babiš lives on subsidies, lies everyone and so on. And I repeat again - cancel all subsidies throughout the European Union! Cancel! And once again, I call on the Minister of Agriculture, show all agricultural companies, their percentage of subsidies to sales. Some are up to 70 percent. Show it! Show them all! My company took 5 billion into public budgets and the share of Czech subsidies is 30 percent. And they're entitled. So funding is only Babiš's problem. And now our government has come up with these subsidies for the boilers. This is unbelievable. The founder of ODS B also criticized it. And this government is actually coming up with flat-rate subsidies. Yes, I asked my colleague Brabec what happened with the boiler subsidies. And there's the boilers, the old coal boilers, they had mainly people with low incomes, and we helped them. But these subsidies are supposed to be for everyone. And here's a beautiful article that I'm going to read again. In the past, anger was moving over the subsidy business of the Tea Nest by Andrej Babiš. Yes, someone remembered that and recommended that you all go there again. The opposition then, the current government coalition, found the holy electoral grail in it, came to power, and the grant business continues to flourish. There's nothing wrong with the announced plan of Minister Stanjury, cutting off subsidies for 55 billion, about a tenth of a year's volume, he hasn't said which one yet. Well, because they don't exist. This Stanjura is making up a new one. The subsidies do not exist de facto. So secrecy suggests that the materials are prepared, like the plans for the investigation and for better and more ethical administration of the state, by which the five-calices also trapped the voters. They didn't materialize, did they? The government will try to disrupt the money supply to those who have money and influence. On the other hand, the finance resort proposed to increase participation in social subsidies, which puts a well-served nonprofit in a coma, taking care of the services that we have prepaid to the state with taxes, but it can't handle them. Minister Jurečka prefers that in five years the demands on food banks have risen five times, and that is good, I also supported it, the food bank, because the situation of people is getting worse and worse. In addition to saying that subsidies are evil and a claim economy of badness, we have only experienced innovative implementation of eye-catching procedures. And now, fellow citizens, you who are writing me to buy some pickle maker, I can't buy anything because I'm still a politician, so now listen. Norwegian owners have reached a 38-million-dollar grant for Znojmia cucumber, or to support the development and production of new products, processes and technologies in the processing of sterilised vegetable products. However, they no longer want to produce Czech pride in the Czech Republic. Two factories are shut down and 250 people are fired. So they got the grant, I don't understand how it's possible that someone gets the grant and then actually closes the thing and lets people go. For saved money they want to invest in energy efficiency in other, other factories. Yeah, so they got a grant for some factories, they shut it down and put it in others. Pickles will be imported - some time ago, the Znojmo ones from Turkey were being driven, so you know! We bring Znojmo pickles from Turkey, so they're not as crispy as ours. But we can forget about that now. It's mostly energy savings, especially solariums. Solar tunnel, that didn't work, 600 billion in smoke. Thank you, ODS and Co. - that was Topolánkův's tunnel, and let the poor ones lick it too. People have no choice but to hope they don't turn out to be predecessors lured by subsidies for heating and gas boilers. [[9.40 hours]] There's a high bill left for gas or electricity and eyes for crying. Other events, such as the marketing-painted "Fixing Grandma's House" program, come into fashion - that's the one across the board, the new one, 40 billion. Preferably sleepy property. Preferably sleepy property. Yeah, soot, from the word soot. So the property will be soot. Some of the wealthy logged on Twitter that they wouldn't be sitting down, those professional politicians. They can make real estate, write down the permanent residence of someone in the family and, with the contribution of the state, renovate or tear down and build a brand-new house, thanks to the people trying to clean their shield for public money, with the help of the state's contribution. The European Union's decision to subsidize the cultivation of nutmeg and Christmas stars on the continent and to cover it with a media campaign is also beautifully set out. Why not roses or tulips? The editor here is asking. holt's efforts to correct the activism of Maltese Commissioner for Equality Maliová, eager to replace the word [[Helen Dalli?]] Christmas is worth something with the right word for holidays. Donation adventures are not just in the Czech Republic. It's about the subsidies. And now we read, the government decides and gives incentives again. Here we read: The company Crytur received an incentive of 240 million, the company Rockwool in Bohumín 220 million. So I guess there's a return. I don't know what it is. We mentioned it once, it was decided by the minister, now it's decided by the government. What's it like? I'm just fascinated by the fact that when the government hates the incentives and subsidies, why does it do it? And again, of course, we have gigafactors. I think he's got a supertunnel aftertaste. And I'm gonna say it again. Show Volkswagen a binding promise to build gigafactors here. When he goes to the United States, where he's supposed to get billions of dollars... There won't be any gigafactors based on the way I see it and read it. No? So let's see the paper. Or maybe it's just that someone here wants to tear down a $7.5 billion worth of certified airfield, so you approved it, some business again. Then the environmental burdens fell out, where it was stolen before I joined the Ministry of Finance. We've reduced it to a quarter. Madam Secretary Černochová is not here, I called her to do it, so now that we have a treaty with the United States, you have a great airport there. How much would a new runway cost? Well, a lot of money! Maybe 15 billion. And you're still saying you want some gigafactory in Lazy. And where's your Volkswagen paper? What did Volkswagen tell you? Volkswagen told you he's not gonna make electric cars here, it's just engines, internal combustion engines. And if those crazy greens, if this actually stays that way, well, of course, so that we don't live to see the wagons arrive one day, they'll load the robots from Skoda Auto Mladá Boleslav and there won't be any Škoda Auto. So once again, the implications of the incentives. Nexen Žatec. Ask Czech entrepreneurs why they don't have people? Yes, a Czech businessman, a businessman may not be able to pay all 50, 60,000. And, of course, the students who go through the industry, they go into that Nexen, they're behind the machine, they're pushing some buttons, and the tire's falling. Yes, but we didn't want that. No, we want our students for our companies mostly. So here we go again gigafactory mainly in Plzeň, where it is 100%... There aren't people out there. And what kind of trouble it causes... I'm surprised if the Prime Minister hates subsidies so much that he does all of this. That's how he saves money. He can save money. It's the subsidies, the incentives. Now I want to focus on the gray economy. Well, that's amazing. And we all know, and I'm glad that at least the Karlovy Vary Festival has now contributed to some kind of cash-only opinional wave. Big debate - credit cards. Duty? No. This isn't about anyone forcing everyone to pay with a credit card, it's everyone's good will to have a credit card. And if he pays any fees or doesn't pay, that's his problem. But in short, he should be entitled to pay by credit card some goods. The ODS, which was famous for the grey economy and never really distinguished the black and normal money, or, as they called it then, canceled the EET as a flagship. It's completely ridiculous when someone doubts that it brought 5 billion first, then 13, 14. It could have brought 20 billion a year. Everyone knows when you're buying something or some kind of service, so if you don't get a receipt, and that's for us, it was hard to hit everything, of course, but we managed to cut the grey economy from 18 percent in 2013 to 10 percent in 2021. And now there's been a debate at CNN Prima, and here's an MP saying that we can't solve the gray economy with a new office. Oh, yeah, I agree with that. When people get something done without an invoice, they rob themselves, says the MP for STAN. It's okay. That's great. And now here's a big catchphrase that the EET was according to an expert - that's the lady who allegedly was doing business with the diplomas - listen carefully: according to this expert, the EET was the eastern route. So I thought that we were no longer the East and the West, that we were members of the European Union. And do you know why I introduced the EET? Because Mr. Honek from Vítkovice Tours came to me and he told me, look, in Croatia they have a spade and you go to the beach and you get ice cream - I'm not going to talk about ice cream today, but I hear that women who lick ice cream in Germany are offending illegal migrants, but that's what I'm going to get to, illegal migrants, not ice cream - so he says it's the east road and that the right way is education. Education! So, yes, we can try. You can educate entrepreneurs who don't want to show sales. I don't know how it would turn out. Part of the places where the card was paid could have been caused by traders coming to an app. Juchelka says here, our Juchelka, shadow minister Aleš Juchelka, of course Aleš: I don't like it when someone says that the person who pays with the card belongs to the east and the one who cashes to the west. Well, great, that's like a yes. Well, I think it's normal. And it's not about the card, it's about the sales report. [[A round of applause from a few ANO benches.]] That debate again last time... The debate is completely off the charts. People don't understand what's going on. Whoever doesn't make the sales pays people in cash, doesn't have the dues, doesn't have the pensions. That's what this is about. But apparently, the Treasury Secretary doesn't mind. It's okay with this government that we're losing tens of billions. And that's the gray economy. It's about the fact that he works here illegally, thousands of people black, maybe hundreds of thousands, I don't know, very much. And that's where the state is losing money. So this government supports the gray economy. Actually, the government says, so you don't have to report anything. I wonder what... So our seniors can understand why the money isn't there. Because they don't want the money to... That's what it looks like. What else was there? So it was a shock that the EET, according to the expert, is the east road. It's perfectly normal for you to get a receipt everywhere. No? Everywhere. I mean, they've had it in the west before. I'm the one who set it up. Now it's canceled. We lost the money. But obviously, it's okay with this government. [[9.50 hours]] The problem with this government is that she's lying incredibly. They always say the same thing. Now they've figured out that they're gonna say we left them a ragged state, supposedly. This is unbelievable. How can anyone even say that? And that we've been stagnating at all levels for the last eight or ten years. We beat Spain and Italy to the standard of living, we were the sixth least indebted country, we were the seventh safest country, today we were the twelfth, we were one of the most prosperous countries. That's what the papers are for. But the MP is going to say we left the raided state. In the past, we remember Miloš Zeman talking to the ODS about a "burned country," meaning, in an economic sense, a rendered country, I can agree with that, but they were partners, so talking about us leaving a ragged state is really incredibly impertinent. I was intrigued that the Prime Minister was in Poland. That's good, that's his favorite destination. I'm sure they're happy to see him, remember the Turov they tricked us. It fascinates me, there was another press conference as the Prime Minister avoided the subject of illegal migration. Now I'm gonna take a turn because I remembered the debate that took place in the presence of Commissioner Johansson. There was the greatest shock, and there was our colleague Vondráček, there was Mr Vondra, who has quite reasonable views about Europe, so Mrs Johansson normally said on Czech television that the whole migration betrayal, the betrayal, was being prepared by the Czech Presidency. This is unbelievable. So our government, Mr. Rakušan, prepared this invitation for illegal migrants and smugglers to Europe. Yes, Johansson said it normally. I was completely shocked. And that we were supposed to have an exception. Well, we don't have any, so this government normally betrayed the V4, betrayed what we criticized that illegal migrants... that we were supposed to take care of these people in their countries. And what's happening now is that they were visiting in Tunis and that they signed something there, fine, Algeria, Morocco, Erdogan, once got 3 billion. The euro, held there 3 miles. refugees. Great. But if you want to help these people, you want to help those people. We just have to help these people where they are. There is no place for them in Europe. And if anyone wants them, make it Elis and Elen.) as all immigrants went to America. Let somebody they ordered come in, some company or some institution in advance, and they'll normally come in as a labor force. Boats aren't allowed to sail. You're responsible for the hundreds of drownings. And thousands will be. And you can talk in circles. The commissioner's talking nonsense there, too. They're not gonna be there after the European elections, so they're gonna "shut up" that crap again. And that it's a big problem. That's what we see everywhere, that's a big problem. It's just recently seen those migrants in Spain attack a father with a baby. Atd. There are conflicts everywhere. We see what's happening in France, we see what's happening in Germany. That's where people are normally afraid, some of them moving south because they don't want to be there anymore. So I'm gonna go back to the press conference, and it was interesting because, unlike our Prime Minister, Morawiecki didn't talk about migration. And Mr Morawiecki says that the penalty for not accepting an illegal migrant is 20,000 euros. We will receive a hundred times less for receiving a fugitive. I mean a Ukrainian fugitive. So they got 200 euros, we didn't get anything, the Prime Minister still promises it, and I think it's going to be 50 billion in a while, so I wonder when the European Union will pay us 50 billion crowns when Greece and Italy have settled billions of euros. The new Greek Prime Minister will build the fence. That's where he won the election. So I wonder when we'll get the money. And that was nothing against the Ukrainians. I'm just saying, we accepted them, solidly, we supported them, it costs us forty-five billion, whatever the European Union pays us, just as it pays others. That the Prime Minister missed the presidency's chance - yes, and it's a tough business. [[The Presidency?]] That's why the board blockage is great when you're sitting there, like I was sitting there saying - Angela, I want a billion more euros. Four nights, five days we haven't slept. I got her. Because I said I'd be sitting there for a year. The Prime Minister doesn't have the guts. He can't do it. So I'm wondering if someone else will handle it. But Morawiecki is clearly saying - we have talked about illegal migration, there must be no legalization, we must better protect the external border. That's over and over again, we've talked about this a hundred times. I have said a hundred times that we are to protect Europe and the external border, but this is the sea, the sea is the external borders of Europe for me. Asterix and Obelix village, the village. This is our village Europe and there belongs the Western Balkans and Serbia. That's where we're supposed to defend it. Because those illegal migrants are coming, they have guns, they're dangerous, they're aggressive, and that's what the smugglers are for. It's a normal mafia. And the Prime Minister still doesn't understand. And they were talking about energy. I'm so excited to hear the Prime Minister keep telling us how he's gonna cut himself off from Russian oil. He didn't cut last year. And most importantly, he doesn't decide, because it's up to PKN Orlen, the owner of Unipetrol. I don't understand it at all, and I love the way they sell it. It's interesting that the investment in Tale, the expansion of the pipeline's capacity, that the others aren't really up to it, that they didn't want it. Mero's gonna pay for it in the end. MERO is our company, 100%. The 1.6 billion. It'll pay, it could go into the budget, maybe for our seniors. And I'm asking, if that's how it is and it's just politics, I'm convinced that if that Unipetrol guy isn't really buying Russian oil. I'm curious. I think it's nonsense, it's just a policy that costs money just so the Prime Minister can say something. And if it's not politics, and now I see the point, that famous Stork 2 pipeline is. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about. He lied to us that we didn't want it. Well, we wanted it, Prime Minister, but our friends didn't want it. We wanted it, but the cops didn't want it. And here it makes sense. Unless, and I think you're not going to find a private investor for this pipeline. By the way, the Poles built the pipeline, the pipeline that runs from Norway to the border of Ukraine-Slovak, was recently opened, and there it connects with the gas pipeline from Ukraine and Norway, so it is an ideal chance for ČEZ. CEZ sells 20 percent of gas in the Czech Republic today. ČEZ has rented a LNG terminal in EMSU, the Netherlands, it runs boats, it works. That was a good decision, we'll just be interested in how much they bought it for and how much they sold it for. [[10.00 hours]] And if the Prime Minister is repeating that they were talking about the Stork II pipeline, I'd like to know who's gonna build it. I suggest you, Prime Minister, that CEZ do it, because he is a gas distributor, Innoga, who belongs to the Hungarian state, I doubt it. Well, then do it when you keep talking about it. You talked about nuclear power, so let's hope it's not decided who gets the Dukovans in advance. By the way, if we hadn't prepared Dukovany, there's nothing at all, Karel isn't here, but maybe he could tell about Temelín and so on. So this stork guy, we'd like to know if it's gonna be who's gonna build it, who's gonna pay for it. And I think how it doesn't make sense to me that you pay to expand the TAL, that it pays MERO, our company, our fellow citizens, our company, when the refinery decides the Polish owner, it makes sense to me here that CEZ would build it to distribute the gas. So let's see if, because nothing good ever comes out of government. Specific. Not a good one either. [[With a smile.]] Morawiecki here, I forgot, thank you for being able to resolve the crisis around the Turów mine. So I think all the residents of Liberec are also thanking us for the stupid contract, which, of course, is hurting us. Well, here again, the mantra that the Prime Minister always says, they repeat it, that we've always neglected something. I don't know what we've been neglecting, we haven't neglected anything, we've been settling accounts, and we've had a program. This government has no agenda. He doesn't. And no one seems to mind. So it's all about the fact that I find it totally unacceptable that the government heals from pensioners, saves on them, doesn't deserve it. And the charts are rigged, okay? They're rigged because the fact that you had to do it and increase it certainly didn't make a major contribution to keeping the pensioners in balance. I'm sure they're not, they have a hard life, it's mostly about health that doesn't work at all, they're drugs and other things. So that's why we're performing here, and we just want the government to step aside from stealing from our seniors the way they've been doing since they took office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. I have another application before opening the priority point, Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u6	Good morning, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. I would like to respond at least briefly to what was said here in the last hour of the speech by the President of the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš. He spoke here about how this government treats both pensioners and other groups of citizens of this country. So I dare say what the reality is, what the facts are, what the reality is. I said it here last week, last week, this week on Wednesday, but also during the second and first reading of this amendment. When we look at the development of the situation of Czech seniors who receive old-age pensions and other pensions, only in the last year and a half the increase in pension rates is 30 percent, and in the current situation the average pension in this country is virtually equivalent to the most frequently received pension within medians, 20 200. And the vast majority of people in this country have a pension somewhere between CZK 18,000 and CZK 22,000. I'm not making it easy, I repeat, I'm not making it easy for people, seniors, especially those who live alone in their homes and do not even have a widow's pension, so, of course, the situation is more complicated with them. But at the same time, the government has greatly helped these groups of people over the last year by significantly adjusting the normalities of the housing allowance. During the previous government, the housing allowance was set at about 55 percent, the applicants were ceilinged and no longer helped to pay for their housing costs, they simply received only the amount given to them by the ceiling, and although it was often senior citizens who lived in cities, in larger apartments that they simply remained because the children had already left and perhaps left their husband, wife and widowed, these people had great problems in the past governments to cover their housing costs. This has changed last year, and the support has increased considerably, so today the ceiling affects about 15 percent of those applicants for a housing allowance and also this form of assistance in this exceptional situation, I think it is proving to be a help that makes a profound sense. Anyway, if we look at the retirement situation, I'll just remind you. During your reign, as a KDU-ČSL, we have applied three times in total to the amendment for the introduction of education. It's always been rejected on your part. It only succeeded, I think, at the second-last meeting in the last parliamentary term, it was then in the finals the proposal by Roman Sklenák, who was voted by an absolute majority of the other parties, and from 1 January this year there is a training which helps more than 1.4 million women a month, today's grandmothers, who are the key people who raised, gave birth and raised us, the current productive generation who were punished by the system for having devoted themselves to motherhood and parenthood, for having missed part of their careers, for losing part of their salaries and the growth of that salary or salary during their lives. And education equals one key injustice, and that is that we can appreciate not only how long a person has worked and how much he has earned, but also that he has invested his love, sleepless night, his patience in the fact that there is today's generation here that can actually contribute with its contributions to those pensions. It is CZK 20 billion for this year, which has helped these people, these women who have never been valued in the past. And in the proposal for this pension reform - and I regret that you have not read it - for example, it is precisely this that we are systematically addressing this problem so that we can appreciate the time of motherhood and parenthood in these people's pension accounts by adding this time to them as a time when they will have the contribution calculated from the average wage in that particular year in this country. It is a fundamental step forward in that our proposal for pension reform also builds the pension reform on the support and appreciation of parenthood's merits as a key step towards the fact that the ongoing system is set up to always be there some next generation, which helps to finance and pays from month to month pensions of current pensioners, i.e. parents and grandparents of that particular productive generation. Then I also want to mention the support that we implemented not only for pensioners but also for families, for vulnerable groups, during last year. I remind you - to families, we paid our parents almost CZK 7 billion at the end of August last year in support of CZK 5,000 for the family and for each child up to CZK 1 million for income. I also recall that KDU-ČSL has long been responsible for introducing tax discounts and tax bonuses on children with working parents into our tax system. It is a unique instrument that is inspired by us in Austria. Yesterday I was in Katowice, the Minister said that they analyze this system from us and find it very good and consider that they would also introduce these elements into their system, where support for families is not only a matter of support through the social system, but that support for families, especially working parents, works very effectively despite tax discounts and tax bonuses. Just a reminder, it was the KDU-ČSL proposal again in 2020, which brought the fact that we increased the discount to the second, third and other child. [[10.10 hours]] I'm just saying, for example, for the second child, it was from CZK 19 404 to CZK 22 320 per year, for the third child, and the next one was from CZK 19 404 to CZK 27,840. This means, for example, for a family with three children, tax aid of CZK 65 364. And what was very important is that we canceled the meaningless ceiling that couldn't be cancelled for years, when parents who worked and had more children didn't deduct the discount and the discount wasn't tilted into the bonus that the state subsequently paid and the border there was CZK 60,300. This has been removed and today, when a parent or parent is working and they have three, four, five or more children - and such families are, and they really need to be appreciated and supported, so finally since 2022, these families have not been limited by this ceiling. Again, it was a proposal that we folks brought. And it has a really practical use and appreciates those who care, work, set an example for the future generation in that it is also important to work. You were talking about housing. I think that this week, again, has brought about a major shift in housing support aimed at young parents, young families who have difficulty in financing housing, to fund repairs to their homes. And there is also a great accent to the fact that we appreciate the fact that there are children in the family, the sum of CZK 50,000. The program Fixing the house after grandma, as it is called by the office, will work so that we even simplify the system that it is possible to draw on the deposit, people can do it with their own help, we simply satisfy this to work really, simply in practice, to help in order to be able to support people who need to secure their housing and, above all, young families, because they have the biggest problem with this. So we are doing a concrete shift in making this really work so that we can improve this significantly in the Czech Republic. We are preparing a major reform of the entire batch system for the MPSV after long years. If I put it simply, who can work and not work, then he simply will not receive the support he has received so far. For years before me, no one had decided to connect the systems that were separate. Employment policy, state social support and material emergency. No. We are preparing simplification and preparing far more consistency and much more transparency in that we can really set things up very well in the future so that those who can and do not work, avoid work or work black. We will implement these changes in the course of next year. We've been working on this for the last roughly three quarters of the year to make it work, so that digitalization can not only make us more consistent, but at the same time simplify the whole system, when people come and today document different revenues, the different data that the state has, but unfortunately, in previous years we haven't been able to change this, so that we can be not only more client-friendly, so that the system can be simpler, but that we can be much more addressable. In order to be able to increase the help where there is really a need, where the help is lacking today, where it is not sufficient and can be reduced or completely removed where it does not make sense, where these people are supposed to help themselves, because they simply can work for objective reasons, but maybe they don't want to. These are the things that have just been going on that we're going to implement, and that are clearly for the benefit of the years that we haven't been able to fix these things here, for years, to fix them. And I would also like to make an important point about the pensions. You have argued here, Mr President, a comparison with other countries such as Austria. But it is also important to say that these comparisons are not entirely relevant because pensions in Austria and Germany are burdened with subsequent taxes. In Germany, pensions are still burdened with social contributions, so these numbers cannot be compared entirely unless we clear them of the real net value that the citizen in question receives in the country. And let me remind you, today the difference in the amount of pension between the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which we can compare when these systems are very, very similar, so there is a difference in the amount of the average pension of CZK 5,000. In Slovakia, citizens today have CZK 5,000 less pension or average pension. These are the facts, these are concrete steps that have taken to support, help not only the elderly, but parents, families, other vulnerable groups. I remind you, last year we actually repeatedly increased the existential minimum, increased the encore for the child, increased support for people who need support for a higher mobility allowance, and increased the amount of higher people who need breathing devices, some support for those who have higher energy consumption. Those are things that haven't been done in years, but we've managed to make them happen last year. And of course, and thank you for voting in favour and raising your hands. I also recall that in the last two years in social services, the situation has also changed significantly. I already forward, at the beginning of September last year I told all social services representatives what amount they can count on under the subsidy title. Everyone acknowledged it and said, the government never communicated with us so that we would know before ever for the second or third week of December. We are trying to meet these demands and needs in the field of social services. We are now working on a major shift in ensuring that the social and health constraints can really adequately cover from the health system of health insurance companies what is taking place in social services from the point of view of health care. Not only from the point of view of the level of remuneration and the scale of the payments, but also from the point of view of being able to straighten out the fact that some of the actions that are being carried out today are simply not reported, and the provider is actually losing the opportunity to obtain these funds from the health insurance system, so that the providers can offer you more scope and more quality of social services in the field. In order to be logically able to pay better those who provide this assistance. And I could continue to list many other specific points that are happening for the benefit of the citizens of this country. So, at least a brief response to some of the statements that were being made here, but I think they were not objective in that there are a whole series of steps that have happened over the past year and a half that have contributed to making sure that even in the difficult situation that we have been going through, not just us, but also the other states around us, Europe, to make it clear that we have done our utmost to keep unemployment from growing here. That's what many of your colleagues here said about how unemployment will grow, how companies will be released. I remember some fiery speeches here that said that up to 60 percent of companies would be fired. None of this happened. We helped make sure there was energy, so there was gas, so no one had to limit their production, their production. We have contributed to the fact that the grant support has been fully implemented to enable households, vulnerable groups of people, to benefit from financial support for heating, for building renewable resources on their real estate. Same with companies, public sector. And he managed to handle the situation. We have the lowest unemployment in the whole of the European Union today. And when I mentioned the support for vulnerable groups here, I'm reminding you, the new Green Savings Light. A specific, simple program, where it is targeted at seniors, for persons who receive a housing allowance or people who are disabled in third degree. And here, in this form of support that we implement in cooperation with the National Network of Local and Annual Groups, we can come to people's homes directly, offer them this program, offer them help to manage it, receive the funds and in the form of backup. They can heat up their property, they can implement new windows, new doors, and so on, so that they can save effectively. And these expenses make great sense in that they are really the steps that solve problems in the long run. That we want these people to be able to get their property in such a state that they can save for energy so that they don't have to go anywhere to ask for any more support. So it's a huge shift that's happened here, and we're definitely counting on the New Green Savings that's been going great for years, but if you look at the way it's been going, then mostly the one who's been able to heat the house through the New Green Savings, the one who's taken a photovoltaic, it's people with medium and higher incomes. Today we want and do these concrete steps so that people with low incomes can ask for this support. Even families with kids that maybe didn't have it in them. Even the seniors, who were simply in a situation that their house could not keep warm in the long run, could not replace the windows, so this is the kind of adjustment that we have put together for really these groups, even those vulnerable groups of the population, to take these measures. And to save permanently, once and for all, on bills of electricity, for gas, and to be able to even have some little photovoltaics and in the future to sell some surpluses. [[10.20 hours]] This is, I think, a big change, a big shift in how we perceive the solution to these causes and how we look at the fact that we also need these groups of people who may not have had such resources, could not save, could not so far ask for New Green Savings, so that they too have the chance to simply implement these meaningful and good measures on their properties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-21-ps2021-071-06-000-000.u7	Thank you. Now we're going to continue with the interrupted point.
