ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u1	114. Government bill on the protection of notifiers / House print 352 - third reading I ask that Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, constitutionally-legal committee, Member Radek Vondráček take the position of the rapporteur's chair. Mr Radek Vondráček is excused, the rapporteur will be changed at the third reading and will be Mr Feranec. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 352/3, which was delivered on 4 April 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 352/4. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? You do. Please, Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] Otherwise, colleagues, I'll ask you if you have something urgent you need to deal with in order to go to the lobby. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. I think that these two laws, which follow, on the bills, were said quite a lot at first and second reading. I will just remind you that both proposals were discussed on 1 February, 1 March and 12 April of this year by the constitutionally-legal committee, and as a committee of the guarantee Chamber of Deputies recommended in the third reading the proposals and supported by the recommendation the amendment, which would allow notifiers to report, in addition to offences, offences for which the law provides for a fine rate of at least CZK 100,000. Today it would be good if both proposals were approved, inter alia, because these proposals result from our membership of the European Union, and due to the delay with the transposition, an action has already been brought to the Court of Justice of the European Union, despite the fact that the current government has done its utmost to prevent this step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I am opening up a debate where the rapporteur is reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, member, ladies and gentlemen, let me just add what the plaintiff said. He's already been told he's been involved. The guarantee committee was the constitutional-legal committee with the fact that there were - just to remind you - various amendments, with some of them being aimed at including protection even for offences, that is one part of the proposal, and the second part was to protect anonymous notifiers, and then there are such compromises between that, which means, it has already been said, Mr Benda's proposal, offences where the limit of the fine is at least CZK 100,000, and another proposal by Mr Michálek, where for anonymous bodies it would be an obligation only for bodies in principle of public character, if I do so in general, then I will explain precisely. [[A congressman?]] [[I'll say]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u5	I thank you, and now I have five registered for the general debate. First will be Mrs Hana Naiclerová, then Mrs Helena Válková and others. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have tabled two amendments to the Government's bill on the protection of notifiers. In my second reading discussions, I signed up for them and briefly justified them. I am now speaking to try to persuade you to vote in favour of my amendments. The aim of my proposals is to contribute to the greater functioning of the law. Our aim is not only to make a pipe that we have worked on the European directive, but we should work actively to approve a law that will work and that will effectively protect the notifiers. Announcer is not an informer or a snitch, the notifier is someone who pointed out the infringement at the cost of reducing their comfort, even at the risk that the employer will retaliate, that he will be dragged by the media and that no one will hire him anymore. I have experience myself. In my town, as an opposition representative, I drew attention to various violations of the city's laws and inefficient transactions. I was able to stop funding for an over-indebted sports club, which would otherwise have been the executor. From political opponents and media mates, I had to hear a lot of nasty things, I was labeled an informer. And when someone calls you that in a regional medium, it has a huge impact. People notice and think about you completely differently. Of course, the law on the protection of notifiers will not solve everything, but it must ensure that every notifier of the infringement is certain that he will have protection, in the words of the law, that he will protect against so-called retaliatory measures. This protection cannot be based on legal qualifications. The notifier cannot be subject to legal qualifications as to whether a criminal offence or offence has been committed by the notified act and whether a fine of CZK 50, 100 or 150,000 is in danger of the offence. This is simply unacceptable. We should encourage people not to be afraid to draw attention to corruption, to tinkle public procurement, to release cyanide into the river, to employment without a contract of employment. It all ruins lives and contributes to the destruction of the rule of law. If it weren't for active notifiers, the case of Dieselgate would never have been revealed by the Volkswagen car manufacturer, which had reached world dimensions. In the Czech Republic, we would never have heard of the State Environmental Fund case if it weren't for the notifier Libor Michálek. I'd like to take a look at the anonymous announcements. The experience of both companies and the authorities that have implemented the notification systems clearly confirms that they are also gaining important knowledge from anonymous notifications. Often, the most serious information about crime is given in anonymous notifications. In other words, when it comes to big money and there is a need for an organized group, the pressure on potential notifiers is higher and everyone is more afraid to make a notification. It is precisely because of the most serious economic crime and corruption that anonymous notifications need to be made available and explicitly anchored in the law. If anyone thinks there's gonna be an anonymous announcement because of a banal violation of the Labor Code, it's a mistake. In this case, a typical employee who feels damaged by the employer's actions applies his claim directly to receive what he was reduced to. The investigation is useless to him if he doesn't get the money he deserves. In the context of anonymous notifications, I call for my amendment to be approved in the interests of clarity and clarity of the legal regulation, i.e. expressly stating that the notification under this law is also made anonymously. It is not in accordance with the legal certainty of the notifiers to adjust whether the notification can be made anonymously or not, depending on the percentage of the State's or self-government share in the corporation. [[11.20 hours]] However, if it is not the will to approve my amendment, I believe that approving the proposal by colleagues Michálek, Cogan and Jakob is a must if we do not want to continue to increase the fines to be paid by the Czech Republic in the European Union. If anonymous notifications are not received in the public sector, the Whistleblowing standard already reached will fall and such an adjustment is contrary to the European Directive. It would actually be an incorrect transposition. In conclusion, I would like to ask one thing. Please think about anonymous announcements and all of this law in substance, rationally and without dogma. To report infringements in the legal state is not tipping or tipping, anonymous notifications often contain serious information. Please, let's not give them up. Let us correct the incorrectness of the government's proposal and make the law on the protection of notifiers a functional anti-corruption instrument. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. Another duly signed up is Mrs Helena Válková and Mrs Lucie Potůčková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I will bring you back to recent history, because I will follow up as closely as possible on the words of my previous speaker, Mrs Naiclerová, who was also the whistleblower, I too, and we have a different experience than most of the Members who are in this Chamber and who will vote. You and I had our own experiences, including the sequences of what it means. What am I talking about? Pilsen rights 2009/2010. In vain I went to the then dean, the dean - you all know him, I don't want to name him now and his closest associates because it damaged the name of the Pilsen rights for the next ten years, so the circus. It's better now, of course, but there are still students who, when applying for a job, hear such a defensive question: But aren't you from Pilsen rights? And they say, "I am, for example, but I was a stateswoman with Professor Šámal or Professor Eliáš or Professor Válková. Look, that's a very bad card. What preceded it? In vain requests that - because we suspected, we didn't know exactly, some students went through standard driving without allowing them to study individually - led me to this, and my assistants pointed out that I began the problem of students who slipped through my fingers, even though I threw them out at the state's office, and then I saw them at the graduation, looking deeper. And I found out some nasty things, and I don't want to go back to them, and I was faced with this decision about what to do. Given that the leadership was very interested in continuing these practices, and our Department of Criminal Law - which he led first, I took over after him, colleague Dr. Baxa, later Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court, and with me lectured Professor Eliáš, I was then head of the Department of Criminal Law - so we could not afford to have our names associated with at least non-transparable procedures, techniques, decisions of the then administration. But because - and now, let me say, on the microphone, I say gender exaggeration - because men are sometimes, when it's not war, let's say more careful - I don't want to say more cowardly, but more careful, so I was warned not to open it. But at some point when I opened it, it wasn't a statement, even though it sounds ugly, but it was an announcement that went public, of course. The accreditation committee came in, everything started to be investigated in style, even the law enforcement authorities. As you well know, there was no one - and here I say, luckily, I certainly was not bloodthirsty - condemned, but it was discovered that these practices and practices were in conflict with legislation, with the university law and other related regulations governing higher education. Some of the titles have been removed, others have not been recognized and so on. What happened to me and law school? I immediately flew from the head of the Department of Criminal Law. I was dehonested in the sense that my colleagues stopped greeting me. Some of the students looked at me strangely, even then, I don't know if it was the academic senate, they were wondering how I could have dehonested the law faculty of the University of West Bohemia, and it took very hard six months before the cards turned 180 degrees and I returned to the same position that I was fired from, and, on the other hand, the law school's leadership had to resign. He took over afterwards and the dean was Mr. Dean, former Minister of Justice, which is interesting, Jiří Pospíšil. We were putting it together. Then in a year - and I want to say this unfortunate consequence of what it means for such a notifier - we completely failed in the secret election in the academic Senate, and Professor Eliáš, Professor Šámal and I are from the protest of Pilsen law with a bleeding heart - because I loved the law school, we were at its birth and we competed that one day we might be better than, perhaps, the Brno Faculty or Prague, which was more than presumptuous, of course - we were the worst and the academic Senate made it clear to us, so we left and tried to establish a law school in Prague, which we failed, private. The accreditation committee at that time did not approve this because it did not recognise our publishing activity, which was very rich, with the justification that our publishing activities and scientific research activities would only start to count at the time of the application for accreditation, which meant cutting 20 years of scientific research work. They didn't want to have competition, they didn't want to have a private law school where those departments would be run by people like us who certainly guaranteed a certain level of expertise. And now I'm gonna go back to what I was thinking after that. A lot of my former students are in important positions as judges, prosecutors, well-known lawyers, senior officials, I love meeting them - when they meet me, they report to me. It's just people who are, like, 45, 40, 48 years old, remembering that time, but there's always this but, they're saying, "Sorry it happened back then at a time when there was this kind of damage." I figured out - or opened up the case - that we probably should have been even faster, because we suspected some things, but just lacked legislation that would clearly enable us and provide protection from what we had to count on, and I had no idea that it would be within a week to justify that I had failed to fill out a holiday note, so I was immediately kicked out of my post as head of the department, and I must say that that was when Dr. Baxa and Professor Šámal stood up very much for me. [[With laughter.]] But it was useless, the six months. So basically, I was thinking, "Sorry there's no protection here." And since then, and that is why I was very happy when the YES movement came up with the fact that it wanted to adopt such a standard and started to actively promote and act in the previous parliamentary term - it has already started in the past, but it has continued in the previous parliamentary term - a legislation that would minimise or optimally eliminate the risks arising from such situations as I and Mrs Naiclerová have been through. Now we have the norm. I speak as someone who is subjectively biased, I do not wish you that experience, and logically I will be a little bit more of a fan of the amendments that are being made here. [[11.30 hours]] Like Mrs Naiclerová - at least that amendment under letter D - than others who are justifiably, Mrs Naiclerová, by your means, Mr Vice-President, I draw attention to possible risks. I can objectively see the risks in that if we open the legislation generously in the original sense of the word, as Radek Vondráček argued, and I applauded it, it can happen to us - and now it is not a trick question, I do not think and will not reveal who is saying it - but I have heard several times across the political spectrum: How is it with us Czechs? Are we really like other people who are considering whether or not they're going to make an announcement to their fellow citizens? Or do we tend to be more dependent, to report more to our neighbors when they are doing well, and so on? Everyone has to answer that question on their own. So I have been going through such a big internal struggle - you see that it has only something to do with this right, then of course I will get to it, it is also an ethical and emotional question, what is the optimal regulation, and these are the two problems that will decide to what extent this law will become functional, or it will be a so-called legislative dead child. Although we will have it here, we will not be threatened with sanctions from the EU, but the implementation will be very, very narrow. Personally, I won't mention how I'm going to vote any more, you'll see it after all. I say that my vote is determined by a little personal experience, but let me point out that I myself am curious about this coalition proposal, and to those who point to our great unknown, how people will react in practice. I myself am careful when it comes to offences, although I agree with the argument that Mrs Naiclerová here, by your means, Mr Vice-President, has raised that few will know whether or not the limit is 100 000 or not, and how he will consider it. On the other hand, go straight into transgressions if they're right - and I don't want them to be right - those who say we're the kind of nation that likes to announce, they use the defensive expression. I don't think this is the place, because this is an announcement. I've never felt like an informer, I've always just felt right in relation to Pilsen rights, as who announces - hopefully on time. I think it wasn't in time when I saw the devastating effects on the reputation of law school, but also the University of West Bohemia in Pilsen. I should have done it sooner. So I'm gonna go back to the first problem, so that's the misdemeanor of caution. At the same time, when a lawyer thinks something, he knows that it is such a certain obsessive, because in law it is either so, or it is not, so in this respect I understand all those who do not have this experience as we do, Mrs Naiclerová, by your means, Mr Vice-President, that they will be very reserved. When it comes to the problem of anonymity, I did not understand at the moment, because unlike some colleagues, I attended those seminars and from the beginning I also said that anonymity was actually the greatest guarantee that people would not be afraid. Also, foreign legislation always shows us the way, experience and possibilities, so I don't know if anyone's done the work of evaluating how it works. Slovakia has crimes and offences and all acts that have a negative effect on society. I have in my background what I've been given - I don't really believe - that there are absolutely all the negotiations, that would be impeccable. I haven't seen Slovak legislation. I wonder if Mr Michálek, who made that one amendment, has any strong arguments or analysis at his disposal. Croatia - any violation of the law, regardless of the legal qualifications that harm public interest, also for my taste too bland wide definition. However, you can see that these two countries are going relatively boldly in a direction that seems to prove themselves in practice. France - I will not tire you out, I know that there is probably no room for this now, but France is such an interesting one, we have a colleague here, Mrs Decroix, who may be able to correct me, who knows French law, unlike me - all violations of national law or international agreements that threaten or harm public interest - I forgot to say by means of you, Mr Vice-President, when I approached my colleague. So, as you can see, some countries have chosen more courageously than we have, but I say, there may be this historical experience that they trust their citizens more, that they will not abuse and overuse the announcement that it will not be an unfair, burdening announcement, relatively generously built legislation. To answer the question of where the border is for the Czech Republic and its potential future notifiers in order to achieve the protection of notifiers on the one hand, on the other hand, certain constraints have been placed on the possible misuse of the new legal institute, in my view it is almost impossible. We will have to decide and, of course, that discussions have certainly been held within the various political parties, so this vote may also go across the political spectrum. We can be enchanted by the fact that we are killers for a corrupt society and that we must accept this in the broadest sense of the word, or we can choose the opposite argument that we are responsible guardians of public trust in justice and justice, we must not overwhelm the system by investigating offences that will turn out to be a personal relationship between employees and employers. Those are the two extremes. I do not know how this standard will be applied in practice. What I do know, as well as the Minister of Justice, is that we can no longer hesitate that we have been given a mandate to finally raise our hand and agree on some legislation in such a case, even so that we do not really become one of the last countries to face the sanctions that, in this respect, deservedly due to the lack of implementation. So my arguments lead me to conclude that the government proposal, although various non-state non-profit organizations are very critical of it, is certainly much better than none. Second conclusion: it was us, as the YES movement, who always bragged and I think rightly pointed out that we were entering politics, that we could no longer look at certain corruption negotiations. So don't even suspect us that we wouldn't raise our hand for this law, I'm telling you in advance. In this we have a perfectly uniform club, we want the law, although in some parameters we are not entirely comfortable with it, but Mr Vondráček - who is currently saying goodbye for all of us to Mrs Jana Lorencová, who is having a funeral today and which we have very much appreciated in the area of detecting corruption and serious crimes as brave journalists, dissidents, his absence is justified and I am saying it here on a microphone - and he also asked me to make clear that this is the standard that we have sought in particular. We are not pushed into this by the European Union, it is part of our programme and part of our direction, so we will definitely raise our hand for it. [[11.40 hours]] On the other hand, there are those among us - I don't know how many there are, I didn't ask colleagues - who, of course, are not quite enthusiastic about how they succeeded, and I think ironically now, narrow down the legislation of the government coalition, or the Justice Department, the Minister, to forgive me, and perhaps some of us will say that by voting on the amendments. I think that I will not speak for YES, we have a free vote, but that we are rather very careful, we welcome this adjustment, but the reserved approach to the amendments prevails. And I understand that, and I'm not saying it out of some caution, but I understand that without personal experience, it will be a good vote for this proposal. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that criticism of all of us who paradoxically agree to this narrower version of the protection of notifiers is likely to come from those who wanted a much wider regulation and who point out that it is such a Potěmkinův village. They're handing out flyers, calling us, and basically making lobbyism positive in this case, but I don't think we're gonna get any compliments from them. So I would like to say one thing to them for myself, not for the YES movement, and certainly not for the other Members. I'm happy to be able to raise my hand today for this adjustment. Unlike you, I don't think it would happen that, on the contrary, as one of the arguments sounds, there will be a reduction in the protection, which you didn't convince me. I think that this is the first step in the right direction, and I will certainly be one of those who will try in the future, if the caregivers among us are not right - who say: Wait, wait, how it will paralyze the institutions, just the solution, and how much it will be financial and in bad economic times today, uncertain times, what a huge administrative burden it will be - so if these cautiouss are not right, which I firmly hope, I am convinced of, so nothing prevents us from doing yet in this parliamentary term, nothing prevents us from preparing an amendment to extend the legislation. Let us give this legislative child, if he is born today, some time, and two years from now we can meet here and say: It was empty of concern, we will go in a bolder direction. And in favour of those who are now travelling for greater legal protection, we will accept the amendment. Thank you for your attention. I hate to go back to the past that was frustrating for me, and sometimes still, when I think about 2009 and 2010, I wonder what a person can do. Then I found that worse things had to be handled in politics, but then it was a big lesson for me, and I am happy that those who might get into situations like Mrs Naiclerová, through you, Mr Vice-President, and I will say a little dramatic protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brázdil's point of fact now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u10	Thank you. I can't speak so beautifully as a lawyer, but I feel it, please, like this. An anonymous notifier - who makes those amendments to protect him, the anonymous notifier, assumes that the person is good. She's a positive person, she's just a little scared. Yeah, but there may also be bad people among them who aren't afraid, but they want to hurt someone. And a person who feels that something is wrong and wants to report it, so when he is not, or better said, afraid, and can be, certainly yes, he should give it to someone else, maybe a friend at the workplace or who is older and is no longer afraid, because he may even end and will not be fired. In short, and well, I'm sorry, I feel like it's just anonymity, I said it here, it's bonkers, and that's not how I want it. So either I'm fair and I'm not ashamed of it, or I'm not, and I'm not going to do this, because just anonymity is in my eyes and I've been raised so... Do I stand by it? Then get your skin on the market. Or maybe don't go anywhere and you don't have to worry. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u11	Thank you. Now duly signed up for the debate by Mrs Lucie Potůčková. Mr. Karel Haas will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here for the STAN movement that we will support the amendment either A or possibly B1 by my dear colleague Hana Naiclerová, who puts offenses in the substance of the law and therefore the whole range without limiting the fine rate. In the first place, we believe that limiting the content of the notification only to offences, as stated in the current proposal, would exclude from the notification a number of infringements in the field of labour law, building regulations or, for example, the protection of the environment. We believe that it would be very difficult for the relevant persons in certain mandatory bodies, often without legal training, to escalate whether the conduct described in the notification is fulfilling the factual nature of one of the offences. We can certainly require such an erudition, for example, in the public administration, but hardly in the private sector. Furthermore, we will also support the adoption of anonymous notifications for the protection of anonymous notifiers, but only in the public sector, not in the private sector, which in many cases already has these mechanisms in place within its corporate responsibility, and we do not think that the private sphere needs to be further tasked or burdened. However, the public sector should set a clear example, and I say this as a longtime mayor as well as a person who has been in charge of both government and self-government. However, in order to avoid disproportionate burdens when receiving verbally, such as telephone notifications only, we will support the compromise proposal - letter D, which only determines the written form of such anonymous notification, which is, of course, better processed. Here I would like to add that there is currently only one legal instrument in our legal order to protect the notifiers of this type, which is Regulation No. 145/2015 and concerns the notification of suspicions of committing an infringement, but under the service law regime. However, this Regulation is repealed by the amendment law, the following print 353. If we did not approve the protection of anonymous notifiers in any form, there would be a reduction in the existing protection and, therefore, we could again be in conflict with Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, we do not want to get into conflict, because now we are running the infringement procedure at the Court of Justice, when we are running a fine, which at the end of March was about CZK 54 million, and this fine is growing every day. At the same time, I would very strongly set out here, and here I may have accidentally been recorded by my colleague Brázdil, through the President who appeared here before me, against any expressions such as squealing, snitching and snitching, which have already appeared during the discussions around this law on the protection of notifiers, appear and appear, because I believe that the time is simply a little bit different than it was 30 years ago. I completely understand that many people can get any announcements from unpleasant connotations and sentiments and memories of a long time ago, but the practice of many states clearly shows that the benefits of this law are not only morally positive, but also financially measurable. We will therefore be happy if you support the amendments aimed at including a whole range of offences within the scope of the law, as well as the protection of anonymous public sector notifiers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u13	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I consider this to be a very good report that the Chamber of Deputies will probably pass the Whistleblowing Act at third reading today, because that is one of the key anti-corruption laws that unfortunately failed to succeed in the last parliamentary term. So we will finally begin to protect people who save lives, health, or money by alerting corruption or other unfair practices. I think those who have the courage deserve recognition and support. Even as a priori is labeled in some inappropriate way, I don't think it's entirely fair to them and it's not quite good for the prosperity of our society either. As pirát, we are the anti-corruption party, we are consistent in the long run. That is why people who choose to do the right thing and draw attention to such serious wrongdoing - we are not talking about any references or substitute things, small things - those who actually draw attention to serious actions and save lives, health, and public money should deserve protection. What is important, however, is to say in advance and openly that this weapon against corruption will not work if it insists on revealing the identity of all notifiers. There will be a significant reduction in the effectiveness of this law. It needs to be pointed out. We are trying to address this with the amendment that I tabled with colleagues from STAN and from TOP 09. Our amendment to letter D states that the authorities, state companies, transport companies and other similar public sector companies should allow notification to be made anonymously via an application where the notifier receives a reply, that is to say, there will be an anonymous notification channel. If the notifier sees that the Authority actually handles the notification and requires further synergies, it turns out that, in a large part of those cases, the notifier is going on the market with skin, providing further data in order to spread the matter. Those announcements are in practice units per year for each institution, but by introducing the possibility of anonymous notification channels or by maintaining them in ministries, as is the case today under the government's regulation approved by the government of Babiš and Sobotka - and by this law it is proposed to cancel - that would greatly increase confidence in the entire notification system. Among other things, I remind you that in the Czech Republic the functional protection of whistleblowers would save some CZK 10 billion according to the estimates of the European Commission. The protection of notifiers is not really a Czech invention. Those anonymous notification channels or generally reporting channels are already an international anti-corruption standard. There is a special ISO standard that describes how each organisation should set internal procedures to minimise the risk of corruption. There is, among other things, an opportunity to announce it without revealing its identity. It is important for the employees' confidence in the proper investigation of the case that the authorities have a legal obligation to investigate all the notifications, including those anonymous ones, and not simply to throw anonymity in the trash, even if they contain serious warnings, because if we do this, we are simply laying the burden on the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, which anonymously must deal with, and they obviously have much more rare capacities to deal with these matters. Most of the announcements that lead to the discovery of corruption are anonymous today, a little over 50 percent. So if we really want this law to be effective, we need to take account of such announcements. These people are doing this because they are simply afraid of endangering their person, that there may be some kind of repression against them, it can disrupt relationships in the collective, it can lead to bullying and so on, so I think it's understandable. All you have to do is remember a whole series of corruption cases that have been exposed and spread, such as the ROP Northwest. On the basis of the announcement, there were billions of taxpayers' money, and some of the announcements were made anonymously. I think it's important to remember that. If there is no anonymous path, the effectiveness of spreading corruption will fall to about half, as I said, and unfortunately some forms of hidden corruption will continue. That is why I proposed that the authorities and public institutions should have to deal with all the notifications by law. In my role as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, I have already received several such initiatives. It is certainly not that I am overwhelmed by dozens of things that would be collected there, but I have to say that I have received several suggestions, both anonymous and non-anonymous, and the vast majority of them were incentives that are justified, which are passed on for further investigation and which end by drawing concrete conclusions on the fact that in some cases there may have been avoidance of rules that are for the distribution of land for the purpose of rule 30 ha, for the purpose of income, subsidies, mandatory limits, etc. So I'm not talking about the mass reports that we get from the citizens of each of us a lot and a lot, especially if we're discussing some kind of socially intense topic. I am talking about announcements that are actually specified to investigate and which contain specific facts. I understand and understand that it is different with private companies, that it is logical that the employer should have an interest in protecting his property and it is his responsibility, as he sets it up within his company and whether he lets himself be deprived of money or not, but within what we all are responsible for, which is our common property, whether it is the property of citizens, whether it is property in various state firms, property managed by the authorities and so on, I believe that this approach should be set strictly. The paradox is that it was the government of Andrej Babiš, who submitted an even more stringent law on notifiers, which demanded that anonymous notifications be investigated not only in public institutions but even in private firms, so that the proposal put forward by the government of Andrei Babiš went far further than our amendment under letter D, which concerns only public institutions. Let me just remind you that the YES movement in the book of its President What I dream about when I'm sleeping, he even assumes that the corruption notifier should receive financial assistance. It's in the book of Andrej Babiš that I dream of. Once again, it's nothing that's quite unusual. It is a system that works in America, where the notifier, who actually warns about corruption, is entitled to 30% of the money that has been proven to be saved, and these notifiers will come up with quite good amounts if they point out really large frauds. The current Czech concept is milder. We do not count on any form of remuneration for the notifiers, so that it is really clear to everyone that the notification, if justified, is motivated by the honest intentions of the person, not by the financial reward. But at the same time, we want the law to work in practice. According to the proposal, as Minister Blažek put it, there is indeed one problematic part that the Ministry should not be obliged to investigate anonymous announcements, which is actually worse than today. Part of this proposal is also the repeal of the regulation, which regulates it, as has already been said here from the mouth of the previous speakers. I really do not understand why it is proposed to cancel the possibility of anonymous notifications, because in practice there is no problem with this, there is no problem with anonymous notifications with investigators of central administrative offices. Those announcements are units for every office, and it's not a thing that should be canceled. A far greater problem in practice is that we still have little confidence that corruption and suspicion will be really exposed and that we have very little success in uncovering corruption. [[12.00 hours]] Now I would briefly comment on the limit of CZK 100,000. I think that the reflection of Marek Benda's proposal is going more or less in the right direction, and we have discussed it with each other. I also came up with a proposal for a limit of that amount, so I certainly don't want to condemn it or drop it in any way, but it should be pointed out that today's system is in some cases inappropriately set up for violations, such as a violation against conflicts of interest and so on, they have the fine set at CZK 50,000, that is, all offences that can be socially serious and where the subsequent repression may occur, would really fall out of the protection, and I appreciate that there was an updated proposal for a change of procedure, that first there will be a vote on the full form in which it covers all offences, and only then about the limit of CZK 100,000, so that there is the possibility of finding out whether there would be any votes for the full scope of the law in order to protect them, for example, even those notifiers who would point out that the rules are being broken somewhere in the community from the point of conflict of interest, if they are working at the office and are afraid of repression, so that these people would also have the possibility of legal protection, so that the court might put them in place in the situation, where they would be protected, where they would be able to find out that the reasons for the local authorities maybe they are not to be closed, that they are not to be closed to them. In conclusion, I would like to say that when another corruption case emerges, when the state will lose hundreds of millions or billions of crowns, people will ask why, as politicians, we have allowed people to report problems, and why the authorities are throwing reasonable announcements into the trash, with the full sanctification of the law, if we approve it by examining only signed announcements. Therefore, please consider the wider scope of the notification channels that the authorities will address all notifications, not only anonymous ones, but they will examine all reasonable notifications according to their merit, as contained in Amendment D from Pirates, STAN and TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u15	Thank you. Your speech raised one factual remark by Mr Salvetr. Ambassador, please, your two minutes. Otherwise, have a nice noon. We took turns managing the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'll take the liberty of reacting to what I heard here a moment ago, that the person who announces is a man of courage. From my point of view, he's just an informer, and I think we have a lot of experience with that. And as far as any infringement is concerned, anyone who sees it is at risk of participating in it and, as far as serious criminal activity is concerned, I assume he can apply. But please, anonymous reporting is something that just doesn't deserve support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u17	Yes. The next, with a factual remark, will be heard by President Michálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u18	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to drag this out, because we have an important agenda this day, but are there really those announcements that all state authorities, including law enforcement agencies, are getting, like, dozens, hundreds of thousands of announcements, and all of these people are saying they're informers? Without it, no crime in this country would be investigated. And the really false accusations found annually by our system - the Minister will correct me if he does, but I believe that those final judgments on perjury are tens - tens! - and yet there are more criminal reports. So let's not really throw all people in the same basket, it's not right. It's true that there are others here, but we need to keep an eye on the proportions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u19	Thank you. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to agree with my colleague here. Courage? Courage was before 1989. Today you have democracy, as you say, you have freedom of speech, so why are you afraid to sign it? Like me, if I want to say something and I'm an honest citizen, I can't be worried about something happening to me and there's gonna be any damage, so obviously I'm gonna sign for it. Or I'll go, if I see a crime being committed, I'll go, and I'll just behave properly as a proper citizen, file a criminal report, and be signed under it. I don't see why we have to hide. You know, I've been an employee long before at an unnamed multinational firm, and they've also introduced these rumors. And I can tell you... like a guy who doesn't have a helmet, he gets 1,000 crowns of reward and so on. Spray your colleague! And it didn't come across much of a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u21	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Lang will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I just came from the lobby and hit Mr. Michálek. I would like, through you, Mr Michálek, to say: you are a little contradicting here, if you say it is hundreds, thousands of announcements that are anonymous and now fall under the table. In case we accept this here, that even these anonymous matters should be dealt with by law enforcement authorities, well, that's good for God's sake. The organs that are designed to do this will just be overwhelmed and counterproductive if you realize that. And, of course, something else is government and maybe self-government, but private companies, private entities, they already have some internal mechanisms set up. And remember that there are also people in private companies who are satisfied with management, for example, or are dissatisfied, and those who are dissatisfied when they submit some announcements just because their performance was not good and were called off, so then it will be very interesting. So I, with your interpretation that there are thousands of different submissions and that all law enforcement agencies should investigate by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u23	Thank you, that was the last point of fact. We are going back to the debate. Next in line for the general debate is Mr Haas, Mrs Štefanová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much for the floor. In the introduction of three requests, and then, as you may have already recognized me, several arguments in substance. First request - let's not label each other. I believe that I will avoid this 100% from the point of view of those who support the proposed amendments and the broader personal and factual scope of the law fighting corruption, and those who support the bill prepared by the Ministry of Justice, who fully implement the European directive in substance and in law, do not fight corruption. Such a great request - let's not label each other like this. That's the first thing. Second thing - I'm sure I'm asking for the support of the bill in the wording, I've already said it, prepared by the Ministry. Lawyers in this hall will confirm that the bill, as it is prepared, is 100 percent factually, from the point of view of material content and from the point of view of legal accuracy, implements the European directive and we are already running sanctions on the Czech Republic for late implementation, which means that the request is definitely for the approval of the law as prepared by the Ministry. And for factual reasons, for particular factual reasons - not because I do not respect those colleagues or would like to dehonest them, I will ask not to support amendments with one exception, I call it a rescue lasso or a rescue amendment to my colleague and Chairman of our Marek Benda MP. Since there is obviously no single opinion in this House on the substance of the law and its scope, this is the only amendment for which I am asking for any support. The material reasons - the first terminal and then separately to the personal scope and the substantive scope of the law. When approving a number of laws implementing European Union directives in the Czech Republic, which is our obligation to join the European Union, we often complain about it, and now, please, I say and point out in quotation marks, what nonsense does this evil Brusel have on us? The amendments tabled show that we are adding a lot to European regulation ourselves. So let us remember, so often when we curse or complain about the bad European Union in quotation marks, this is an example of a law where we add a significant extension to European regulation. That's the first reason for the clamp. [[12.10 hours]] There are two areas at issue: the issue of extending the personal scope of the law on anonymous submissions and the second level at issue is the extension of the substantive scope of the Act on offenses. Personal application of the law and anonymity. I promised to make a valid argument. I believe that factual reasoning is also a value, unlawful argument. So against enlargement - I am totally against extending the personal scope of the Anonymous Notification Act and my first reason, although I am a lawyer, is not legally valuable, and I will raise it with a rhetorical question. What do you think our country, the Czech Republic, needs in 2023? So I personally think that instead of anonymous reporters, he needs people, and now from any part of the political spectrum, whether from colleagues here or from colleagues here, from people on the street, from people in companies, from people in public institutions who are not afraid to stand up for their opinion, they are publicly articulating that opinion, and they are able to stand up for it. [[He's pointing.]] We can't get rid of the Anonymous. Anonymous is, please, as old as humanity is. Maybe it used to turn out to be by carving on a rock and sending the stone somewhere, or clippings from a newspaper. Anonymous was, are and will be, but please, at least let's not put them on the pedestal of the law. This will be the first law where we build on the pedestal the principle of anonymous announcements in the Czech Republic in 2023. It's completely incomprehensible to me. That's the first, value argument. Second argument - legal. The core of the law is, among other things, a ban on any retaliation measures, and not only against the notifier himself, but who you have the bill read, so you know that this protection applies to a very wide range of people, except the notifier himself to his loved ones, to his companies, in which he is the person controlling, to his colleagues, to his potential employees, to a very wide range of people. So what's the legal logic that we're calling for anonymous notifications when one of the core elements of the law is a ban on any retaliation measures? So either we believe the standard we're preparing, either we believe the ban on retaliation, and then I don't need the legal logic to protect anonymity. And the third is common, and I call it an anti-burocratic argument for myself. Let me show you some numbers. Even after narrowing down private entities, which I am glad that no one is considering extending to private entities anymore, at least I want to believe it, so please, many of us are working here in self-government. I have now begun the fourth term as a senior representative of the community. The municipalities to which the law falls, i.e. the municipalities above 10,000 inhabitants, are about 130 in the Czech Republic. It changes according to how the municipalities are on the border of around 10,000 inhabitants. The NEN contracting authorities, in the national identification I will say register of contracting authorities, are about 1,900. All of these subjects are being thrown at by the small bureaucracy associated with the notification log. So please, let's not do this! The figures from the explanatory memorandum concerning the Ministry of Justice are in the explanatory memorandum. Only at the Justice Department - a demonstration of what's going to happen. We all undoubtedly want to reduce the bureaucracy of this country, but only the creation of a separate department of the Ministry of Justice, so that the Ministry can fulfil the tasks arising from the law, the department is ten new employees, the annual personnel costs of CZK 6 to 7 million and the operating costs of functionality, the maintenance of the notification system, CZK 10 million, the number that is not out of my head, it is hard data from the European Commission when the European Commission did an impact study on the proposal for a directive in 2019. Annual public and private sector costs - and I underline, annual, not one-off costs - linked to whistleblowing - The European Commission, not Haas here privately, you can look it up in the European Commission's legislative materials - are estimated at about EUR 1.35 billion per year. This means that in the European Union, we will throw $1.35 billion into whistleblowing every year of Whistleblowing. This is for anonymity and a set of three arguments: value, legal and anti-Burrocratic. As far as the substance of the law is concerned and the extension to offences is concerned, in principle, this will be merely legal arguments. One: I beg you, even offenses have a substance. If we think we're going to simplify someone, and now I'm trying to look at it with the eyes of the notifier, but also with the eyes of specific employees of public institutions or private institutions who will judge the validity of the law, the transgressions also have a reality. That means the law won't protect anyone who writes anything, and now I'm gonna say it again in quotes, babbling. The notification must also focus on one of the legal categories in question: crimes, special sector standards of the European Union, particularly in the field of finance and economics, and any special regulations. But if we include offenses, the notifier can't write anything, he must fit the notice into one of the facts of the offenses. So the assumption that we're going to expand the substantive scope of the law on offenses and simplify someone's work is completely odd - we're going to get the job done. I'm getting to that very specific argument right away. The treatment of crimes is concentrated in the Czech Republic. We have the facts of the crime - I will say this very simply now, I am looking away from the exceptions - summarised in one single law, in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Correction of offenses: there is no official number, I have discussed this with the Deputy Minister of Justice and there is no specific number. I have tried because we already have a lot of legal information systems nowadays, to find out how many laws, the laws of this country we have the substance of offenses. The laws governing offences in this country are roughly 290 to 340. So both notifiers and employees in particular - these are specific people, we are not Members, they are not non-profit organizations, so specific employees in public institutions, in private companies - will have to judge more than 300 legislation, whether or not the notification is justified. This brings me to the last legal argument on offenses. Misplaced - and now I stress, even negligently mistaken, there is no sign of the fact of intentional guilt - so that even a carelessly misjudged assessment of the merits of the notice by a particular employee will be a misdemeanor for which a particular employee, not any of us, not any of the non-profit organizations I appreciate, but which suggest this wrongness to us, can be punished for misdemeanor that he misjudged or misjudged the validity of the notification. For all these reasons, I beg you, let us support the bill as it was prepared by the Ministry of Justice or with the rescue amendment of my colleague, Marek Benda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u25	Thank you. The next one will be Mrs Štefanová, Mr Dufek will be prepared. In the meantime, I will make one apology: Minister Bartoš apologizes at 12 o'clock for work reasons. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me once again, on behalf of the SPD, comment on the proposed draft law on the protection of the notifier and, in some way, summarize our position. The proposal submitted, as it is, supports the SPD. I have repeatedly expressed myself here in this regard. The important thing is what is important about the proposal, what it actually brings us, and that is the creation of safe channels for announcements, including the possibility of an anonymous announcement. We see this as a positive anti-corruption measure and we strongly support this. This is more or less happening in places where it applies, those mandatory entities, it is happening in some form or to some extent already, so the proposal basically only brings about the obligation and certain rules. As far as the amendments are concerned, the bill presented as such seems sufficient to us. In my opinion, the inclusion of notifications and all offences could lead to a certain overload or excessive overload of the system and, in fact, a complex assessment of reasonableness. Limiting offenses with damage over 100,000 is a variant that is more viable or more suitable for us. As far as anonymity is concerned, I think it's guaranteed here. The proposal also brings the possibility of a completely anonymous announcement. Whether or not that person is going to do this on the basis of the wording of the notification, I would leave it to the debtor. [[12.20 hours]] I see a certain risk of overuse or abuse, it's a bit bizarre. Here I will agree with what Professor Válková said, that the time and experience we will have with this will actually show us which details, specifications and modifications will be needed. As far as the law as a whole is concerned, the SPD has a constant position supporting the fight against corruption, so we will support this proposal as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u27	The last one entered in the general debate is Mr Dufek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u28	I'll be brief, most of this has been said before. The worst part is that all my previous speakers were right in their nature, that's what they do, but it's up to us to decide what kind of prevailing interest is. That is, the first question: Should we adopt the law, should we not adopt the law? Of course, it may also be a question, because I can imagine an owner of such a medium-sized construction company with a hundred employees, who now learns from the e-mail what's going on, he's going to give money for various trainings, he's going to give money for various responsible people, and basically I don't think the law is going to bring anything in this environment. But the prevailing interest is to accept it. And then, of course, there are various efforts to improve the law, which may have some rational basis, but no one will talk me out - and it has also been said in front of me - that providing such sophisticated protection by anonymous announcement is simply not good. I mean, somebody said that basically fighting for the truth and for the courage always hurts in some way. As far as extending this area to all offences is concerned, I am also opposed, because I cannot imagine, if I were to be, for example, the designated person who is investigating a business, whether or not a conduct is an offence, I would not be able to distinguish it with my legal education - perhaps after some big study. So I would like to say for ourselves that we should stick to the ground, support the Government's proposal, or Mr Benda's amendment, which is somehow a reasonable compromise on what we have heard so far on the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u29	Thank you. The Minister for Legislation, Šalomoun, is still reporting for the debate. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u30	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Just a remark, the gros of the modification is a transposition part, which is essentially sectoral from the protection of personal data, the environment, financial things and so on. Those sectors are pretty wide, and this isn't some kind of crime, this is purely illegal, so there's gonna be some misdemeanors in these areas. If not in those other areas, it is, of course, possible, but it would be more conceptual to unite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u31	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. Am I looking in the hall to see if anyone else is reporting for the debate? I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Yes, the Minister will use the right to the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u32	Thank you for the floor. It was all about the law as such. I'm going to try to say this -- hopefully I'll call it a politically realistic sentence. I am listening to the third reading of this bill, and when I look at the House's layout, I consider it to be the fact that if it were not for the institutions of the European Union to be required, it would probably not have come into existence. That means the second fact that those who pass the law today and otherwise wouldn't approve of it will go away a little angry that the law even exists, and then the second part that has the idea that the law is too little, that a lot of things are missing, and they're gonna be pissed off, too. That's the outcome of the debate, and that's probably how it's going to turn out, and as a political realist, I'm saying that all those who wanted the law to be wider today have to take note that it's not in this House of Layouts so that the law exists at all, so we have to go in these things - it's a whole new thing - steps smaller than any longer, and no leap here in this House will, in my opinion, pass. And I repeat: if we were not in danger of being fined by the European Commission, in this House's composition, this law would probably not have come into existence at all. That will be the result of today's debate. As Minister of Justice, who is, of course, a member of the government at the same time, I must insist that our Republic, which is part of the European Union, should not pay the fine. Therefore, I accept the minimum version as the version that needs to be adopted, and please all those who wanted a wider version so that they understand that political realism will lead to us accepting the version in short and well closer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u33	Thank you. I want to ask if there is an interest in the final word from the rapporteur? It's not like that. So we should proceed to the vote on the amendments, and I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u34	Thank you, Mr President. So I'm going to introduce you to the draft voting procedure as adopted by the Constitutional Legal Committee and proposed to the House. The proposal to reject the law has not been filed, we will not vote on it, so first the proposal for legislative technical amendments, if they are submitted - as far as I know, no proposals for legislative technical amendments have been submitted. Voting on the proposal under letter C first. It has already been said that this is Mr Benda's proposal, which includes offences where the upper limit is at least 100,000, so that is C. In the event that this proposal is approved, proposals A are unvoting. Let me just explain, this is a proposal to include all offences, and B1, which is identical. In the event that the C is not approved, the vote will be A and B1. Next, the proposal by e pan Vondráček, where the protection extends to anonymous notifiers. In the event that this proposal is approved, the B2 proposal, which is identical, will not be voted. If the E proposal is not approved, then B2 and then it is the D proposal of Mr Michálek, where anonymous notifiers are only for bodies of a public nature. Finally, the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u35	Thank you for showing me the procedure. This is President Cogan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would only like to propose an amendment to the procedure, and first to vote on point A, these are actually the offences in the whole range, and then on point C, where it is the narrowing of the offences over 100,000. It's more like a logical suggestion that it's going from the wider to the narrower, because if it's causing the unspeakability of other proposals, from this point of view, we see it as more logical and correct for the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u37	Thank you. Anyone else applying for an alternative procedure? It's not like that. We will now resolve this by voting first on the counter-proposal on the rapporteur's proposal, that is, on President Cogan's proposal, and then we would vote on the rapporteur's proposed procedure. I've logged your application for check-out, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has slowed down, so we will vote. And now we will vote on the counter-proposal for the procedure made by President Cogan. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 162, 138 Members have been enrolled, 78 voted in favour. [[from the board: against 2]] The motion was accepted. We will therefore follow the procedure as it has now been modified by President Cogan and by us. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u38	Thank you, so we've modified the procedure proposal. As I said before, legislative technical amendments have not been made, so we will vote on Amendment A. It was handed to Mr. Vondráček, and it actually concerns the extension to all offences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u39	Yes. The plaintiff's position?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u40	The opinion of the Constitutional Committee - does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u41	Yes, so I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 139 Members voted in favour of the 38th vote. The motion was not accepted. Another amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u42	The same proposal is B1, but we do not need to vote because it is the same, so we will vote in proposal C, Mr Benda, where there are actually offences with a maximum limit of CZK 100,000. [[President: Opinion?]] Opinion of the Constitutional Committee - recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u43	And the plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 140 Members were enrolled in the vote number 164, 139, no one voted against. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u44	Thank you. Furthermore, according to the procedure, we will vote on the proposal under letter E, Mr Vondráček, and it is actually an extension of the personal scope and of the anonymous notification. The opinion of the Constitutional Committee - does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u45	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 165 140 Members were voted in favour of 15, against 81. The motion was denied. And I will interrupt you, Mr rapporteur, because Vice Prime Minister Jurečka is voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u46	Thank you. I only wanted one thing. I don't want to be here for some asshole, but here about two votes back, the rapporteur used the wording "this proposal is similar or the same, which is why we don't have to vote for it." It needs to be said that it is either voteable or unvoteable, so that it is really procedural and formally correct. [[Unintelligible.]] It might have been a proposal that was unvoting and let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I noted that. I wanted to ask you the same question at the end of the procedure. I did not want to interfere with it, but I agree that it should then be made clear to the microphone that B1 is unvoted, so that there would be no problem that one of the amendments was not voted on. The rapporteur, if you will explain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u48	Well, I'm sorry, and I'm gonna use it right now, because the next one was B2, which is identical, and I'm saying, that's unvoteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u49	Yes, so B1 and B2 we have unvoted suggestions and we will continue our approved procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u50	Another proposal is the proposal under letter D, Mr Michálek, where it is expanding, or it is proposed that anonymous notifiers be obliged to introduce the protection of bodies of a public nature, as has already been said, contracting authorities, but also other bodies which obtain most of the revenues from contracting authorities and firms where they have over 25 per cent. [[unintelligible]] The opinion of the Constitutional Committee - did not take any opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 166, 141 Members were voted in favour, 42, against 81. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u52	We have exhausted all the amendments tabled and we can proceed to the vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-21-ps2021-063-06-005-114.u53	Yes, thank you. I ask if it really was voted on all the proposals. If so, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of notifiers, according to the House of Press 352, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I'm still looking at the news desk, see if... We're good to go. Great. So the resolution was read. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 167, 141 Members were enrolled, 137 voted in favour. The motion was accepted. And I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the proposal. I thank both the rapporteur and the petitioner, and that concludes the debate on paragraph 114. I will make four apologies: Mr Brož apologizes from 11.30 pm for business reasons, Mr Metnar Lubomír from 12.30 pm for work reasons, Mrs Ochodnická Martina from 12.30 pm for work reasons and Mr Smetana Karel from 10 to 12 pm for work reasons. We'll continue our program. The next item is point 115. This is about
