ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u1	125. Report on the long-term sustainability of public finances (September 2022) /German press 308/ This House Press has discussed the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution has been delivered as House Press 308/1. And I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Jarmila Levko, inform us of the committee's deliberations and make a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u2	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me just be very brief on the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances of September 2022, which was prepared by the National Budget Board. The report notes that the Czech public finances are in significant imbalance, including due to inadequate dislodgement of fiscal policy during the covid-19 pandemic, also as a result of a reduction in income tax from 1. 1. 2021 and, last but not least, due to the problematic treatment of fiscal rules as a result of two amendments to the budgetary rules. I mean Law No. No 207/2020 and No 207/2020 609/2020. There have been improvements compared to the previous National Budget Board report, but only very minor ones. These conclusions remain the same, namely that if medium-term imbalances are not eliminated soon, the debt ratio can reach the threshold of the debt brake in 2028 and then in 2042 the debt would become unsustainable, the Czech Republic would fall into a debt trap and in 50 years the debt would amount to 296 percent of the gross domestic product. That is why, according to the National Budget Board report, it is necessary, firstly, to make significant adjustments to the revenue and expenditure side of public budgets, and secondly, to start pension reform as soon as possible due to a strong trend in ageing population, while the longer it begins with pension reform, the more costly it will be, and the greatest burden that the younger generation born in this millennium will bear on permanent delaying reform. And let me mention one more number that may not be the most important thing in the report, but I was surprised. The report states that the average person born between 2000 and 2004 is, for example, my children, who will receive CZK 12.7 million more from public budgets in their entire lives than they will take into it. So I think these are alarming numbers. However, this report on the long-term sustainability of public finances predicts what will happen if nothing happens, or if budgetary policy remains in the trend of previous years. And the good news is, we have a chance to change that. This National Budget Council report is from September 2022, and I am very pleased that the draft consolidation package and pension reform are already on the table today. So much for the content of the report. It remains to be added that the Committee on Budgets discussed the report at its meeting on 5 October 2022 and adopted the following resolutions: "Budgetary Committee after the opening words of Jan Pavel's National Budget Board member, Jarmila Levko's intelligence report and the debate of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Notes the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances, September 2022; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances, September 2022; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic" - which I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u3	I thank you, rapporteur, and I will then ask you when I open up a detailed debate to refer to this resolution. I am opening a general debate and asking if anyone is applying? Please, Mrs Knechtová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present a brief report to Parliament's press No 308 on the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances of September 2022 for the ANO club. The National Budget Board's report evaluates the situation of Czech public finances both in the medium and long term. In the first case, the key indicator of the current structural balance, in the second projected development of public debt over the fifty-year period, which modelly shows the extent of long-term imbalances. The degree of urgency, the solution to both imbalances, is demonstrated by the National Budget Board on the estimate of the year when there is a threat of impact on the so-called debt brake in unchanged revenue and expenditure policies. Czech public finances are currently in a significant imbalance, which was created by a combination of medium-term imbalances and long-term non-solving of the future effects of ageing population. By 2022, public finances had entered a significant structural imbalance, the major reduction of which in the following years has unfortunately not been indicated by government documents so far. Of course, the effort to fiscal consolidation is complicated by a new crisis, the primary driver of which is the attack by the Russian Federation on Ukraine. Thus, new spending requirements are imposed on public budgets, with an increase in revenue generated by high inflation not enough to cover them. The September 2002 report shows a very slight improvement in the medium-term sustainability of Czech public finances compared to the 2021 report, when the modeled or projected point of impact on the debt brake shifted by several years. [[{\\cHF]] At the same time, however, it should be noted that this slight improvement is mainly due to the update of economic data and better management for 2021 compared to expected results than to the change in the structural position of Czech public finances. Unfortunately, there is no improvement in long-term imbalances, which is due to the absence of major changes in the most expensive and, at the same time, the most demographicly sensitive expenditure blocks, which are mainly pension and health systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u5	Thank you, too, Madame. I said, anybody else? Please, Madame Schillerová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we come to discuss the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances, which was published in September 2022. The report was therefore drawn up during a period when the economy had already recovered from the immediate consequences of the covid-19 pandemic, but also after a significant migration wave and a negative supply shock resulting from price increases, especially energy and gas prices. The National Budget Board's report does not aim to show where public finances will be located in 2072. The report presents possible scenarios for future developments if current economic policy does not change. Therefore, it is not worth overestimating this report, but we should also not underestimate it. If this report clearly declares something to us, it concludes that the trajectories of economic policy are not optimally set today. The long-term main problem of public finances is now clear and is called demography. We know according to the published data yesterday that the population of the Czech Republic increased by 23 100 to 10.85 million during the first quarter of the current year, but only a positive balance of foreign migration, i.e. an increase of 31 300, was provided by the population itself. In this positive balance, the citizens of Ukraine continued to dominate, especially those with temporary protection. Unfortunately, the natural change has decreased to the population of the Czech Republic by a relatively fundamental 8 200. [[18.30 hours]] The year-on-year decline in birth rate, which began at the beginning of 2022, continued this year. During January to March, 22,000 children were born, 2 700 less year on year, i.e. 11 percent. And in this I see one of the fundamental messages of the report on long-term sustainability. We need to create a suitable environment for young people in the Czech Republic, we need to promote a pro-family policy, we need to encourage young people in this country to want to start families here, and that is exactly the step in which the current five-calice is completely failing. I don't see any commitment to national politics. The mood of consumers, i.e. households, is at its historical minimum during the reign period. The birth rate of 11 percent is right about this. Who will start their family at a time when they are getting into major financial problems, when the citizens of the Czech Republic are facing an unprecedented decline in real wages, when it is one of the highest of all OECD countries, when the government wants to multiplicate the decline in these real income by 5 percent in the period of falling inflation by the general government's flat-rate wage reductions in the public sector? I'll answer you. Nobody. Once again, the birth rate is down 11 percent. A one-off pandemic shock will not affect the trajectory of public finances over a long period of time by far as well as poor economic policy. The number of old-age pensioners is expected to grow in 2058 when there should be approximately 3.1 million. This is the period when births reach 35 years today, i.e. in the period of their greatest labour market forces. The current birth rate decline of 11 % is thus directly related to the situation in 2058. The proportion of the population aged 21 to 64 per capita over 65 may fall around that period up to 1.66 active workers per pensioner. Again, I ask, where is this pro-family policy to reduce the effects of this negative development? It is here that I see the most important long-term and negative legacy of the current cabinet, a legacy that will certainly catch up with us in the future. Moreover, and here I will repeat myself with what I said last week, the five-calice is unable to submit pension reform. What we started here to discuss and discuss at first reading 13 hours is not a pension reform, it is just a pure parametric adjustment that is being discussed because of the inability of the Minister of Finance Stanjura to draw up a real budget. The time for real pension reform was at the turn of the millennium, when strong years were still in the work process long enough and when we had extraordinary privatization revenues to be used for this purpose, tens, hundreds of billions. Once again, the direct responsibility of the five-calice parties, which is clearly linked to the sustainability of public finances. In addition to the fact that the five coalitions are unable to gradually consolidate reasonably so that they do not jeopardise economic growth, by the way, we have one of the worst from developed countries and again it is something that will cost us a lot in the future. Moreover, they still completely discredited the budgeting process. We have reached a period that in the middle of the year we have exhausted the entire budget deficit of the state budget. Moreover, in the year when there was no emergency and energy prices, which were an unpredictable variable of budgeting, are developing more optimistic than we expected. In addition, Minister Stanjura postponed the part of the deficit that was to be in the state budget into state funds, namely the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the draft state budget for the future year will be designated by the Prime Minister as technical and official material and so on and so on. Look at Twitter, the father of the founder of the TOP 09, the former Minister of Finance, unless you trust me, who clearly confirms there that no official will ever allow himself to submit a draft budget, send it to the government without the Minister of Finance having verified it. Plus, he's in there, and I'm confirming it, it's true that he's always consulted with the Prime Minister. That's absolutely true, so no technical and administrative material. Please stop lying. Today, we need to implement gradual sound consolidation, thinking about our future, promoting economic growth and creating a pro-family policy. This is a clear and obvious reference that I read in the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances. Unfortunately, the five-wheelers have made it clear that in a year and a half of government is incapable of doing so. The only thing she has shown is the discreditation of the budgetary procedure, which is already clear today, and due to this budgetary policy, interest on debt will grow in the future, because the Czech Republic is becoming a distrustworthy partner. Just the last few numbers. I mean, we did it once despite what you're saying here and what you're talking about here clearly and obviously not really - we proved that we were able to lead the Republic to surplus state budgets, and unlike a number of finance ministers from the 30-year history of the five-wheeled parties, we had two finance ministers who had budget surpluses on YES. We took over the Republic from the government, I think, when we took over the Ministry of Finance, which dramatically increased debt from 30% to 44.4 percent of GDP. By the way, Petr Fiala and Zbyněk Stanjura were part of this government, and so today history only repeats itself. We managed to reduce our debt to 30%, came a pandemic, yet we left the Ministry of Finance with less debt than when we entered the Ministry of Finance. This is exactly the path that needs to be taken today and one of the basic conclusions of the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u7	Do I want to ask if anyone is joining the general debate? Otherwise, have a nice evening, we took turns managing the meeting. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word? It's not. We will proceed to the debate in detail, which has not yet been applied for. I ask if there is an interest in entering into a detailed debate? It's not like that. I also conclude a detailed debate. I assume that, even at the moment, there is no interest in the final word, but I will ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u8	Thank you for the floor. So the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of Parliament's report on the long-term sustainability of public finances in September 2022'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-009-125.u9	Thank you for presenting the motion for a resolution. In the meantime, I'm the one who got the gig so that the co-workers from the lobby could arrive. We all know what we're going to vote on. The resolution was read by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 379 was signed by 156 Members, in favour of 118, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. [[18.40 hours]] That's how we've exhausted this point, and I'm done discussing point 125. The next item in our programme is point number
