ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u1	Agenda We would now proceed to the appointment of the 55th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7, the Rules of Procedure Act, the House shall decide only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I now have applications with priority rights on the agenda. The first is Chairman Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman. Next will be President Radim Fiala. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. [[16.10 hours]] Prime Minister, you have the floor. Before you begin to speak, colleagues, please leave the meeting room in case of important discussions, and let the talks take place in the foyer. And I would ask you to keep your voice down so that President Okamura can make his speech. [[Members of the coalition and partly the ANO movement leave the hall, as well as the entire government. The others are having so much fun.]] Once again, I beg you to remain calm, colleagues. I apologise, Mr President, for your patience before colleagues and colleagues calm down. Prime Minister, is that enough for you? [[Member of Okamura: No.]] It's not enough. [[The President is ringing.]] It doesn't mean we're done, the bell means asking for peace in the hall. Gentlemen in the right side of the hall and colleagues in the left side of the hall, please be quiet. Mr President, I think you can start your speech. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here on the second day when the Fialův Government is trying to rob all pensioners in the Czech Republic, i.e. all recipients of disability, old age, widow and orphan's pensions about the law given by the Valorization and the SPD movement clearly promised and clearly declared that we would do our utmost to prevent the adoption of this government bill, which the Fialův Government Coalition, i.e. Pirates, ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 from stealing the promised pensioner's money. The SPD movement fundamentally disagrees with this. Pensioners, all pension recipients, were on average to receive about CZK 1,700 on average from June onwards and the Fialův government decided to rob them of an average of CZK 1,000 and wants to deny them the money. And as we have now witnessed, you have now voted hard, unconstitutionally and contrary to the House's Rules of Procedure, contrary to the House's Rules of Procedure Act, that this will still take place in the so-called legislative emergency, despite the great opposition of the SPD. And since you're already in such a hurry, you're already in such a hurry to rob those retirees and to put more tens of billions of dollars in Ukrainian to give tens of billions to solar barons so you can buy the most expensive American weapons, you just threw all the pension recipients overboard. So, of course, I'm not just gonna leave it here, and I'm gonna keep defending the nearly 3 million pension recipients in the House in the Czech Republic, and I'm gonna prevent it, even if I have to stay here completely alone, I'm gonna defend the nearly 3 million pension recipients and their families against robbing them to the last drop of blood, to the last breath. And I'm just going to point out here that you're even - you're borrowing even abroad to send money to Ukraine, to send money to some of your destructive projects, like you want to introduce censorship in the Czech Republic, and so on, so I'm going to have to explain to you again today, over and over again, that pension recipients are one of the key groups of citizens for the SPD. We appreciate all pension recipients in the Czech Republic, almost 3 million of them. We firmly, the SPD stands on the side of all the decent citizens of the Czech Republic, which your Fialův government throws overboard. Here, I'd like to remind you of the pirát' performance. A moment ago, the chairman of the Pirates MP Jakub Michálek, who still warmed up his soup with the fact that he wants to throw, the pirát, that he throws all the pension recipients overboard, and we simply disagree. On the contrary, we want the elderly to get their money. And now we're at the point where I'm supposed to comment on the agenda, so, of course, I'm going from the beginning to the point. To begin with, the SPD just doesn't agree with us discussing this item on the agenda here. We don't understand why the government coalition here is suggesting at all costs that you want to rob all pension recipients. Most vehemently, as I have noticed, today the President of the STAN, Mr Cogan of Nova Paka, fought against this. This Member, Mr Cogan of Nova Paka for the STAN movement, must be said publicly, who has been most actively opposed to all pension recipients here today. Yeah, I thought I hadn't heard Mr. Cogan's name in a year, but now we know that the STAN movement has become the leader today that you are against all pension recipients. This is Mr. Josef Cogan, a Member of Nova Paka, who has taken over the relay for the government coalition that you want to steal almost 3 million of our citizens, you want to steal their promised money. Well, to be fair, Mr. Výborný of the KDU-ČSL - the people's, when I watched it today, they're also the ones who are doing absolutely their best here to rob the elderly. So, folks, STAN is, too, ODS, I've already talked about Pirates and TOP 09 - Mrs. Pekarová Adamová. Here we know, she even recommended that retired 68-year-olds find another job. That is absolutely incredible arrogance. If we take it, it's like hitting it in the finals. And I, to get to the point, of course, that is why I am speaking on the agenda at the beginning of my speech. I just, we just, SPD, we don't agree with this agenda of the meeting, we don't support this agenda of the meeting, and now, of course, I'm going to explain in detail why we won't support it. This is an insidious attack on people who worked honestly for the Czech state for decades, paying taxes and compulsory insurance. It's a government five-caliber attack on disabled people, widowed citizens, and orphans. We'll never accept that in the SPD. In our opinion and in the opinion of many legal experts, the Government's procedure is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, because not only do you want to shorten this government proposal in a shortened negotiation and in a state of legislative emergency, which is reserved only for emergencies such as large-scale natural disasters, epidemics or threats to the country's safety, but that does not apply here, because you yourself, your government, have caused the economic damage, and now you take it as an argument that you want to rob pensioners of their money. So you just don't. The solution would be to leave your government, which caused the economic damage, and not to rob the elderly for money. Once again, the word of a pensioner is often confused by the fact that it is only the beneficiaries of old age pensions, but again and again I repeat that by this draft law of the government coalition, you rob, you rob all pension recipients, that is, you rob even disabled fellow citizens who were born or who had a disability during their lifetime, and you rob even orphans, widows and widowers. That means, you're stealing from that money, when you want to reduce the law on valorisation from June, from June to the endless time, you're basically trying to reduce the legal, the law on valorization, so you've hit the very most necessary citizens, and of course we don't agree with this. Here I would like to stress that the Czech Statistical Office has already announced inflation on 10 February 2023, on the basis of which pensions should automatically be compared to all Czech citizens, but you have decided to retroactively on 15 February 2023 to propose a law that will re-retroagulate the pensions, so that you will change the law in advance so that you can deprive the pensioners of the money. [[16.20 hours]] On the other hand, as I was saying, you've set up a new office here for a billion crowns, an unlimited number of deputies to simply stab your fellow party, government and political traders, so you're sucking up, you're just sucking up public money as it goes. You are going completely, completely on the verge of milking the state budget, or citizens' money in your favor, and robbing our citizens of that money, plus our most needy citizens, who are paying it, but who have paid it, who have paid it out of their taxes, from these taxes is currently financed by the state budget, which you are robbing in your favour in this way. Well, of course, the media asked me today, saying that the Fialův government is arguing that you don't have CZK 19 billion to valorize pensions. Well, it's a lie, and I threw it out right away, and it was clear because you only put over 50 billion crowns on Ukraine, and now you're saying you don't have 19 billion for our citizens? You pay more than 30 billion to the solar barons, and because of your government, we have expensive energy, although we are an exporter of cheaply produced energy, electricity in the Czech Republic. You have given such high price ceilings that we basically have some of the most expensive energy in Europe. That past year, yes, we even had the most expensive energy in Europe because of your government. So you're just gonna walk out, walk out on these citizens, in an incredible way, so you can redistribute them to God knows where. Instead of renovating, modernising the Gripens, Secretary of War Jana Černochová from the ODS is already shaking to buy the most expensive F-35 fighters in America for 100 billion, and that's just a purchase, then maintenance in tens of billions, even though the Czech budget doesn't have the money for it, even though people already, millions of people are basically in quotation marks on the pavement, so that's totally unacceptable for us. Of course, I would point out here that because of the fact that you are not dealing with the cost and that the Czech Republic has more expensive food than, for example, Poland, Germany and so on, so you chose, on the very same price you chose because of the higher VAT, so you chose CZK 137 billion more and instead of redistributing it to the citizens, so you give the money to all kinds of stupidities and to the necessary expenses, but you still want to rob the pensioners. This means that it is absolutely unacceptable for us also from other points of view, because, for example, as almost 1 million Czech seniors currently have a problem with insufficient income and with the payment of the cost of their basic livelihood, and according to the study of the project Invisible up to 889 000 Czech citizens are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who are unable to cover their livelihoods in the long term, but at the same time they are falling through a system of state social assistance, mainly because of its complexity, difficult accessibility and ignorance from the authorities. And here, of course, it is the totally incompetent and incompetent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, President of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, who is openly asserting here, goes openly against the pensioners, and promotes here... It's the people's people who are also promoting it as one of the most active ones here, which we've already talked about, that you take away the elderly from their money, and all the pension recipients. We simply do not accept this under the SPD, and we will never accept it, so that the seniors, after a lifetime of honest work, live in undignified conditions and debts, or undergo humiliating procedures for social benefits. On the contrary, as an SPD in the case of seniors, first of all, we advocate the adoption of the law, and we have already filed it for the SPD, it is the SPD Act on minimum income at the rate of the current minimum wage for all who have fulfilled the legal conditions of age and periods of pension insurance, and from that amount to merit. We also want to set up a fair remuneration of pensions that would not discriminate against low-income seniors. But the members of the Fialův Five-calice government have repeatedly blocked our proposals by refusing to discuss them, so, of course, here it is a clash of the SPD, of the opposition SPD, and of the five-calice government of Petr Fiala, who wants to rob the pensioners. You threw them overboard, all the pension recipients, and on the contrary, the SPD is fighting for decent citizens here. That means, those are the reasons why, at first, I'm here to name the main reasons why the SPD is promoting... We here, by all means, with all possible legal means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will defend decent citizens. When I read more than seven hours after yesterday's performance then the reaction of the government MPs, mostly the anonymous ones, so unfortunately I forgot the names because I heard their names for the first time, because they had not yet appeared, and there was a Member of Letocha - the name I heard for the first time, under the STAN movement - who most actively attacked me there that I was defending the pensioners so that they would not be robbed, and he, on the contrary, that Member of Letocha of STAN, is for the pensioners to be robbed to take their money. It's the STAN movement. So I remembered that there was a Mr. Letocha, some MP. He was very active here in order for all pensioners to be deprived of money. Then there was another MP for STAN, and I still can't remember his name, that's the one from Munich Hradiště for STAN, now I don't know his name, because he only showed up here once before, when he attacked me again for defending decent citizens so that the Fialův government wouldn't rob them of money, and he wants to rob them of the money, so now I've forgotten his name, unfortunately - I may remember - because it's the kind of MPs who here directly openly... the STAN movement, that's the kind of mafia project we see here. Are you done with the dozimetr? Are your fellow party members released from custody yet? What happened to stealing money from the Prague Transport Company? We haven't heard that from you guys yet, so maybe that's a good thing to say. But what I remember about that Mr. Letocha, he said on the Internet that he needs a vomit bag when he hears my speech, where I'm defending you from robbing seniors. And he wants to throw up when I'm defending seniors and pension recipients, okay? Because he wants the elderly to be robbed, this Mr. Letocha from the STAN movement. So this needs to be stressed, what has been said here, how they approach the issue, the nearly 3 million citizens, the members of the STAN movement. Here Mr. Cogan has been actively expressing that he is in favour of robbing pensioners, Mr. Letocha here, unfortunately I can't remember the name one thing - I know it's the MP from Munich Hradiště, but maybe I can remember - he was also this active here for robbing pensioners. But he's got a beef with me, I noticed, because he has no other subject than attacking the SPD, so Okamura, Okamura, but there's no positive design, so these are the proverbs - the dogs bark and the caravan goes on. Of course, the SPD is the caravan, so I'm used to it. There's always this anonymous guy screaming something, but I don't even know who it was exactly. So that's how it is. But let us get back to the point, because today the situation is that a million Czech citizens already live below the poverty line. Their numbers have increased significantly during the current government. The decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is the most significant of all Member States of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Yeah, I know who it was, MP Lochman's name is, MP Lochman of the STAN movement. He's the one who was attacking me after my performance last night, when I spent seven hours defending the rights of pension recipients, and that MP Lochman, too. Lochman's name was Letocha, and Cogan, all the STAN movement. And that's what I remembered after last night, that those are the three names that were the most recently fought last night for robbing senior citizens. It's the STAN movement. I just remembered the name. Letocha's MP is against 3 million pension recipients, Lochman and Mr Cogan, who were the most in favour here. And a Member of the Výborný KDU-ČSL, of course others, maybe some prefer not to be clever about it, but the government MPs are 108 and they are all on the same boat. [[16.30 hours]] We saw it a moment ago when you were declaring a state of legislative emergency, or so that you could rob those pensioners as quickly as possible to get through it. We were against it, we disagree, so I noticed this after last night, who was still the most active on the government side, from the government parties, and Mr. Michálek of the pirát, I have already talked about this, here they have been hoarding the most for robbing those pensioners as soon as possible and at the same time as possible. So we just don't agree with it. Now, let's go to what I'm going to talk about here today, because I'm saying again, we're going to fight with all our strength, the SPD, and we've also announced it for the rights of our pensioners. I thought, after my speech yesterday, that it would be a little clearer to some government MPs and ministers, that it just wasn't possible for you to take the pensioner's money in this way. So I'm gonna take another piece of evidence to my hand, see how I'm gonna take this place apart. At this point, I have some 200 pages here, and I think my interpretation needs to be a little bit more extensive after yesterday. I think we should really say what the situation is and what the situation is with the social security of pensioners in the Czech Republic. I was interested in one Bachelor's thesis, it is from the University of West Bohemia, it is presented by a Mr. Tomáš Petružálek, the head of the Bachelor's thesis is Mgr et Bc Ilona Kostadinovová. I think this is one of those jobs where - whether we agree with it or not - where we need to remember, then remind the governments what the situation is. "Because of population ageing and increasing social security expenditure, the pension system of the Czech Republic has been extensively discussed in recent years by politicians, the media and the general public." I would point out here that, of course, I'm claiming that we're building this bill and that we're trying to throw you a pitchfork so that you can't get away with robbing old people. Of course it is. Obstructions are in line with democratic principles here in the House, which you are violating here, are a legitimate part of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and it is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. You bend this place your way, but that's the way it is. That is why I say again, I openly declare that the SPD MP is trying to delay this law in such a way that it is not accepted at all if possible and that the pensioners will receive the promised money from June, with which everyone is counting on them to receive it, and you want to take it away from them now. So "increasing the cost of social security for pensioners is also the largest item in the state budget" But that's not negative, that's true. Of course, citizens have the right to have their work done or to meet legal conditions when I talk about disabled, widowed and orphaned pensions, to simply count on the state to give them the pensions afterwards. That's okay, and that's right. "Politics often talk about the need for reform of social insurance and pension systems and, of course, there have been various attempts in the past, there has been a discussion about reform of the pension system," but both the Babišův government and the Petr Fiala government have not implemented any reform. They were just talking about it. "In the Czech Republic, about 3.5 million pensioners now receive any type of pension, the most of which are people in old-age pensions with a total of about 2.4 million pensioners. Together with the ageing population, it is necessary to secure revenue, or the state budget, so that, of course, those dignified pensions can be paid." There are no decent pensions so far, especially the low ones, for pensions 8, 10, 12,000, but the Fialův government supports it. The Fialův government is encouraging people to live here and not have decent lives, and the SPD is against it. We simply disagree, we want people to have decent pensions. Here is the bachelor's work, from which I will receive information today, and I will transfer them here to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, which aims to analyse social security law and the pension system of the Czech Republic in the first part. The author explains the basic concepts of social security law, its brief history and the current adjustment of the pension system. It is precisely the explanation of basic concepts that the reader is to help to focus on the complex regulation that the pension system is now governed by. The second part describes the process of granting a pension. The trial begins with a request for Czech Social Security Administration if the applicant lodges an appeal against the decision, it can end with the Supreme Administrative Court. The author devoted the last part of his bachelor's thesis to the description of the Slovak pension system, which went through the reform in 2005, and subsequently compared it with the pension system in the Czech Republic. So let's start with social security law. "Social security law - the concept of social security is probably taken from Russian language and only appeared in the 20th century. The concept was preceded by poor care, for at first private initiatives, such as churches and municipalities, were devoted to the care of the poor, and until the development of time the state began to deal with the poor. The social policy of the State can be defined as a continuous and purposeful effort to change or to maintain and operate its social system. Recently, the objective of international law has been to ensure appropriate conditions for the development of all individuals. The social state theory has had a major impact on the development of law, social security law and its subsequent legislation. The theory is implemented through social and health insurance, subsequent state support and through citizens. Help may not only be financial, but also business and service. In 1948, on the basis of the model of national insurance formulated by William Beveridg in Czechoslovakia, Law No. 99/1948 Coll., on National Insurance, which led the social state to begin to form on our territory. We refer to the law of social security as a set of substantive and procedural norms that govern individual social security systems. This is legislation regulating material security and services which the State provides or provides to needy persons, for example because of older age, adverse health status or unemployment. [[16.40 hours]] We place social security law in public law. The State obliges private entities to make part of their profits on social and health insurance and, in the event of non-compliance, impose sanctions. So the state has a stronger position. Another sign of public law is the exercise of public authorities, especially administrative ones. The local authorities also intervene in social security law. However, we will also find elements of private law in social security law. This is, for example, a social service contract, which is also regulated by public law, for example, a provider must bear control of the quality of its services. The social security authorities in the Czech Republic are the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Czech Social Security Administration, the District Social Security Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence." I'm the only one who's gonna keep giving such a slip over and over and over again, even for those citizens who look at my performances all the time, so that they know that I'm defending myself here, and I'm pulling through and preventing the government from robbing more than 3 million pension recipients, of which less than 3 million are old-age pensioners, and then there are disabled, widowed and orphans, so I'm trying my best to defend myself on behalf of the SPD in order for the Fialův Government to rob these pension recipients of the promised valorisation. I'm going to give this slip regularly to make it clear why I'm here, why I'm trying my best, as always, to fight for decent citizens. And I see once again how the members of the government coalition will mock me. They will laugh at me for defending more than 3 million citizens here, as they mocked me and rudely and vilely attacked me by members of the STAN Letocha movement, Lochman, then today I noticed, even Mr Cogan, also fought actively for robbing pensioners, still actively, and here Mr Michálek of pirát, Mr Výborný of KDU-ČSL, here today most actively and last night they fought for the pensioners to be robbed as quickly as possible, but it is a whole five-wheeler, so it is. So, of course, I remembered these Members because they appointed me on social media explicitly last night, so, of course, I'm going to name them now constantly and preferably by the end of the term, so that everyone can remember who's acting. So whoever's naming me, I'm gonna name him, and I think it's 50-50, and it's totally fine, and it's gonna be that way for the future. Let us look at the development of social security law. [[From the right, someone is reacting from the bench.]] I don't have a problem with it, I don't have a problem with it. "The development of social security law - the history of social security law is very old and rich." Yeah, I was named Minister Válek, but that was a pretty smiling poke, so I'm gonna pass on Minister Válek because it was more like a poke. He also insists that seniors be robbed, but it was such a nudge, so it doesn't make sense, it wasn't anything specially wrong, personal. But here with those members of the STAN, there it was really very clear how they speak about us who are fighting for it for the recipient of pensions in the Czech Republic. So I just wanted to say that I can distinguish it when it's a personal attack, and I can distinguish it when it's a political poker. Let's go to the development of social security law. "The history of social security law is very old and rich. We can already see its foundations in tribal communities. Here, strong individuals provided protection for old and sick tribe members instead of expelling them and leaving them to the mercy of the neighborhood. We can also see social security law in slave states, especially in Roman society. The emperor ordered rich citizens to give their slaves bread, which led at least to the basic social security and food security for the slaves. In the Czech Republic, we can watch social security law in the Middle Ages with beggars. Only incompetent individuals who were granted a patent from 1661 could be begged. Mostly the church cared for the sick. In 1868, however, all municipalities were ordered to care for the poor who were granted home law, since then the municipalities had to provide accommodation and food for the beggars. The main milestone in the development of social security law, which led to the development of social insurance as we know it today, is 1883. In that year in Germany Otto von Bismarck ordered compulsory sickness insurance, followed by accident insurance and in 1889 old-age and disability insurance. After World War I in the then Czechoslovak Republic, Law No. 221/1924 Coll., on Insurance of Employees for Disease, Disability and Old Age. Hospital insurance was carried out by sickness insurance companies, disability insurance and old-age insurance provided by the Central Social Insurance Corporation. The insurance provided benefits in the case of sickness, maternity, invalidity, old age, widowing and orphanage.' I just remembered one more thing. I was performing on Prima on live TV a moment ago, and the editor asked me by the argument of the Fialův's five-calice government that the House's meeting day is worth 5 million crowns and that the fact that Okamura is fighting for you not to rob a pensioner by 19 billion, the Fialův's government coalition - that's always the Pirates' argument, but I don't know, it's about the entire government five-callice - so you're putting on a bowl of scales that I'm trying to stop you from robbing more than 3 million pensioners, and you're going to take away 19 billion, and next year you're even talking about 50 billion, so your MPs are giving it like I'm trying to prevent it, that I'm trying to rob the pensioners, that the House is supposedly worth 5 Okamura a day. So you're putting more than 3 million recipients of all kinds of pensions on the balance bowl and 19 billion you want to rob this year, you're putting it on the balance bowl, with the House's day costing 5 million crowns? Because you want to go home? That you want to sleep at home? 'Cause you're gonna rob them and take it easy? Well, that's incredible, the argument made by members of the Fialův Five-Calice government. Well, that's really... If there's anything to puke about, it's this, because the lives of people who can't help themselves, it just has a completely different value. How can you even compare that? I mean, that's completely unbelievable! So I'm stressing again, yes, the House's negotiations are worth something, but your bill will cost all pension recipients 19 billion, and that's what I'm here on behalf of the SPD trying to prevent, and I'm going to do it here. I'm gonna fight to the last breath so you can't rob an old man. Of course, as you bent the House's Rules of Procedure a while ago, when there was the first passage of this House meeting, when we were supposed to discuss whether it was possible to vote on this in a legislative emergency, you normally completely cut off the legitimate rights of more than sixty Members who were enrolled in the debate, you did not allow them to speak, even did not allow proposals for voting to fall here. So you're already bending the Rules of Procedure completely to the strength of your own, just to steal billions as quickly as you can, the 19 billion they're supposed to get. They're supposed to get 34 billion, but you want to cut the valorization by 19 billion so you can send back, like, Ukrajinec. [[16.50 hours]] I heard that somewhere too, the former Ambassador to the Czech Republic... what's his name? That's the Perebyjnis who defended the banners. He defended the banners! Take a good look at Wikipedia, now look at it, government MPs. But we don't have to, Wikipedia, Wikipedia is not a verified source, but he sent a written letter to Czech Television in the past - a written letter to Czech Television when Czech Television wanted to broadcast a film to Katyna, and sent a letter to Czech Television not to broadcast it. The Polák protested, of course. The Polák, on the other hand, want the film to be broadcast, to talk about the horrors of the bandere. And this Perebyjnis, this favorite and lover of yours, defended the banners that they were fighting for Ukraine's independence. So killing Volyňské Čech, murdering our fellow citizens, the same blood is supposed to be fine. And this guy got into me last night. I don't know what the Ukraine is -- it's so arrogant, it has a political representation. What do they even want to comment here and even pick up on the political situation in the Czech Republic? And he got into me when I criticized the Ukrainianization of the Czech Republic. And that's what I stand for, because the Fialův government has done it here, and I really dare say that millions of citizens are already dissatisfied with what you've shown here, how you've Ukrainianized Czech society, it's too much, you've overdone it. People don't often feel like they do in the Czech Republic, but like in Ukraine somewhere, and services for our citizens are getting worse, like doctors, I hear it all the time - people write me how it looks in the waiting room and the like, but also elsewhere, shopping centers and so on. So this guy wrote about me when I said it yesterday and quite rightly, when I repeated it on Prima today, because I stand firm in my opinions, so he got into me that he said who criticizes the Ukrainianization of Czech society and what you're showing that you want to rob Czech pensioners at the expense of your other priorities, so that he said it was a sign of collaboration, he wrote. Well, they're out of their minds. And that this Perebyjnis did not comment on the article that was on the News, by the way, on the List, Amnesty International, that Ukrainian MPs have bought a record number of luxury cars since the beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, and it seems to be in a corrupt environment. Amnesty International said that since last February, since the start of the conflict in Ukraine, Ukrainian MPs in Kiev have bought rolls-royce, Mercedes in AMG editing, cars for tens of millions, and that they buy it, that they have it written on relatives, those cars, and they pay in cash. That's great! For example, this could not be possible in the Czech Republic, it would not be possible in the Czech Republic, it is probably okay in Ukraine. So this guy, this guy -- well, I'd like to say a little tougher word he's saying -- so instead of dealing with corruption in Ukraine, in Kiev, it's obviously safe, as I see, when they're buying Rolls-royce and Mercedes AMG Ukrainian MPs, God knows what kind of money they're paying cash and writing to relatives, instead of focusing on these problems, instead of focusing on why President Zelenskyj is on the Pandora Papers list, and the companies, and this took place in the Ukrainian parliament before the fall before the outbreak of the conflict -- you know, certainly many of you, wrote it also News, by the way List, mainstream. Yes, Okamura didn't make that up, that was before the conflict. So, apparently, the Ukrainian president was stealing from his own country instead of paying taxes on his activities in Ukraine, making money out of it and being in Pandora Papers, making money into tax havens. It's even written in that document - it's a novelty article, you can look it up - that the companies have signed over to their wife and registered in Belize, a Central American tax haven. So instead of making this Perebyjnis stop being rude and solving problems in Ukraine - look, this arrogance! And why didn't Perebyjnis comment on the case in Pilsen? Now, how was it that Ukrajinec who came to the Czech Republic organized a disco called Bandery? So now, of course, there is tension, because it does not please the citizens of Plzeň, that they sing at their event - normally discotheque, there simply in a club with the name of Bandery, who killed Volyňské Bohemia, and really had brutal methods by Ukrainian nationalists, carved children out of pregnant women's stomachs and so on. That's why Volyně Čech didn't join Majdan because in every family of Volyně Čech, basically everyone, they have some relative grandfather, uncle after World War II, who was either burned alive by bander, killed alive and so on, because they have the worst experiences with Ukrainian Nazis. And this Perebyjnis, this friend of yours, who you invited here to the House and sat here in the House - I didn't agree with it, but you have a majority - so he wrote a letter to Czech television and there protested against the broadcast of the film Katyna, who talks about the atrocities of banderos so it wouldn't be broadcast on Czech television. So this guy, he's your friend. That's your friend! I think it's really completely awful. I took a little turn, but I didn't actually turn away, I'm talking to the point, because I'm recapitulating what's going on around here that you want to rob retired people, and they're even supporting it here from Ukraine. So no wonder, because they want you to send the other tens of billions - and you're doing it - to Ukraine and not to Czech pensioners. But that is Petr Fiala's government policy, and I do not agree with that principle. That's why I'm not surprised these people, these Ukrajinec, are attacking Tomio Okamura. But I do not mind, I will continue to fight for my opinions and I am convinced that my opinions are that I am fighting for the right thing, the Czech citizen and the Czech Republic in the first place. And it would really be good if the state of Ukraine, its political representatives, had stopped sticking their noses in the democratic Czech Republic - one of the most corrupt states in the world! They're only in the second hundred in corruption. So let them stop talking about our business, arrogantly this guy, and do his corruption. But they don't care, because that corrupt state over there, they just don't care. You're just money, money, money, and you're still picking on me here, who I'm fighting to keep you from stealing from Czech pensioners. So this needs to be said straight, and I'm definitely not gonna back down. And once again I stress that we have always said in the SPD that the real need is needed, we are in favour of being adequately helped. But it must not be at the expense of Czech citizens in this way. As I said, millions here, more than a million Czech pensioners have no money at all, they're below the poverty line, they don't have the basic needs of life, and you still want to take the money away from them and send it to Ukraine or Ukrajinec living in the Czech Republic. That's not normal, and I'm saying that's enough. It's too much, and I've been telling you this since last year. Okay, then you tell me I'm a populist, then I hear I'm an extremist for these opinions. I don't know what I am, but those are your screams, those are your desperate screams without arguments. And by the way, a populist is nothing at all. That's not a bad word, because what Chairman ANO Babiš said here, those are the words of my friend Matte Salvini of the Italian League, because populi is the people. And it was Matteo Salvini who registered the domain populi.it and, on the contrary, he laughed at it, his entire political competition. Because the fact that we in the SPD listen to the people, I go for years, I go for over ten years every year for dozens of big events among citizens, I go there for big city celebrations, I go to all sorts of things among tens of thousands of citizens, I listen to the views of citizens, and then I transfer them to Parliament. I'm not ashamed of it. Vox populi is the voice of the people. Yes, the SPD is the flag of these citizens. I listen to them on the streets. I'm not ashamed of walking down the street and talking to citizens. Every time I walk down the street, I'm on my own, a lot of people, they talk to me, tell me their opinions, tell me what their problems are. I understand that most government MPs probably won't say it in the Czech Republic because they won't even recognize you, but I have relatively considerable feedback, and I'm not ashamed that the SPD is the voice of the people, the vox population, the voice of the people, yes, the population. So that's it, and we're gonna keep doing it. [[17,00 hours]] The opposite is elites and elites, you are in a government five-calice, a self-appointed elite where you don't listen to the voice of the people. And I say in the SPD, none of us play the elite. We are ordinary people who defend the common problems of citizens of the Czech Republic. It's like I'm saying, let me just remind you what your proposals are for the House of Deputies meeting. Now here's the suggestion that you want to rob the pension recipients. You are here last time, and now you are pushing for political control of Czech television because your preferences have fallen, so you want Czech television to broadcast only pro-government views and to be a well-founded opposition - Czech TV, Czech Radio. You want to politically control the Czech Television Council, the Czech Radio Council, it is in charge of the Minister of Culture Baxa of Pilsen from ODS, who is in charge of this to abuse the licence fees of citizens, because licence fees are paid by voters of all parties. And then you're promoting the Censorship Act, which I've already talked about, and you even want to give over 100 million crowns to pro-government various nonprofits and pro-government media to just write about pro-government opinions. So you're taking advantage of the funds, and all the more you want to steal from the elderly, so of course it's completely unacceptable for us, and that's why I'm here and I'm gonna be performing here at this meeting. I will, and even if you were to interrupt me, which you did last year, when I was here fighting the pandemic law, you ended up talking to me to even interrupt me to shut me up. But of course I won't be silenced because I'm convinced that the SPD is fighting for the right thing to do. So let's go to the social system, because it's obvious that Petr Fiala's government here - you just have to realize that paying people fair pensions, and especially not robbing them of the promised pensions they're entitled to by law is just wrong. "After World War II, the situation with regard to the social insurance system in the Czech Republic was complicated because of inflation, social insurance funds were impaired. In 1948 Law No. 99/1948 Coll., on National Insurance. In the following years, the nationalization and adoption of Soviet laws took place. Laws were adopted: Law No. 54/1956 Coll., on sickness insurance, he was valid until the end of 2008, Act No. 55/1956 Coll., on Social Security, which several years later replaced Act No. 101/1964 Sb., then no. 121/1975 Sb. and in 1988 Act No. 100/1988 Coll., some parts of which were valid until recently. Since 2009 Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, and Act No. 103/1966 Coll., on social security of cooperative peasants. Following the 1989 revolution and the transition to democracy, changes were made to social security law. For example, discrimination against self-employed persons has been eliminated. The following standards have been adopted in the field of social security law: 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support. At present, the state is increasingly trying to help all types of pensioners and adopt laws to improve their standard of living." So here I would like to point out that the bachelor's work is older, because, of course, it doesn't apply to the current Fialův government. There's talk of a situation ten, fifteen, twenty years ago. "In 2013, pension reform took place in the Czech Republic concerning old-age pensions. Three pillars of the pension system were created. The first pillar was called pension insurance and was, at present and is, mandatory for all. The employee paid 6.5 percent of his wages to this pillar, which was further managed by the State. The second pillar was called retirement savings. A citizen who entered into a second pillar contract paid 6.5 percent of his earnings from his wages, paid 3,5 percent to the mandatory first pillar and 3 percent to an individual account. For the 3 % that he had surrendered to an individual account, it was necessary to submit 2 per cent voluntarily. After the citizen began to receive a pension, he was paid a classic pension from pension savings. The activities of the second pillar have been terminated. The third pillar is called supplementary pension savings. The third pillar is functional today after several changes. The insured person transfers funds to the pension company, which stores them on his selected investment fund - currently four types. In addition, the State shall contribute each month to the pension company's account by contribution according to the amount of the financial contributions committed.' The third pillar was optional back then, unlike the second pillar, which I criticized here yesterday. This was Miroslav Kalousek from TOP 09, who basically wanted to bring private money into private funds by law without guaranteeing the security of this money in the event of the fund's collapse, and then we canceled the SPD's votes, and that was good. So let us look at social security law and the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms. "The state that protects the first generation of human rights is referred to as the state of law, and the state that protects the second generation of human rights is called the democratic state. Social security law falls within the third generation of human rights. The State which protects the individual's rights thus acquired is called a social state. The rule of law guarantees its citizens legal order, which is respected both by the citizens and by the institutions of the state. The public authorities undertake not to interfere with the personal sphere of their citizens, and if they intervene in the personal sphere, they shall do so only on the basis and within the limits of the law." Well, you see, within the limits of the law, citizens should be given the promised valorisation, but you'll even bend it backwards to take the money away from people. "The second generation of human rights, i.e. democratic, is found in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 23 Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This is, for example, the freedom of expression and the right to information, then the fact that the right to petition is guaranteed and then the right to peacefully associate, and finally the social rights in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms are found in the fourth, together with the rights of economic and cultural, namely in Art. 30 to 32. Social rights are the youngest generation of human rights. Their implementation is not associated with constitutional laws as with the first and second generations of human rights, but with ordinary laws. It should be noted that in many institutions we find the designation of a particular state by a state of law and democracy, and rarely by a social state. At present, the social state declares itself, for example, Spain, but the social state is every country that adopts its third generation of rights by its laws or international treaties, exemplary articles of social rights in the Czech Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, in the Czech version. Citizens have the right to adequate material security in old age and incapacity for work, as well as in the loss of a provider, the granting of old-age, invalidity and survivors' pensions. [[17.10 hours]] So you can see that your proposal, the five-calice government proposal by Petr Fiala, where you want to rob a pensioner of the promised money, is also essentially contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, since the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is part of the Constitution, since the Constitution thus clearly speaks of citizens as having the right to adequate material security in old age and also incapacity for work. And what you're saying is that you want to rob all pension recipients of the money they're legally entitled to. At present they are entitled by law, you want to change the law in purpose, and I say that it is wrong that people are entitled to adequate material security, and I am speaking in accordance with the democratic constitution. On the contrary, you see it differently, but you think it's okay to deprive people of pensions. What else does the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms talk about? That everyone has the right to health protection, that a woman during pregnancy is guaranteed special care, protection in working relationships and appropriate working conditions. So let us look at social security in the European Union. Again, I'm saying that the bachelor's work is getting older, so not all the information can be up to date, but it's certainly enough for a certain perspective. "Each EU member must have a social security system, but the choice of structure is up to him. Two models appear in the EU. EU Member States' social security systems are divided into social insurance and social assistance. Originally, the EU intended to unite the social security system in all Member States, but large differences in systems and certain unwillingness of Member States led to the conclusion that full unification did not take place and is not planned in the near future." And I also noticed that in response to my speech yesterday, when I defended the more than 3 million pension recipients, Mr Jakub Janda was critically at my address, but that was also in the limits of political poking, so I just took it and it is okay. We're on the committee together, and I think there's no problem like... This cooperation is taking place on the committee to make it work, so it was such a nudge, it's okay, but there was nothing personal, hateful, just like the members of the STAN movement. That's why I gave them a special passage. Yeah, and somebody else. Mr Benda was still being critical, but it was also such a political poke, so I think it is quite all right that everyone must be used to it. But where there is personal hatred, vulgarisms and vulgarisms, of course, I will certainly not take it, and I will always name it here, and repeatedly, who and why is acting like it and at what stage. So 'in order to maintain the free movement of persons, which is one of the main pillars of the European Union, a legal framework for social security has been established for EU Member States. The European Social Charter adopted by the Council of Europe in 1961 can be described as a fundamental document for the protection of social rights. Ratification of the European Social Charter meant the interest and effort of countries to try to agree and harmonise fundamental social problems and to contribute to the elimination of the international conflicts that could arise. For example, the European Social Charter provides for the right to fair working conditions, the right to social security and the right of family to social, legal and economic protection. The Czech Republic ratified the European Social Charter in 1998. Significant changes in social security have also been introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon, amending the EU Treaty and the Treaty establishing the European Community, with which the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU has also entered into force. It has established fundamental human rights for all EU citizens, such as dignity, freedom, equality. Social rights are governed by Title IV of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, social security and social assistance." We could also argue about this here, because here you can see that the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights sets dignity among the fundamental human rights of all EU citizens, and I simply disagree that the Fialův coalition thinks that the pension is 8, 10, 12,000, and that it is taking money from these people. That's just not dignified, because, as you know, you're hurting and taking money from all retired people who have pensions of over 8,000. I just don't think it's dignified. That's why the SPD is proposing a minimum basic pension law, but you're blocking it, you're stopping us. "EU primary social security law - we currently have two fundamental legal sources in the primary EU social security law, the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The most important provisions concern fundamental discrimination on grounds of nationality and the free movement of persons. The free movement of persons can be taken from the point of view of the free movement of workers and the free movement of persons in terms of social security, which enables the EU institutions to take social security measures in general in this area. EU secondary social security law - as mentioned above, EU institutions are empowered to adopt acts of secondary social security law. There has always been a coordination regulation in this area of law. The preparation of the new coordination regulations began in the 1990s and this legislation became effective on 1 May 2010. It currently contains a regulation: [28], on the coordination of the social security system, Regulation No. 2009/1998 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation 883/2004. Despite its relatively short effectiveness, the above mentioned regulations made significant changes, for example in 2011, when the regulation began to apply to third-country persons. The Regulation shall apply to persons who are nationals of a Member State, stateless persons and refugees residing in a Member State who are subject or subject to the legislation of one or more Member States, as well as to their family members and survivors, also to survivors who have been subject to the legislation of one or more Member States, irrespective of their nationality, if their survivors are nationals of a Member State or stateless persons or refugees residing in the territory of a Member State. In substance, the Regulation applies, for example, to sickness benefits, old age benefits, invalidity benefits, funeral allowances. [[17.20 hours]] "Social security coordination in the EU - the task of coordinating social security in the EU is to address at least the fundamental problems that are: to prevent conflicts of laws, both positive and negative, to eliminate unequal treatment on grounds of nationality, i.e. all forms of direct and indirect discrimination against foreign nationals, to set the interruption of the period of insurance of workers due to its movement across borders, to eliminate territorial requirements for the payment of benefits. In order to address the fundamental social problems of EU citizens, Regulation 883/2004 introduces five basic principles: the principle of equal treatment, the principle of the addition of periods of insurance, the principle of the preservation of acquired rights, the principle of application of one rule of law." Now let us look at the relationship between national and international social security law. "The relationship between national law and EU law is determined by the fundamental principles of the rule of law. The most important principle for this relationship is the principle of the application priority of Union law over national law, according to which European law always prevails over the laws of the Member States. This relationship is closely linked to the concept of subsidiarity, which means support, which states that the EU institutions will only exercise their competence when Member States are unable to act effectively." And here again, as I have announced, for those who are watching only now, I am deliberately trying to delay my long performance here and prevent the government coalition from adopting a law to rob those about 3 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic of the promised pension valorisation. That's why I'm reading a long text here and I'm going to fight, even though it's outnumbered, there are 108 government MPs, only 20 of us in the SPD. It's outnumbered almost 6: 1, 5: 1, five to one, six to one in conversion. But we don't mind, we will fight with all our strength for those about 3 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic. So, yes, I'm stalling the House's meeting here on purpose so that the government coalition doesn't accept your government law that you want to rob 3 million pensioners, that's right. I report for this, I am fighting for 3 million pension recipients with all my strength. I talked last night, the media counted it, seven hours seven minutes, and we'll see today, but maybe I'm just faking it. It's not about making records here, it wasn't my goal at all. My goal is to stop those old people from being robbed to rob old people. So I'd rather repeat that, so as to make it clear why I'm talking here and why I'm going to talk a long time, and not by far the last time at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. "Both bilateral and multilateral treaties are of great importance to social security law. Bilateral, i.e. bilateral contracts were usually concluded by the Czech Republic for equal treatment of citizens of the Czech Republic with citizens of the Contracting State, such as the Communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 267/1997 Coll., the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Swiss Confederation on Social Security." In the last part of the author of this bachelor's thesis, I read in the introduction, Mr Tomáš Petružálek, compares the pension system of the Czech Republic and the pension system of the Slovak Republic, and therefore considers it appropriate to mention the communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 228/1993 Coll., on the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on Social Security. "The Communication provides that the insurance period prior to the division of the Czechoslovak Federal Republic accounts for the state in whose territory the employer had its registered office." Multilateral, i.e. multilateral agreements are the result of international organisations' activities. These are, for example, contracts of the International Labour Organisation and so on. Social insurance - and now let's look at Chapter 2.5, Social insurance, social security and social assistance are called. "Although it might seem that these are identical terms with other names, this is not the case. It is therefore important to zoom in a little bit. Social insurance means a financial system whereby a person or someone else is obliged to provide it in the event of a future social event by delaying part of his personal consumption. Social insurance can be short-term, such as sickness insurance, or long-term, such as old-age insurance. Social insurance has basic features, which are the statutory obligations, the determination of insurance payers, such as the employer for the employee, the determination of compulsory insured persons, for example each employee" - excuse me - "conditions for entitlement to payment of premiums, such as the achievement of age, the determination of the method of managing the funds collected or paid in social insurance. Social provision means providing funds under legal conditions, such as the death of parents of a minor child. The social provision is applied on the basis of Act No. 117/1995 Coll., on State Social Support. The entitlement to state social aid arises by fulfilling the conditions laid down by law, which do not include an obligation before entitlement to the benefit to pay the premium. Social aid is aid to the State to those who find themselves in a difficult situation in their lives. Moreover, persons are unable to deal with situations in which they find themselves, alone or with the help of their closest ones. At the same time, they do not receive State social support or are inadequate. The signs of social assistance are: way of verifying the emergency, conditions of origin and duration. Whoever draws the dose does not contribute to the system, the finances are managed by the State. Social assistance therefore works on the principle of subsidiarity. First it is to take care of the person concerned or also the family, then the state, and on the principle of obligation must be fulfilled by the statutory conditions. Social assistance is closely linked to Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress. Social assistance may not only be financial, but it may also be factual or in the form of social services. Social services are typically asylum houses, homes for seniors." Now let's take a look at the pension system. "The pension system of the Czech Republic consists of two pillars of pension insurance. The first pillar is based on compulsory pension insurance under Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, and the second pillar is based on voluntary pension savings under Act No. 427/2011 Sb. Other important laws of pension insurance are Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, and Decree No. 284/1995 Coll., implementing the Pension Insurance Act. [[17.30 hours]] Let's go to terms linked to the pension system. The basic concepts of the pension scheme need to be clarified for a proper understanding of pension insurance and the subsequent correct calculation of the amount of pensions. "Insured persons. In pension insurance we distinguish between two categories of insured persons: compulsory insured persons and voluntarily insured persons. Pension insurance shall be attended by the natural person referred to in Sections 5 and 6 of Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance." Now let's take a closer look at the insured persons. So first, compulsory insured persons. "We divide compulsory insured persons into two groups. 1. For the first group, if a person is involved in sickness insurance, pension insurance is also included. This was not the case between 2009 and 2011, when the law listed persons who were only involved in pension insurance. In these years, the persons paid pension insurance only if the amount of their income amounted to a legally determined income. It was CZK 5,900 in 2009, CZK 6,000 in 2010, CZK 6,200 in 2011. These were, for example, partners who performed activities for these companies for remuneration outside their main employment relationship. 2. The second group shall consist of insured persons for whom the insurance is paid by the State, such as disabled persons who receive a third degree disability pension, secondary or higher education students for six years after the age of 18.'; By the way, just as I mentioned the case in Pilsen right now, I got some more detailed information from our people here, because of course I read it. The Ukrainian disco they did in Plzeň, they called it the Bandera Party. This means, Ukrajinec who came here to the Czech Republic, organizers from the young Ukrajinec, in the Pilsen club Arena directly called their disco called the Bandera Party. They refer to the leaders of Ukrainian nationalists - we know who we are talking about - Stepan Bandera, who killed Volyňské Čech. That's behavior! It's unbelievable what's going on here. I told you, at least in some cases, we put lice in our coats, and I'm telling you straight. It's gonna be a problem, and it's all because of the government of Petr Fiala, who did it. It's all your fault because you opened the door here completely uncritically. How can we tolerate this in the Czech Republic, how can they have a residence permit? The Minister of the Rakušan is silent about it, he is pretending that it does not concern him, because he is the architect, as well as Prime Minister Fiala, of this uncontrolled migration flow to the Czech Republic. How can anyone legally reside here - yes, under the Fialův Government everything is possible, I know - who organizes here, normally young Ukrajinec organize the Bandera Party, while the banderos killed the Volyne Bohemia. You guys are crazy about your government. It is necessary to terminate these people's residence permits immediately and expel them to Ukraine. That's where Bandera's legalized, that's where they celebrate, that's not where these people are supposed to be. They are dangerous people in my opinion and have nothing to do in the Czech Republic. If they like Bandera, who killed Volyňské Bohemia, get them out of here. I also call on the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, President of STAN, to respond in this way. But we can hardly expect this from STAN, because STAN is a party that is hard for immigration, which, on the contrary, supports unlimited unmanaged migration to the Czech Republic. You guys have already done this. You support the Ukrainianisation of the Czech Republic. Nobody has anything against decent labor. We're missing people here, like, who clean up restaurants, do dishes, do constructions, etc., I don't have anything against them. Where there is a shortage of labour, let us have a labour force here for insufficient positions, which are clearly not available to Czech citizens, that is what I said from the start. In the event that Czech citizens are in those places, it is of course necessary to terminate these foreigners' residence permits and to give priority to Czech citizens. That's the SPD's opinion. So I have nothing against the Ukrajinec as such, I have nothing against anyone, but I cannot do these things at the expense of security, and especially social reconciliation in the Czech Republic. So I wanted to make it very clear that I have nothing against the Ukrajinec as such, but I certainly have a lot against the people who are singing Bandera who murdered Volyňské Čech. This is, for example, the Ambassador Perebyjnis, a former Ambassador in the Czech Republic who wrote a letter even on Czech TV in this sense, and here the young Ukrajinec are having a Bandera Party! That's completely insane! And imagine that the event took place several times in Pilsen, and nothing happens. It took place last November, January, February. The organizers of the young Ukrajinec call it a charity event to support Ukrainian fighters. Like the banderos who killed the Volynn Bohemia? What does Petr Fiala's government do, what does the Home Secretary do? Anyway, of course, we know nothing. On the contrary, he supports it, he doesn't give a damn. So it's completely and absolutely incredible what's going on here. I, of course, fully support the citizens - because it says right here that it has upset the public - and I stand behind the Czech citizens who are upset. It's a disgusting thing that's going on here. So it's absolutely disgusting. I will also mention, of course, that he killed not only Volyňské Bohemia but also killed Žid. This means that this is, of course, an absolutely unacceptable thing. That means, of course, we're against it. I don't understand why Interior Minister Vít Rakušan - I understand because I know him - he supports it. I think it's absolutely unacceptable what's going on here. Even a Ukrajinka living in the Czech Republic, some Ljuba Cao - it's normally written on iDNES, so it's not here that I should name someone - who's been living in the Czech Republic for 25 years - says Bandera has done a lot for Ukraine. That's gratitude, what, that's attitude! So the fact that somebody killed the Volyně Bohemia doesn't matter. These people live here in the Czech Republic - instead of being grateful for having a better life here than they do in Ukraine... I've been to Ukraine and I've seen it there, it's obviously a stolen country that's decaying, but that means that it's obviously their thing, they've done it like this. It's not our fault, we don't have the capacity here to take care of the poor from all over the world who still do it themselves. That means this is obviously a big problem. So I just kind of took a little turn in the sense that I'm gonna call this place a little bit more about this thing, these horrible things that even happen here. I just don't want it here, people like that and behavior like that, some kind of Bandera party. I can imagine, I can vividly imagine what would happen if in the opposite guard, what happened in Ukraine, I think that in a better case, someone will probably have someone from local people... well, maybe they won't survive, because there are a little different manners. So let's move on. [[17.40 hours]] Let's go to terms, let's go to those voluntarily insured persons. "Conveniently, they are part of pension insurance mainly by self-employed persons. The insurance undertaking must operate as a main activity. Its revenue is therefore the main and only sources of income of the insured person. The condition is the age of 18 years and the filing of an application for voluntary participation in pension insurance for district social security, Annex 1. The reasons for registration may be two, on the basis of a qualified reason or without giving a reason. Qualified reasons are management in the register of the Regional Branch of the Labour Office as a candidate for employment for the period when unemployment or retraining is due; studies at a secondary or university in the Czech Republic except for the first six years of this study after reaching 18 years of age before 2010; gainful employment abroad after 31. 12. 1995; the performance of long-term volunteering; carrying out activities in the Czech Republic for the benefit of a foreign employer is an employer whose registered office is in the territory of a non-contractual State; the performance of the duties of Member of the European Parliament; stay abroad for the purpose of following a husband who worked in diplomatic files.' Concepts linked to the calculation of pensions - before calculating the amount of pensions itself, it is necessary to clarify several basic concepts that are closely related to the calculation. Let's go to the next circuit, the so-called dosage formula. "The law of a defined procedure laying down the basis for the calculation of the pension benefit and the subsequent assessment of the benefit itself, using precise mathematical procedures. For the calculation of the dose, the basic size and the percentage of the dose are required. It's basic. The basic amount is determined by the exact amount for all types of pensions. Its amount is always regulated by the decree of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This did not apply until 2012, until when it was amended by the Government's regulation on raising pensions.' Let's see here what is the development of the basic area: 2016 - it is CZK 2,440, 2017 - CZK 2,550, 2018 - CZK 2,700, 2019 - CZK 3,270. Let's take a look at the percentage. "The percentage is determined by the percentage of the calculation basis. The percentage exchange is related to the period of insurance in the case of direct pensions and the percentage of pensions of the deceased in the case of survivor's pensions. The percentage exchange shall be 0,9 per cent of the calculation base for the first 360 calendar days and 1,5 per cent of the calculation base from 361 day. For each year of insurance periods, the percentage exchange of old-age pension from the calculation base shall be increased by 1,5 %.' So the longer someone works, the higher their pension. Let's take a look at the insurance period. "The period of insurance is defined in Section 11 of the Pension Insurance Act after 31 December 1995, i.e. the period of participation in insurance of persons referred to in Section 5 (1). 1, § 4 and § 6, which are voluntarily insured persons, for which insurance has been paid in the Czech Republic. The period of employment acquired before 1 January 1996 is included in the period of insurance. Spare insurance period. The period laid down by law, which is assessed as if it were a period of insurance. The condition is the duration of the insurance at least one year. It is typical for the Czech Republic that it has a wide range of alternate periods of insurance, the law admits nine." Full list - see Annex 2. "Travel age. It is important to achieve retirement age for the benefit of old-age pensions. The retirement age depends on the gender and in women the number of children raised. The upper pension age limit for persons born after 1971 is 65 years old. The law then specially determines the pension age for insured persons born between 1936 and 1971. Pension insurance. Pension insurance is the main pillar of the pension system of the Czech Republic. Anyone who reaches retirement age is paid a pension from pension insurance. At present, up to 95 percent of retirement pension expenditure is provided from pension insurance. Pension benefits are often the only income of pensioners in old age. Expenditure from the pension insurance budget must be borne by the State, so it must not end or interrupt the payment in any way. However, the State may adjust the height of pensions to ensure the sustainability of the pension insurance pillar.' And we're right there, and we're right there, and, of course, I have to pause for a while. Here the antisocial government of Petr Fiala from ODS and SPD is exactly different, because we think that the state should adjust the height of pensions in order to maintain dignified pensions. We think that pensions should gradually increase, but Fialův's government five-coal ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 thinks that's why you proposed the law here today, or yesterday, to reduce the legal valorisation of pensions. And that's exactly the contradiction that we all interpret that sentence differently. We say increase pensions for all pension recipients, and we believe that, and we have already discussed this yesterday, that it is possible to ensure the sustainability of the pension pillar when the necessary expenditures are cut off. But you just, for you, are the priority, you are the Ukrainian government, Petr Fiala is the Ukrainian Prime Minister, so that's true. Now I hear a scream that it's not true - it's true. Yes, that's the nickname the citizens give him. I've said it in the past, just to remind you, it didn't give Okamura, it's a citizen's nickname, look at social media. And I agree with the citizens that they feel that way, because if you want to take 19 billion pensioners from the Valorisation that they are legally promised, and instead you give 50 billion to Ukrainians, what does anyone think about it? And yet you boast in your government that you are leaders in sending funds to Ukraine, and even in relation to the GDP of the Czech Republic - or the population - it has now fallen to me - we are perhaps the first ever. The Czech Republic is the first - I don't know why we have to be the first in this. I wouldn't do that, for me, the Czech citizen and the Czech Republic are in the first place, so I am not surprised that citizens, when you look at social networks, call your government the Ukrainian government and call Prime Minister Petr Fial Ukrainian Prime Minister, and they say that he should go to Ukraine to do politics. That's right. So somebody called out to me -- okay, he didn't yell, it was a decent call, I'm saying, it was polite, it's not like yesterday when someone was yelling at me when I defended my seniors -- so you asked if that's true? I'm saying it's true. Yes, that's how people write it on social media, it's true that they write it and that's what they call the Fialův Government and the Prime Minister. It's true. Well, it's new information for you, but it's true. I didn't get it out of my head. That's right, and they're already saying it about the Fialův Government for three quarters of a year -- three quarters of a year already say it, six months for sure, and it's been going around pretty massively, this nickname, and I don't blame it at all. I have the exact same impression, I must say. [[17.50 hours]] "The main reason for regulation is the gradual ageing of the population and the declining birth rate, resulting in a decline in the number of economically active populations, a decrease in income and an increase in expenditure in the pension insurance budget. Several changes can therefore be expected in the future, such as reducing pensions, extending the retirement age or increasing the level of insurance premiums." And I don't agree with the author here anymore. So it's a bachelor's thesis, so it's interesting that the author of the bachelor's thesis has completely missed cutting off unnecessary expenses or supporting the birth rate of decent families, because in the future, I think the methods are different, the SPD is talking about them, and they are the methods that are currently from the most advanced countries. "Pension insurance is provided by the state, namely the Czech Social Security Administration. Insurance payments shall be made to the special account of the state budget after collection. The funding system works in the way of pay as you go, often also referred to as ongoing funding, which means that continuously collected premiums are immediately redistributed among insured persons who receive benefits collected from the pension scheme. All the funds that come into the account and leave at the same time, there is no financial reserve. This system has recently been used in order to avoid the misuse by the State of compulsory contributions to the reimbursement of the activities of public authorities. Pension insurance principles - pension insurance principles have been formed throughout history, which is very diverse in the Czech Republic. In the 1920s, many legislation in the pension system was adopted in the Czech Republic, which expanded the pension system considerably. The most important extension was the introduction of compulsory pension insurance for self-employed persons as well. This event introduces one of the most important principles of current pension insurance, which is the principle of compulsory participation, i.e. that the participation of virtually all economically active persons in pension insurance is mandatory. In the Czech Republic, no one can request the withdrawal from the insurance payroll register and stop paying it. He can't ask to be removed even if he's shown the ability to save money to secure his old age. On the contrary, a person who is not yet obliged to pay pension insurance can volunteer and participate in pension insurance. Another principle is the principle of uniform adjustment. It means that the same legislation applies to all groups of insured persons. Therefore, we do not have different legislation for employees, self-employed persons and so on, as was the case until 1992. Previously, for example, there was special legislation for cooperative peasants or for persons in the service. The special legislation of certain groups of persons is still applied in other countries, such as Polish teachers will be entitled to a pension after 25 years of employment. The principle of liability of benefits means that anyone who fulfils the statutory conditions is entitled to receive benefits. The principle of liability of benefits directly follows the principle of judicial protection. Anyone can therefore apply for a review at the Regional Court on pension insurance or pension payments. People with higher incomes must suffer the principle of solidarity with people with lower incomes. In practice, this means that the basis of assessment is no longer increased from a certain amount of revenue. Solidarity among economically active citizens also applies here with those receiving pensions. Payment of pensions is guaranteed by the State. The guarantee is based on the principle of compulsory payment of pensions, which is regulated in the Act on the State Budget. In order to ensure that pensions do not remain small in increasing prices and minimum demands on life, the principle of dynamicity applies. Thanks to this principle, pensions are continuously increased. The Czech Republic is characterised by the principle of a substitute period of insurance. In the Czech Republic, there is a wide range of supplementary periods of insurance, i.e. periods when the insured person does not have to pay the insurance, but the period for calculating the amount of the pension is still included. Supplementary pension savings - supplementary pension savings is the second pillar of the pension system of the Czech Republic. The pillar was introduced on 1 January 2013 by Law No. 427/2011 Coll., on Supplementary Pension Savings. Supplementary pension savings replaced pension savings with a state contribution that could be closed from 2004 to November 2012. Those who contract pension savings with state contribution under Act No. 42/1994 Coll., on pension savings with state contribution, can continue insurance, but can not be concluded at present. The second pillar is characterised by fund financing. The participant saves money on the account of a pension company that evaluates it on the capital market. At all times, the funds remain the property of the insured person and after the savings, benefits from the savings are paid to him. Individual account - each insured person's money is separated from other insured persons' finances, unlike the first pillar, where all funds are managed in one account. Equivalence - benefits paid are equal to contributions from the participant. Defining contributions - the amount of insurance is defined and benefits are then derived from it. Volunteering. - any person may become insured under statutory conditions or at any time cancel insurance and withdraw from the pillar. The State contribution in the second pillar - in 2019 the State contributes to each participant in the second pillar to the pension by the amount derived from the amount of its contribution. The calculation of the contribution increases directly with the amount of the contribution and its upper limit is limited.' So let's see what's going on with the state contributions. When the monthly deposit is CZK 100, the state contribution in 2019 was 0. When the monthly deposit is CZK 200, the state contribution in 2019 was also 0. When the monthly contribution is CZK 300, the state contribution was CZK 90. When the monthly deposit is 400 kroner, it's 110 kroner. When the monthly deposit is 500 kroner, it is 130 kroner. When the monthly deposit is 600 kroner, it's 150 kroner. When the monthly deposit is 700 crowns, it is 170 crowns, and when the monthly deposit is 800 crowns, it is 190 crowns. When the monthly deposit is 900 kroner, it is 210 kroner. When the monthly deposit is CZK 1,000, it is CZK 230. If the monthly deposit is CZK 2,000 or CZK 3,000, it is still CZK 230. Here I would point out again, because I have already said a certain passage, that the reason why I'm talking long and reading here about pensions is because I want to prevent the Fialův Government from imposing a law here to rob about 3 million pension recipients of their money that they are legally entitled to. That's why I'm here now, which is why I'm dragging the House meeting. It's a big outnumber to the SPD, you're outnumbered, government MPs are 108, only 20 of us, but we're just fighting our best. I think it's a good thing that even as much of the public as possible learns about the antisocial actions of the Fialův government, so that's why I'm here, which is why I'm trying to build up the negotiations as I can, so I can do everything I can to keep the elderly from stealing from the promised money. And I'm not ashamed to be fighting for 3 million pensioners, elderly, disabled, widowed and orphaned pensions. That's right, the SPD is fighting for seniors, for pension recipients, and the Fialův government threw them overboard. [[18.00 hours]] So let's move on. "The transfer of pension savings with a state contribution to supplementary pension savings - after supplementary pension savings have replaced pension savings with a state contribution, was created by the so-called transformation funds that replaced the original pension funds. These funds are managed by pension companies of insured persons who have established insurance under the Pension Savings Act with a state contribution. This separated the finances of old and new insured people. It is only possible to enter a transformed fund on the basis of the conclusion of a pension savings agreement with a state contribution. The insurance company from the transformed funds pays benefits arising from pension savings. Insurance companies manage funds so that the nominal value of the funds deposited on the fund does not fall. A lower return can therefore be expected than for supplementary pension savings fund participants. Insurers who have funds deposited in a transformed fund may transfer to the participating fund of supplementary pension savings. This step is non-refundable and is only possible for the pension company where the transformation fund is run. Pension companies - the funds of insured persons are managed by participating funds that manage pension companies. The pension company must comply with the conditions laid down by law in order to obtain an appropriate licence for the operation of supplementary pension savings. License is granted by the Czech National Bank after the following conditions are met: a joint-stock company based in the Czech Republic, initial capital of at least CZK 50 million. The purpose of the activity is to collect contributions from the insured person, the employer's contributions and state contributions, the management of assets in the participating funds and the payment of supplementary pension savings benefits. Currently, eight pension companies are active in supplementary pension savings.' Let's go to pension funds. "The pension company must set up and run a conservative fund. The Conservative Fund serves to maintain maximum funds. A pension company should not invest in risk situations by a conservative fund and should try to make the value of the savings funds as stable as possible. The pension company must transfer all the funds of the insured person to the conservative fund not later than five years before the entitlement to benefits. From now on, all the funds of the insured person are managed only on a conservative fund, where their payout takes place. However, if the insured person refuses to transfer funds to a conservative fund, the insurance undertaking must respect its decision and draw attention to potential risks. The pension company may voluntarily set up local funds. They try to be more predatory in the market than the conservative fund and try to ensure the highest possible yield for the participants. For this purpose, investment securities, money market instruments, collective investment securities, derivatives and deposits shall be used. Investment strategy - among participating funds it is possible to transfer and try to maximize the revenues of savings funds. Three investment strategies serve this purpose. Firstly, a conservative strategy that seeks to maximize financial security. Conservative funds invest mainly in bonds that do not provide large returns. The Conservative Strategy will ensure the payment of the embedded funds increased by state contributions. Conservative strategies are recommended to people who do not want to take high risks and those who are in the age of 55 who are just about to close pension savings. A balanced strategy causes fluctuations in finance. Several years in a row, savings can go to a negative and, on the contrary, some years can achieve higher returns. Finances are invested in bonds and also in stocks, cash and real estate. Finances should be assessed more than in a conservative strategy. This strategy is recommended for people 45 to 55 years of age. The dynamic strategy seeks to maximize the yield of invested funds. Finances are mainly invested in stocks and real estate. This strategy is the most risky and recommended for persons under 45 years of age. Pensions paid under pension insurance - old-age, disabled, widowed and widowed pensions are paid from pension insurance.' And that's what we're talking about here, because the Fialův Government wants to rob all the beneficiaries of old age, disability, widows, widows and orphans' pensions, because all of these pension recipients have been promised CZK 1,700 a month since June, and you want to cut them by CZK 1,000 a month on average, so basically you're going to cost all the pension recipients almost CZK 10,000 this year and, of course, next year too, there's more than CZK 10,000 on average, which, of course, is a very painful issue for pension recipients. We're defending it here, we just don't want you robbing old people. That's why we're doing these obstructions here, defending the interests of the approximately 3 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic. That's why I've been talking this long to stop you. "The above pensions are divided into: direct pensions - old-age and disabled, pensions derived, which is the widower, widower and orphan, this is the so-called survivor's pensions. The amount of direct pensions is calculated from periods of insurance and from the amount of earnings, the so-called calculation base, whereas pensions derived from direct pensions received by the deceased or to which he would be entitled. It is also important to draw attention to the diversity of terms: entitlement to a pension which arises from the date of fulfilment of the conditions laid down by the Pension Insurance Act for the relevant type of pension. Under more conditions, the date of fulfilment of the last condition arises. The right to a pension which arises by fulfilling the conditions laid down in the Pension Insurance Act for the creation of pension rights and for the payment of pension rights and the submission of an application for a grant or for the payment of a pension. Oldage pension - this is the most common type of pension. Its task is to ensure citizens of old age," which the Fialův Government obviously did not understand, because instead of trying to provide citizens of old age, you want to reduce their pensions, reduce legal valorisation, so you're doing the exact opposite, and that's why I'm standing here, and I've been talking this long since yesterday, because I want to prevent us from doing everything we can to prevent this law of yours, which you want to rob a pensioner. [[18.10 hours]] "The following conditions must be met for receiving an old-age pension: the fulfilment of the insurance period and the achievement of the retirement age. A proper old-age pension - a proper old-age pension is regulated by Section 26 of Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance. Not only is there a gradual increase in the age limit for retirement, but the insurance period is also increasing. The required period of insurance was 25 years before 2010. It's increasing gradually." It is increasing gradually, so while the required period of insurance was 25 years before 2010, today it is 35 years. "In literature and the press, we can sometimes find the first pension reform in 2010. This was related to the gradual increase in the required period of insurance and the gradual increase in the age of retirement.' Let's see what an early retirement pension is. "Citizens may apply for an old-age pension before they reach retirement age, but their pension is reduced by a percentage. The amount of the percentage reduction depends on the age when the citizen applies for early retirement. The early retirement pension is regulated by Section 31 of the Pension Insurance Act. The right to an early retirement pension shall be granted to any person who has completed the necessary periods of insurance for the retirement pension and who must be three years old if his retirement age is less than 63 years, five years if his retirement age is at least 63 years old and has reached the age of at least 60 years old. The last condition of an early retirement pension is that a person who receives an early old-age pension cannot apply for a full old-age pension after reaching retirement age. Pre-retirement - it is important to mention the difference between early retirement and pre-retirement. It might seem to be synonymous, but there is a difference between these terms. The early retirement pension is the pension benefit paid by the State, in addition to it see Chapter 3.1.2. On the other hand, the preconception is the possibility of drawing money from an investment fund deposited in the second pillar of the pension system. Funds may be drawn from the Fund up to five years before the proper retirement age is reached. Information on the possibility to draw the pre-retirement is provided by a particular pension company with which the insured person has a contract. Calculation of old-age pension - old-age pension is calculated by the relationship of two components as follows: NPD = ZV + PV. The basic salary for 2019 amounts to CZK 3,270, which is the same for each pensioner. On the contrary, the percentage is different for each pensioner and is derived from the period of insurance, participation or non-participation in the second pillar, by calculating the basis. The relationship can again be stated in the equation: PV = ZPVZ * VZ." Legend of equations: NPD means newly granted pension, ZV means basic pension, PV = percentage pension, ZPVZ = basic percentage of the calculation basis and VZ means calculation basis. "The calculation base shall be constructed: revenue from 1986 calculated according to the coefficient of increase of the general assessment base. Verification, assessment basis, adjusted by means of reduction borders, and calculation basis: revenues since 1986 are converted according to the coefficient of increase of the general assessment base. These revenues give rise to a personal assessment basis, which is adjusted by means of reducing borders. These operations provide a basis for calculation. The increase coefficients were determined by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by means of decrees for each year. The personal assessment base is determined by the average of the annual assessment bases. A reduction limit is still important for calculating the old-age pension. The reduction limit determines what percentage of income is included in the calculation base." The reduction limit for 2019 is determined: if the amount is less than CZK 14 388, the percentage counted in the pension is 100 per cent. If the amount is CZK 14 388 to CZK 130 796, the percentage of the pension is 26 percent, and if the amount is more than CZK 130 796, the percentage is CZK 0. Shortening of early retirement pension - the basic amount of the early retirement pension is the same as for the ordinary old-age pension, but the percentage is reduced. In cases where a future pensioner applies for an early retirement pension before 360 days before a full old-age pension, the reduction is increased. The percentage of early retirement pension shall be reduced for each 90 calendar days starting from the date on which the early retirement pension is granted.'; The number of days until the proper old-age pension, if it is 360 days or less, the percentage reduction for every 90 days shall be 3,6 %. If the number of days until the proper old-age pension is 361 days to 720 days, the reduction in the percentage of each 90 days shall be 1.2% and if the number of days until the proper old-age pension is more than 721 days, the reduction in the percentage of each 90 days shall be 1,5 %. The individual number of days shall be added up. For example, the applicant applies for an early pension of 990 days earlier, in which case the reduction will be 12,9 per cent, because 4 times counted 90 days at a rate of 0,9 per cent + 4 times counted 90 calendar days at a rate of 1,2 per cent + 3 times counted 90 calendar days at a rate of 1,5 per cent. Valorisation of pensions - Valorisation means raising pensions. Its conditions are laid down in the Pension Insurance Act, the specific amount being determined by a government regulation. Pensions are either raised regularly, usually in January or exceptionally, for example, inflation will reach 5%. The increase in pension shall always cover all types of pensions granted until 31 December of the previous calendar year. The pension is increased on the day of the January instalment of the pension, thus to each pensioner another day. Special allowances after reaching a certain age. Citizens who live to be 85 years old, the law admits an automatic increase in the percentage of the financial contribution of CZK 1,000, which is intended to cover the increased..." Sorry. "The pension is increased on the day of the January instalment of the pension, so different for each pensioner." So each pensioner has a different day. "Special contributions after reaching a certain age - citizens who live to 85 years of age, the law grants an automatic increase in the percentage of the financial contribution of CZK 1,000, which is intended to cover increased living costs associated with the high age. For citizens who reach the age of 100, 2,000 crowns are added. To 3. 12. 2018 - 438 pensioners who have reached 100 years. [[18.20 hours]] "Invalid pension - invalidity pension is used to ensure citizens who are unable to work or have significantly reduced conditions. From 2010 onwards, the invalidity pension is paid only up to the age of 65 and then transferred to the old-age pension. Invalidity - since 2010 we have only one disability pension, which is divided into three degrees of disability. The condition of the required period of insurance must also be fulfilled. This may not be fulfilled if disability is caused by an accident at work. The degree of invalidity - first degree 35 to 49 per cent is the loss of working ability, the percentage of 0.5 per cent. Second grade 50 to 69 %, percentage range 0,75 %. The third step above 70 per cent is the loss of working ability, a percentage of 1,5 per cent. Inability to work when applying for an invalidity pension is assessed by the District Social Security Administration by means of a medical assessment service. The medical assessment service in the Czech Republic is in the competence of both the treating doctors under the Ministry of Health and especially the task of doctors of the District Social Security Administration under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Doctors assess the medical condition of patients only, but there is no decision to allocate or not to allocate benefits under their jurisdiction. Medical assessment services are based on medical reports and opinions from professional doctors. It is assessed whether the disability is permanently affecting the incapacity for work, whether it is a stable health condition, whether and how the insured person is adapted to his disability, the ability to requalify to a different type of gainful activity, the ability to use the retained capacity, whether he or she is in the event of a decrease of 70 per cent and more capable of earning activity under completely exceptional conditions. The required period of insurance for disability pension - the required period of insurance is calculated according to the insured age: up to 20 years less than 1 year, 20 to 22 years - 1 year, 22 to 24 years - 2 years, 24 to 26 years - 3 years, 26 to 28 years - 4 years, over 28 years - 5 years. Survivors' pensions - the death of the breadwinner is a condition for entitlement to survivor's pension. We place widows, widowers and orphans in survivor's pensions. In order to receive any of these pensions, the deceased had to receive an invalidity or old-age pension or to meet the conditions for receiving a pension. Widow's and widow's pensions - there is only one difference between widow's and widow's pensions, namely that a widow's wife and a widow's man receive. The conditions for receiving these pensions are two, namely the existence of a marriage at the time of death, the deceased received an old-age or disability pension, fulfilled the conditions or died as a result of an accident at work. The survivors receive these pensions for a period of one year. After a period of one year, only the person who (a) cares for the careless child who is entitled to an orphan's pension after the deceased, (b) cares for a child who is dependent on the care of another person at stage II to IV, (c) cares for his or her parent or parents of the deceased spouse who lives with him or her in the home and is dependent on the care of another person at stage II to IV, (d) is disabled at the third stage, (e) has reached the age of four years lower than the retirement age of a man of the same date of birth or, where applicable, of the retirement age, if it is lower. If a widower or widower retires a new marriage, his pension is terminated. The pension is calculated from the basic salary, which is CZK 3,270 and from 50 percent of the direct pension received or entitled to the deceased. An orphan's pension - an orphan's pension is taken by an unemployed child who has been killed by a parent or by a person who has taken care of him by decision of the court. Once again, the deceased must fulfil the condition of entitlement to an old-age or invalidity pension. This condition is mitigated, only half of the required period of insurance for entitlement to disability pension is sufficient. An orphan is entitled to a pension from each parent, and when he acquires it, he ceases to be entitled. The orphan's pension is calculated from the basic salary of CZK 3,270 and 40% of the direct pension received or entitled to the deceased'. So that's the first phase of my explanation. I'll remind you again that I'm deliberately building a government bill here that the government wants to rob about 3 million pension recipients of a law-promised valorization. The SPD just doesn't agree with him. We do not agree with this, so in any case we want to delay to the maximum, there are only 20 of us, there are big odds against us, and we will continue to explain to you here that it is wrong to rob Czech pensioners. Now a colleague will take over after me, and of course I'll turn myself in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u3	Thank you. Now I have had an application under the agreement of two clubs that President Babiš will perform, he is not here, so now it is President Radim Fiala's turn. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u4	Madam President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me briefly speak to the Government of Petr Fiala's proposal to amend the Pension Insurance Act, which the Government and Minister Jurečka want to recover from pensioners on average CZK 1,010 a month. I stress that, not in a one-time manner, what some comments might make it look like, but permanent. In the case of old-age pensioners, it is a life-long withdrawal of CZK 1,100 from their pension, i.e. in many cases tens of thousands of crowns. This antisocial decision by the government of Petr Fiala on a major reduction in the remuneration of pensions already incurred by their beneficiaries is arbitrary, incorrect and shameful. From both the technical and political point of view, the complete basis, the absolute political alphabet, is that this statutory valuation of pensions should have been reflected in the draft law on the State Budget, either in the standard chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or in the budgetary reserve. The Ministry of Finance is primarily responsible for this major failure, and it is necessary to draw from this the relevant personnel responsibility, including because, at first a few days ago, Minister Stanjura argued that there was no money in the budget for the extraordinary remuneration of pensions in June, and he and the government justified both the need to reduce the need for valorisation and the need to discuss this shameful amendment in an accelerated regime of legislative emergency. We criticized the regime of legislative emergency here all yesterday with the fact that it also contradicts the constitution that the legislative process did not go as it should, or does not go as it should, because about 65 legislators who wanted to express themselves in the debate on legislative need and had full right to do so were simply not allowed to do so. This means that I believe that voting on legislative emergency will be one of the reasons why this whole amendment of the law will reach the Constitutional Court. [[18.30 hours]] But let's keep going. A few days later, we saw the Minister's statement that, on the contrary, there is money in the budget for pension valorisation, even if it were to be paid the way it should be, i.e. by increasing the pension merit by 11.5 %. This is a logically inexplicable turn of view and also a reason for serious doubt and judgment about the competence of this government and its individual members, and this is a very sad finding for everyone, especially for citizens. In this context, I consider it very important to mention the recent statement by Professor Vostatek, one of our greatest experts in pension systems. This undoubtedly undoubtedly states that international comparisons are below average in the case of our valuation mechanism, its systemicity and its relationship to regular increases in pensions. Government politicians are often or mainly making excuses for having no information at the time of the budget for 2023 on how high the rate of inflation will be at the end of 2022 and at the turn of the year, in connection with their antisocial decision on a rapid reduction in pensions, which is beyond the edge of constitutionality. However, this government, like the previous governments, which constituted state budget deficits, which are great upside down, was supposed to start to fight inflation, and unfortunately, it fought and did not fight hard enough, and that is why, of course, the pension valorisation is taking place. In addition to the countless predictions of renowned economic analysts and the fact that double-digit annual inflation was here for the whole of last year, and that there was no reason to believe that by waving a magic wand, particularly when the government didn't do anything about it, there was another essential fact - the government's introduction of unreasonablely high price ceilings on electricity and gas. These ceilings were introduced by the government's decision last September, when there was still enough time for possible adjustments to the state budget for 2023, because each average knowledgeable economist had to know what price jump for these commodities would take place from 1. 1. 2023, when fixed electricity and gas contracts ended for millions of households and prices about 200 per cent lower than government ceilings, this price leap would have a major impact on inflation growth in January 2023. If we admit that the Minister of Finance and other members of the government missed this little thing, in quotation marks, because there was no mention of energy prices last year... There is another strong argument and this is the forecast of the Czech National Bank from 4 August last year. I repeat, August 4th! What does this prognosis say? In particular, this is a forecast for the outlook and inflation. The Czech National Bank predicts that the annual headline inflation rate will be 16.5% - in fact it was 17.5 percent, in my opinion, and particularly on this issue, it is a very accurate estimate. So you had this information before August. Are you that surprised by the one percent difference? Are you serious? This entitles you to chop your valorizations by more than 50 percent? Are you making fun of the citizens - if I don't use a sharper expression? And I don't think anyone could be mad at me for that. And what does another official report by the Czech National Bank say at the beginning of last November? I quote: "Inflation will rise above 18 percent in the fourth quarter of this year." You don't tell citizens the truth, you don't play fair, and you can't apologize and tolerate that. Anyone can make mistakes, but cheating on the people who finance you is inexcusable. You had all the relevant information, and you had it on time, and you lie to citizens and pensioners in an attempt to hide your ignorance. And I will add the comments of a member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank Jan Frait from the turn of last year and this year - I quote from an interview with him: "Inflation in January will be a shock. What kind of inflation do you expect in January? We're in the middle of creating a new forecast, but I don't think it's a secret that we're expecting a month-on-month shock in January. Annual inflation will rise from less than 16 percent somewhere above 18 percent. On what will this January jump be based? There is a substantial increase in energy prices. Electricity will rise to the price ceilings as well as the end of the austerity tariff from the end of last year. The impulse in food prices is relatively strong." End of quote. So the Czech National Bank completely fulfilled its role, informed the politicians in time, and they ignored it. This is an incredible dilettantism that has no parallel in modern Czech history in such a serious matter. The government and the Treasury have completely collapsed. "It was worse than a crime, it was a mistake," said Napoleonův's police minister Joseph Fouché once. It totally fits this situation. And even worse is cheating citizens, I add. I'll do it again. The government had at its disposal all the expert data on inflation developments sufficiently in advance. Therefore, she had to know with great precision that in June, an extraordinary valorisation of pensions would have to take place. After all, we talked about it with the press, everybody knew. And she had to know how much it was going to be and what the cost would be for her. Therefore, any government argument that has been made publicly in support of an attempt to turn a pensioner over the money to which they are entitled under the law is odd. Not to mention the unconstitutional dimension of the government's proposal, the government's efforts to push through this proposal in a shortened legislative negotiations in the context of a state of legislative emergency and the clear retroactivity of the proposal. "There has never been such an intense effort in our country to surprise the public, and the public has never been flooded with such a surge of lies," says Radim Valenčík in connection with government efforts to reduce the legal valorisation of another expert on pension systems, Professor Radim Valenčík. "It's a common theft. It doesn't change the fact that the thief is to become temporarily controlled dilettants who have the task of devastateing our country. Theft is not allowed to be voted on in Parliament either, and above all there are no grounds for this theft." End of quote. So what the government is proposing is only less than 50% of the remuneration of pensions compared to the legal claim. This is a significant reduction in the real value of pensions. So, really, all pensions will be reduced by almost a tenth, much like real wages last year. Thus, the result of this government's annual work is a significant decline in both workers' wages and now pensions. At the same time, current inflation is primarily cost-effective, and it cannot be easily stopped, especially if the government is not fighting against it. So it may well be that a tenth of the pensions may be lost by seniors, disabled, several years in a row, with the current significant depreciation of savings. Our pension system is ongoing. Thus, through this system, every working person invests in his future income. It is therefore a technical terminology fully covered by a guardian's property of the type of insurance or, for example, accident insurance. In this area, it is unimaginable that the insurance company would abolish the applicable rules under which the insurance was concluded and that it would pay only half the amount of the insurance. This would clearly end in court with a very expected result. Recently, government officials have been talking about intergenerational solidarity, or about the fact that pensioners are supposed to be in solidarity with others, with workers. It is a complete nonsense and a denial of the principle of solidarity, which works in such a way that economically active and healthy citizens are in solidarity with those due to old age or illness or permanent ill health, not the other way around. Above all, the logic of the functioning of an ongoing pension system does not have anything to do with intergenerational justice and sustainability of the system. The main, current pensioners have already demonstrated solidarity, fully by working hard for the Czech state all their lives, decades. They paid taxes, health and social insurance, so the elderly, they got prepaid, they did and they did theirs. And now it's time for him to perform the legal obligations he has against them. [[18.40 hours]] What must be said here is that the government wants to address the effects of valorisation on the balance of the budget only unilaterally, at output at the expense of pensioners by reducing the amount of valorisation, while there is also a second and much better option - to fight inflation, against its causes, to reduce it, and thus, in the future, to reduce the amount of money for valorisation, because price growth will be low and a lower amount of money will be logically sufficient to compensate the government. But the government doesn't do that, and unfortunately, it doesn't think about it, because it doesn't talk about it or discuss it. On the contrary, its policy is hard upside-down, as if inflation would suit them. They will have higher income thanks to inflation and will reduce their debt thanks to inflation, but of course the middle class will pay it, all citizens of the Czech Republic will pay it, and that is the bad thing. This is the essence and principle of pension valorization and its main reason - to protect a socially very vulnerable group of pension recipients from enormous price fluctuations, from price increases. And I add that price growth, inflation, now affects pensioners much harder than other citizens, because the composition of their so-called consumer basket is different from that of people of working age. It consists of goods and services whose growth is dramatically higher than average inflation growth, because pensioners spend most of their income on rent, energy, water, food and medicines. Just if they're short on money, they have to choose whether to pay rent, food, or medicine, and these are now commodities where annual price increases range from 50 to 150 percent. I will mention the opinion of Professor Krebs of the University of Economics, another legendary expert on pension issues. Professor Krebs says clearly in an interview for the weekly: "The government has come up with a proposal to change the valorisation formula late. Such changes should have been submitted last year and thoroughly discussed. It is also not clear now how further valorisation will take place. And I add that according to my personal forecasts, based on how I read the technical materials and how I predict the development of inflation, this year we are going to have one extra valorisation of pensions, in autumn, September or October, at an interval of 7 to 10 percent of the so-called retirement inflation. I'm saying this publicly and completely selfless, so that the government and ministers of Jurečka and Stanjura can't say when it comes down to it that they didn't know anything. No later than May and maybe earlier, we'll know if I was right." Professor Krebs also confirms what I said at the outset of this speech, namely that the seniors will lose their money in the years to come, because all further valorisations will be calculated from a lower base, in this case from a lower credit component of pensions. And so the government wants the pensioner's turnover on average of CZK 1 010 per month only until the nearest valorisation, and then of course it will get even worse, because it will always be a higher amount per month. And Professor Krebs adds one more thing where we are in agreement. The point is, lately, we have literally been overwhelmed by a number of proposals from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the area of pensions, one worse than the other. However, if we look at these proposals more closely, we will find that these are only parametric changes to the current situation, and there is no pension reform. In addition to an unconstitutional proposal to reduce pension valorization, a legitimate response and deservedly mainly negative and recent government proposal to increase retirement age to 68 years. What does Professor Krebs have to say about this? "Although life expectancy increases, life expectancy stagnates. Today we have a practically flexible retirement age because it is possible to leave up to five years earlier and the later retirement is not limited. At present, there is no need to raise the issue of increasing retirement age and to address earlier retirement for demanding professions. So far, only some professions of rescue forces have been selected, but it should be much wider. It must be noted that the increase in retirement age will result in an enormous increase in disability pensions and early pensions, so saving in the pension system will not be big, rather the opposite." That's the end of Professor Krebs' quote. Moreover, the proposal to increase the age limit for retirement, presented by the government coalition, cannot cover a wide range of socio-economic variables of today's life in the Czech Republic. For example, the uncertain health status of a large part of the population and the constant increasing stress burden of contributors to the ongoing pension pillar, the accumulated workload of carers, the extension of the working week in the range of 41 to 48 hours for a quarter of the working Čech, the so-called ageism on the labour market, where, in particular, citizens in the pre-retired age, say over 55 years, are difficult to find new jobs, if it loses original, extensive debt and the associated existential pressure to seek tax-free forms of earnings in the shadow economy outside the classic employment ratio, these are all factors that speak against any increase in retirement age. Should this increase occur, the scope of these problems will increase even more with all the negative consequences and impacts on citizens' health and public budgets in the finals. It's an unthinkable and dangerous proposal, and the SPD will never support it. It also follows from the working materials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as reported by the server List of Reports, that the accompanying measures to increase retirement age should also be the general reduction of pensions of future pensioners to the resulting 39.5% average wage, which is an absolute outrage. And if that is true and I have no reason to doubt it after experience with this government and its socialism, the targeted efforts of the government to fatally reduce the pensions of future retirees, i.e. today's young people, today's 30s, and even younger ones. However, despite the opposite statements of government officials and the current ratio of average income to average wage of about 50 per cent, we are in the bottom half of the rankings in Europe's comparison. Many Western countries, but also Hungary, have this ratio of 70 percent and above. These are really dangerous government proposals with irreversible negative effects on citizens and their health. An increase in retirement age would not solve existing problems, on the contrary, it would bring new problems, resulting from the fact that the longer life span does not mean an automatically increasing ability to work longer. This is not the case, and in this situation it would be a clear gamble to increase the threshold for retirement age, especially if the crisis of the Czech health care sector was deepened, which was also largely caused by the current government, especially the Resistance Minister Válek, where there is a daily debate on drug shortages in the Czech Republic. I am thinking of the catastrophic lack of practical doctors, the long-term and unsolved lack of basic medicines and crazy government ideas for the introduction of excess standards in health care, which would, of course, and logically, be the most damaging to low-income patients, primarily pensioners. [[18.50 hours]] On the contrary, the government does not plan all-socially desirable changes with a positive impact on the pension system. For example, support for short-term jobs for specific target groups, especially for parents of young children, including sufficient capacities in affordable pre-school facilities and consistent system-based family policy at all, falls here. This would be a good and timeless priority, because in terms of the sustainability of our pension system, the following facts are crucial: we are, and, above all, will be witnessing an accelerated demographic crisis. The key two curves, characterizing the living Czech population from around the middle of the last century, both in terms of birth rate and mortality, speak quite fairly clearly. However the absolute population of the Czech Republic over the next fifty years, this is a circus since 2070, it has not had to change significantly and it would hold to around 10.6 to 10.8 million inhabitants, it will have to respond to significant changes in the number representation of individual generations. If, according to data published by economist Jaroslav Šulc, only about one fifth person is over 65 years old, and therefore seniors account for about 20 percent of the population of the Czech Republic, their representation in the population will increase by about half over the next few decades, i.e. to about 30 percent of the population. The number of persons on the labour market, i.e. the payers of social and pension contributions, increases slightly every year by a circus of 20 to 30,000 people. It is easy to calculate from the relationship between workers and seniors that, while it now accounts for about 223 pensioners on average for every 100 pensioners, before 2040 these payers will probably be less than 200, but with a further projected decline in 2050 to 160 and then only 146 critical in 2060. These are the starting points that clearly tell us one main thing: the situation will not be saved by partial parametric adjustments, where we will permanently increase the age limit for retirement, or when the pension ratio will be reduced and the pension will be turned into a kind of poor pension. No, it's an imaginary road to hell. A meaningful solution is one thing, but we must act quickly, because the effects of what we do today will only be fully reflected after the year 2040. The solution is a coherent system of massive and long-term effective family measures, which will lead to a permanent growth in birth rates above 2.1 of the child per woman, which also means a permanent increase in population, and shifted to the pension system dictionary, a permanent increase in pension insurance payers, which is the only key parameter in our pension system. Thus, it is particularly important that young working families are not afraid to have a third child. I consider it extremely important in this context to mention the results of NMS Market Research's Autumn 2019 survey, which states that 33 percent of parents will not have a third child solely for financial reasons, i.e. due to a lack of finance, and 17 percent of parents will not do so because of unresponsive housing, which is a very similar issue, and that it is therefore a decision enforced by external circumstances which the State may influence. According to 43 percent of the respondents to this survey, raising the so-called maternity allowance and parental allowance would help families the most. 18 percent of respondents would then see an increase in the tax advantage on children as the greatest aid. These are the long-term priorities of the SPD, which we have already incorporated into concrete bills blocked and lying here in the Chamber of Deputies. And let's add a comment from Helena Horská, an economist of the current government, who stated in the bank association's material that the most families with three or more children are among low-income groups with basic or unfinished education and, on the contrary, at least among college students, and that if the state wanted to motivate families to have more children, it had to target in particular the middle class. I'm coming to a conclusion. The reform of a pro-family policy aimed at continuing support for a higher birth rate is a fundamental basis for any sustainable and meaningful effective pension reform. This reform must include tax reform, particularly in the area of tax advantages for carefree children of working parents, in the direction that working families will not pay income taxes during child education and low-income families will receive so-called tax bonuses. Furthermore, there is an effective state housing policy based on advantageous government guaranteed marital loans and targeted state support for housing and rental housing, and then there is also a wide range of pro-family measures across different departments, state support for short-term work for parents, sufficient capacity in pre-school facilities and schools of all types, enough children's doctors and so on. What clearly does not belong here is to rob current pensioners in the form of an unconstitutional amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which we are discussing here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to speak in the utmost substance here and discuss, from my point of view, the most important aspects and contexts of the government's valorisation amendment, and also why we are in favour of this amendment not being discussed today, including those that are not spoken of publicly. I relied on my claims on specific sources, which I mentioned as well as the quotes used. I have dealt with the problem of the pension system quite in detail, not only in connection with this government amendment, and I quite responsibly say that the best we can do with it, send it to an imaginary junkyard of history, or throw it in the trash like this and pursue real pension reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Alena Schillerová will now speak with priority rights. Before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. Bašta Jaroslav apologizes all day - health reasons, Berkovcová Jana until 14:00 - health reasons, Wenzl Milan from 18:00 - health reasons, Šalomoun Michal takes back his apology from 15:45 to 18:00 and Šalomoun Michal from 20:00 to 9:00 - personal reasons. So now you have the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is almost always the possibility of not joining the crowd or refusing to do or supporting something that is not in accordance with the belief and consciousness of the individual, in other words, to act informally. Of course, it can mean trouble, condemnation in the respective collective and often many other inconveniences. But let us admit that these circumstances do not yet produce anybody from the shameful consequences that they cause by their bold conduct. By signing up for a negotiation whose ethical dimension and constitutional conformity cannot be beyond reasonable doubt, someone accepts this unethical and unconstitutional act as its own. The reason for yesterday's meeting is the intention to deprive each of the 2.7 million pensioners in the Czech Republic of 7 000 crowns this year on average and more than 12 000 crowns in each subsequent year of their lives. By simple mathematics, we are talking about tens of thousands of crowns, which are to be deprived of old age, but also of disabled pensioners, namely their grandchildren, children, relatives. Are you forced to let that happen? You're not. Are there justified reasons for doing so? They don't exist. Is it highly likely that your actions will lead to an unlawful act with far-reaching additional damage in the form of backfilling, including accessories? bezesporu. [[19.00 hours]] In these days, each of you is a sovereign who can send this shameful intention to the junkyard of history and thus allow the established and legitimate expectations of pensioners to be fulfilled regarding the extraordinary valorisation of pensions. Each of you is a sovereign who can let the Minister of Finance Stanjura fulfill his words widely quoted in Sunday and Monday media, according to which he is prepared to live up to the state's mandatorial expenses, whether within an approved budget or even his amendments. Please don't be fooled. There is no threat of economic damage by fulfilling the valorisation mechanism. It is only a built-in stabiliser, which distributes at least partially to the part of our company that is economically inactive and has no other way of resisting inflation. The inflation revenues of public budgets, ladies and gentlemen, this year according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance will increase by CZK 534 billion compared to 2021, the revenues of public budgets will increase by CZK 627 billion in 2024 compared to 2021 and another CZK 716 billion in 2025. Please do not approach the unfair game of the head of the state register, who is trying to create the impression that the state budget has only a spending party. He really doesn't. I really believe and want to believe that there is still a high chance that most of you simply reject this attempt by the government to resolve the failure of two specific ministers by an unconstitutional law, in addition to being pushed through an unconstitutional state of legislative emergency, which still has a turnover of a quarter of our country's population for their legal financial claim. I called on the government to withdraw this bill to allow the authorities to pay the seniors what they were legally entitled to. After all, this is no longer just a criticism from the opposition that could leave the government's majority relatively cold, but we hear critical voices from the Senate. Before yesterday, President Petr Pavel, elected President, declared his doubts publicly. A critically and quite clear statement was made by not one renowned constitutional lawyer, but I will get to that later. There's no reason to intrude on our rule of law just because of the failure of two ministers, or the Prime Minister. There is still the possibility to withdraw this proposal, not to support it, to pay out the June Valorisation under the law and to negotiate with the opposition, i.e. with us, about setting up the valorisation mechanism for the future. I'm sure we're ready for that. You know very well that otherwise there is a blunder for which each and every one of you will be morally responsible. In doing so, we can prevent this delusion from happening here and now. Please don't be manipulated into an uncomfortable role just because someone didn't do their homework because, as he admitted himself, he just didn't have time for them because of his personal priorities in foreign policy. I'll be quite specific. The primary cause of this unnecessary, unfortunate and shameful situation is nothing more than the notorious resistance of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura to real numbers than the stubborn refusal to include the real and mandatory expenditures of the state into the state budget. Yes, it was much more important for the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura to have a nice Baťa number 295 billion deficits in the draft budget than to be responsible for projecting at least the mandatory spending of the state where extraordinary statutory pension valorisation belongs. I believe none of you can imagine planning his family's budget without counting the mortgage, rent, electricity payments, or any other of your mandatory expenses. Why? After all, such a budget would do you more harm than good, and right after the first payment, you'd find it better to throw it in the trash and start counting honestly. This is what happened to the Treasury Minister with the state budget, although he knew very well that January inflation would not fall below 5%, thus the rule of law would result in an extraordinary June pension valorisation obligation. He didn't put a penny in her budget. So the head of the state register answered questions about how he intends to live up to legal valorization with a jargon that he would find the money somehow. His legendary answer by journalists of Czech Television at a press conference on the treasury implementation of the state budget for 2022 is now a well deserved hit of the Internet. There is no doubt that he actually knew very well that he would want to Jurečka the Marian with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. On 8 December 2022, the National Budget Board issued an opinion in which the government pointed out that extraordinary Valorisation would take place, and yet there is not a crown in the budget. At the same time, the National Budget Board warned that, given the high amount to be spent on extraordinary valuation, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it would be possible to cover it from savings in other state budget items. As of December, I would like to warn you that apart from the lack of funds for extraordinary valorization, Zbyněk Stanjura does not count on another 31 billion for SFDI investment. On January 11, I asked for an extraordinary classification of the item called Budget Chaos of Minister Stanjura. I justified it by the fact that the real state budget deficit is about 100 billion larger than the PR marketing budget presented by the government. On January 12, I interviewed Prime Minister Petr Fiala asking for an explanation of the serious shortcomings in the way in which the National Budget Act for 2023 was drawn up. I drew attention to an extremely alarming situation where the Ministry of Finance did not, of course, count the objective and obvious expenditure for tens of billions of crowns into the State Budget Act. In a similar vein, the President of the National Budget Board, Mojmír Hampl, expressed himself. I asked whether the most important law determining the economic and political constraints of the government should be seen as a piece of paper where the missing tens of billions are not worth the attention of the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, with the Prime Minister's reply to this interview, it was clear that he was either unaware of the severity of the problems or conscious of the problem and deliberately pretending that there was no problem. Today we see how he chose a short-sighted and irresponsible strategy. [[19.10 hours]] On January 17, 2023, when we proposed to the government to be distrusted, I warned you here at this counter about accounting tricks that could not end otherwise than delusions. I clearly told the Finance Minister that I am not going to accept his way of budgeting, and I am going to devote myself to it on the budget committee. I pointed out that we are also considering submitting a complaint to the SAO. I said, and now, please, here I quote my words, and I quote, "The state budget is not a piece of paper, but it is the law of the year. There is no way that tens of billions would be sitting there in January. Such falsifying of fiscal statements could result in a threat to the legitimacy of the Czech Republic not only with international institutions but also with the reputation of the Czech Republic with our creditors. It is a red line that no finance minister has yet crossed, and I will demand that these irregularities, in the range exceeding CZK 150 billion, be explained to the Chamber of Deputies. It is not possible to stand idly by as the budget process in the hands of a five-wheeler loses its original purpose and abandons and abandons the principle of fidelity and the truth of the budget. Let us not forget that the state budget is adopted in the form of law and the laws must be respected." The end of my quote then. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is convicted of all relevant documents of the Ministry of Finance from last year that his office knew about extraordinary valorization. The fiscal outlook of November 2022 predicts the need for extraordinary valorisation of CZK 20 billion, which is expected in fiscal prediction and prediction of structural deficits. I quote from the fiscal outlook approved by the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Finance, which states on page 7, that "the structural deficits in the forecast and outlook are estimated at 3.3 percent of GDP for 2023 followed by a decline to 3 percent of GDP in the years 2024 and 2025. The year-on-year deterioration in 2023 is due primarily to further exceptional remuneration of pensions and discretionary measures on the income side, in particular in respect of value added tax.' This means, ladies and gentlemen, that even an extraordinary valuation of CZK 20 billion would, according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, objectively not lead to any extraordinary economic damage to justify the state of legislative emergency, and I consider it symbolic that roughly the same amount, i.e. 14 billion a year, could have been obtained by the government in the budget if it had not criminally abolished a functional instrument to limit unaccredited payments, i.e. electronic record of sales. But let's keep going. From an interview for Saturday's Law, one might get the impression that the Minister of Finance might want to start saying that he was still counting on the budget with extraordinary valuations. I quote: "Our current proposal envisages spending over 15 billion." So it's not a zero. I am glad that he dropped this provenly false argument soon after all, and on Sunday he admitted to Václav Moravec that he did not really count this item in the budget despite the agreement of all ministerial experts that there will indeed be valorisation. All the more surprising is his Sunday assurance that even in the current state budget, money for valorizing the adoption of the amendment will be found. I think that this is a rather fundamental and definitive argument for all who, perhaps by Sunday, still believed that there was some plausible reason for the state of legislative emergency. It doesn't exist! The only real disaster that could possibly justify the state of legislative emergency is the inaction of the economic ministers of this government. Why are pensioners to defend their legal claim by a minister who has not yet introduced a single relevant budget savings? It is characteristic that it is the Minister of Finance from the ODS, who will enter history as a minister who has indebted the Czech Republic most of all ministers in history in one year. In the 12 months of 2022, debt increased by 429 billion, which is the absolute fastest pace in the country's history, a number that even surpassed the year 2020 with a closed economy. This government was able to indebt every Čech by 41 000 crowns in 12 months. Excuses about war or high energy prices really don't stand. We handed over public finances as the sixth best in the EU, Minister of Finance Stanjura moved us to eighth place in one year. But all countries had to deal with these crises, and we were no exception. Thanks to inflation, the government has record revenues and does not deliberately talk about them. According to the elderly, they try to create a sense of shame for perhaps getting what is legally theirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I don't have to remind you that we only have 25 percent inflation in food. People who drown electricity pay from year to year, every month and more than twice that, 5,000 crowns a month ago, 12,000 crowns a month today. That's a very specific case of a senior from Ostrava. And that means one thing. From this you shamelessly collect taxes and even want to increase them! The Treasury collected 137 billion more in taxes year on year only in the state budget. They were chosen from the people, chosen from the elderly. Public budget revenues will also increase significantly in the coming years. According to the fiscal outlook, which I just quoted on his side 10 by CZK 280 billion in 2023, by another 93 billion in 2024 by another 89 billion in 2025. Of course, this is always against the raised base, as well as for pensions, where by raising the base you haunt. So please, each side has two coins, not only does it give - Dal, but also Dal. You don't spare, only the Ministry of Finance has increased the number of officials in the year of your government from 1,438 to 1,450. The number of officials is also growing at other ministries or at the Office of the Government. You create new sections, you establish armies of political advisors, you have dozens of political deputy. You created a new ministry for nothing. The work of the Minister for European Affairs and his office could belong to the Prime Minister. The work of the Minister for Legislation and his office could belong to the Ministry of Justice. Minister for Science, an important agenda that was successfully managed by the Prime Minister during the reign of Andrej Babiš. You're not dealing with income. Last year, the Minister of Finance did not exceed CZK 54 billion from the EU. You canceled the EET, which brought 33 billion crowns and could help further. You have left hundreds of billions of record revenue to energy companies, you have not used the Presidency to tax large global companies. You do not invest, you do not support the economy in growth, and that is why we are one of the few in the EU in recession. [[19.20 hours]] It is logical, because businessmen who face the fastest decline in sales in the history of the statistical office want to increase their contributions by up to 60 percent. If you are not dealing with the revenue side of the budget and you are doing a procyclical policy - what else is increasing taxes, reducing investment and reducing valuations - you cannot be surprised that you will miss money in the future. You don't work honestly, you don't solve systemic problems. If you have a problem with valorization, you should have come to the House a long time ago. You know that pension reform is also a topic on which we want to work in the long term. But so far, no sign of anything systemic on your part. What we won't be working on is a robbery in broad daylight. The current situation was caused directly by the Minister of Finance, who even admitted on Sunday that he had not yet had time for economic policy in the questions of Václav Moravec. He didn't have time! Why didn't he have time? It's simple. First they counted my pictures on Instagram with their advisors for six months, then they went to Brussels for six months to take pictures of themselves, where they did nothing at all. Finally, they've been running a presidential campaign for two months, which is why we're here today, let's face it, actually, we are, that's the real cause of the state of legislative emergency. You knew very well that you would touch the elderly's money, but you were afraid that this malice would affect the presidential election. So you've been waiting for your preferred candidate to win them, and then you go through the House for strength in a state of legislative emergency. But just to be clear, pension valorization is happening because the government has totally underestimated the fight against inflation, has fallen asleep in the ceiling of prices for energy producers and thus exposed us to the highest year-on-year increase in electricity prices in the EU. It did not, on the proposal of the ANO movement, temporarily reduce the VAT on food and thus allow them to be increased by more than 25 per cent. The seniors are the ones who are most affected by this increase. After all, what do the seniors feel more sensitive than the price of food and the rising cost of housing? But neither can escape, and both are the main reasons why the Czech Republic has record inflation for more than a year. From every thousand grand crown that the senior spends due to the price of food, the state cashier receives at least 150 crowns. How dare you say that seniors are the winners of inflation? You're saying the seniors are having a really good time considering their average wage, which is why you need to get your hands on it now. Desperate argument! The short-term deviation we are seeing is not due at all to the growth of pensions, but to the decline in real wages. Retirement doesn't really hurt. The fact that other people are poor is the fault of this government. At the horizon of two or three years, when inflation returns to normal and wages start to rise again, the ratio will automatically start to return to 45 percent. You don't need any intervention, you don't need care. The government's role should focus instead on raising average wages, unless it is the government's policy to do everything to make the decline in real wages the norm. I can assure you that the government of the ANO movement does not consider it a normal state, our shadow government. You claim that the valuation scheme favours high-income pensioners. Not to mention that I don't know any high-income pensioners, I would like to draw your attention to the table in the draft of your shameful law, which refutes this argument more than perfectly. I showed her here yesterday. We simply watch the failure of the state's economic policy live. The government has embarked on the collapse of all the securities that have been enforced by the ANO movement between 2014 and 2021. Just open the paper or turn on the TV and no one can remain in doubt that during the reign of this five-calice nobody can be sure of anything, especially property and money. While we are now being crushed by the third largest inflation in the EU under the reign of Petr Fiala, and the real income of the Čech is falling the fastest of all developed countries in the world, here, in a state of legislative emergency, we are dealing with a plan to rip off pensioners. You don't like educational. The government wants to increase VAT to the most sensitive items such as heat, water and medicine, child food or mass transport. For businessmen who face the fastest decline in sales in the history of the statistical office, you want to increase the contributions. A reduction in parental allowance is being prepared, doubling the real estate tax. We have the most expensive electricity and gas in the EU due to the purchasing power, the Czech economy is in recession and the five-calice is clearly going to repeat Nečasův and Kalouskův's mistake and cross us into poverty, even more misery and, ultimately, even more debt. But we are here to remind you that the path to balanced budgets certainly does not lead anywhere in the world through the asphyxiation of the economy. The YES movement has repeatedly proven that the Czech Republic can have balanced and surplus budgets without tax devastation of the country's economy. We have done this with the exception of two years that have been marked by the total covido closure of the economy. Although the current government would like to erase this from people's minds, I repeat once again that the state budget for the government of the ANO movement between 2016 and 2019 was essentially balanced every year or in surplus. The recipe for the Czech Republic is a gradual consolidation plan, the fight against tax evasion and fraud, where the current government has lost tens of billions of crowns by the reprehensible abolition of the EET, the fight against corruption. The recipe is the pro-growth investment and the efficient use of European money, where, as I have already mentioned, Minister Stanjura is failing completely, and only last year he could not make out the incredible 54 billion money that we had already prefinanced from the Czech national budget. It is appropriate to abolish the unnecessary ministries of the invisible and doing nothing that no one even knows, to stop creating new sections at ministries, new shops, new political deputy posts, and to start saving up again for the operation of the state. The YES movement knows how to do this, because every year we were able to save at least 5% on the operation of the state, even at the time of the covid. We are not going to accept that after eight years of governance of the YES movement, when we were not only fiscally responsible but also prosperous countries of prosperous people, a government has come to make us the only country in the EU from year to year, which, in proportion to GDP, deepens its debt, which stifles its economy and thus only deepens the deficit, debt and international position of the Czech Republic. The prosperous countries of the poor? There's no such way, it's a contradiction. We will not stand by as the government repeats the textbook economic errors that ruined tens of thousands of households in the past crisis, causing massive social unrest and the collapse of hundreds and thousands of companies. We won't allow a robbery in retirement. Our MP has already proved and will prove that he is ready for a very long meeting. We're not just fighting for seniors to get what's legally theirs. I am convinced, and I repeat again, that we are also fighting for the rule of law. How does the coalition want people to obey the law when the government itself doesn't want to follow it now and is trying to change it back to suit them? [[19.30 hours]] We believe that the change in the valorisation mechanism in the form in which it is presented by the government is unconstitutional in two respects. We see the first unconstitutionality in the fact that it takes money from the elderly, which has already been legally claimed, and therefore legitimate expectations. The government wants to take away the elderly on average of 7,000 just this year. And the second counterconstitution is in the way of this hearing. The government cannot arbitraryly declare a legislative emergency unless conditions have been met for it. It is bypassing the legislative process and inadmissibly shortening the rights of the opposition. And of course it is, and again here I repeat, that we are prepared to file a constitutional complaint in the event of the violent enforcement of this amendment. If the government and the coalition continue to insist on this pointless proposal, we have no choice but to try to prevent and exploit it - and we are already using it - all the options we have as a opposition. I repeatedly call on the government to withdraw this bill to pay the elderly what they have already been entitled to under the law. After all, Minister Stanjura himself says - now again - that there is money in the budget. It is not only about the criticism of our opposition, I understand that this would leave the coalition cold, but the Senate is once again hearing critical voices. President Petr Pavel, once again, said publicly, a few days ago, that he had doubts about this law, and a number of constitutional lawyers made public statements. The coalition just stays on its own. He's pushing his bill with a bulldozer, but this whole thing could end in a hard-to-find confidence in our entire state of law. Download the proposal, pay the June Valorization by law and come discuss with us how to set up the valorisation mechanism for the future. We're ready for this. I say again here - we're ready for this. And there's one more thing I need to remember. The fact that we are here to act and act on the second night, and perhaps some other nights, is merely the responsibility of the coalition. In the previous parliamentary term, obstructions were also common on your part, on the part of those who were in opposition at the time, only EET was approved for almost a year. Elections to media councils blocked the opposition completely, the usual were ten-hour pauses of five opposition clubs. I remember myself when the final vote on the EET took two whole days and Zbyněk Stanjura was reading some maybe 800 amendments. However, we have always respected that the meeting day has a beginning and an end. That's not what the current coalition wants to respect, because it doesn't matter that the labor code against employees is being violated here again. In conclusion, I don't complain, I take it the way it is, because people have chosen us here to fight for them, we understand it as a public service, and we will do it. I'm just warning you that this gamble will come back to you very, very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u7	Also thank you and another with priority rights is signed by President Andrej Babiš. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u8	Good evening, Madame is terrified, I do not have a speech - Madam President, fellow citizens, senior citizens, fellow Members, I have a lot of paper, a lot of paperwork - I do not have a short speech like Alenka, who actually said the most important things, because it is truly incredible. [[He responds to the amazement of a stenographer over a thick stack of papers in several plates that he brought to the speaker's counter.]] Unbelievable that this government is worth having such a shame for ridiculous money, and Mr. Stanjura has it, 19 billion. It's 0.85% of the state budget expenditure this year. I don't understand at all. I called on the Prime Minister to say that the 1,950,000 votes I received were populist and undemocratic, and he always accused us of dividing society - I never wanted to divide society. When someone split up the company, it was the selected media, the pro-government media. She won this five-police election and won the presidential election. Today we learned from the symbol of corruption and the one who made the 690 billion debts here, and did the business elegantly, unlike the Prime Minister who was there, that the Prime Minister is just as populist as I am. No, the Prime Minister isn't a populist. I will read again, because everyone speaks that the word populism is such a bad word, but I will read it to you again: "Populism, from the Latin expression populus - the people or in French le peuple, is a political approach consisting in trying to reach out to a commoner who believes that ruling groups do not defend or overlook his interests. " And that's exactly it. So I'm a proud populist, I've said it once before, and I'm calling on the Prime Minister once again to think about it, whether it's really worth it when the government has the money, and Minister Stanjura, even though he has some big deficit, but he's going to have hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions of income! Moreover, in 2023 alone, it will have some 340 billion, not only income, of course, mainly from inflation and tax increases, but from social security contributions. The increase of 2023/2022 is 40 billion extra. So once again, Prime Minister: I heard behind the scenes that you're gonna beat us up on Friday to have a nice weekend and to ruin our seniors' weekend because you're sorry to give them ridiculous money - it's enough money for them - 7,000 crowns, seven months, and next year, of course, it's CZK 1,000 a month, again 12,000. You don't have 19 billion? Of course you do. Mrs. Schillerová has calculated your income here because you don't really talk about income, or you keep it a secret. You're hiding the receipts, or you're destroying them like an EET, because that's your mantra. Everything we've put through here, you're destroying it. So I was talking to a journalist, and he said, "Such shortcut: ODS always raised taxes and gave a shit about retired people." Prime Minister, you can deny it now. You became president of the ODS, I think, January 18, 2014 and your predecessors in 2010 gave seniors zero, a big zero. I have a graph here. And you left us 45 crowns in 2014, the budget we inherited, with the symbol of corruption. You guys were swamping here until 2013. [[19.40 hours]] I find it absolutely scandalous when someone is talking about damage. What's that? Our seniors are a waste to you? I have here for at least an hour, I can tell you about your history, the destruction of Czech banks, the coupon, LTO and other atrocities, and if there's time, I'll read it to you. So, Prime Minister, once again, please, you have a chance now, if you're the Prime Minister, and if the Minister of Finance doesn't run the government, Stanjura, he looked like one for us. I worked with the ministers, and we told Mrs Schillerová that he simply had to find the money to invest. You're talking about an intergenerational problem. And that young generation, how is she supposed to buy an apartment? Who's ruining this economy? Of course this government, but mainly the Czech National Bank - I will get to that. Her predictions, none of them came out, none of them. Something came up: banks have a huge profit last year and, of course, they won't pay taxes this year, so your windfall tax, Mr Stanjur, is completely useless, because of course, only ČEZ will pay it. He'll pay 150 billion, but I have a big lecture to do. Madam President Pekarová said we're not suggesting anything, so I'm gonna suggest today how to bring down inflation, because that's the problem with inflation. Once again, Prime Minister, if you want to beat us, as I hear it, on Friday, you can really show here for the first time that you're Prime Minister, that you're gonna give it to those retired people, that's a huge chance, a huge chance. And I would like to assure our pensioners that we will continue to fight, even though Friday may be in a hurry, quasi-new totalitarianism that will not allow us much. By the way, we haven't spoken to us since this government came into existence. The Prime Minister never spoke to me. I went to his office here three times, I was secretly there, the press didn't know, we were normally discussing. And how many times have you approached us? Two Ukraines, yeah, Ukraine. Then the supertunnel symbol of corruption and his buddy Šťáva, it was Mr. Stanjura who called us that we might lose arbitration, yes, 15 billion. That's the shame, that's the damage to your 600 billion solar tunnel. Talking about damage and retirement is really scandalous. So, Prime Minister, once again, I beg you, you never spoke to us, Mr. Jurečka is here performing that he wants to discuss with us - well, fine. So pull it back and let's talk about it, you've got hundreds of billions of revenue. Congratulations on third place inflation - 19.1 incredible, because you didn't actually understand that what's going on, the inflation, it's your fault because you didn't hit her. We did it in November, and in December 2021 we knocked down the VAT on heat, electricity, heating and gas from 21 percent to 0. That's... that was negative inflation in November, December, and we hit 5.3. Back in those days, the ODS and the COO were putting together a poster of Babiš's precious and everything. And now, if it wasn't for inflation, if you hit her like Macron did, and that's what it's about, the electricity ceiling at the manufacturer, that's what I'm gonna get to, you'd have it like in Spain, 4.5 percent, Macron has 7 and we've got 19. But it suits you, because you simply charge hundreds of billions extra, and public budgets, incredible that there are expected - but this is all from the macroprediction of the Ministry of Finance - huge revenue from taxes. So that's it, and I'm gonna try to explain to you today how it can be done, since you've already done the economic damage and you've sold everything - we don't own anything anymore. 70 percent of ČEZ, right? Everyone wonders that sugar is expensive. Why is sugar expensive? Do the people of the European Union, when we were so excited, remember how warm was looking forward to the first chain coming and all celebrating - the way we negotiated it? [[With laughter.]] That there are seven sugar factories left, that are French and Austrian and two are ours. When it's seven manufacturers, of course, it looks like it, but it's not about them either. So that's all the damage, that's the damage. Prime Minister, I understand you don't like me. I'm a retired worker, just as you wish we'd be walking at sixty-eight, so I'm actually late. [[With laughter.]] But you could've gotten those retired people when your predecessors gave you zero. [[unintelligible]] I understand you've lost the election to me eight times, so that's been it since 2014. The ODS lost an election eight times with the YES movement, although, of course, they still interpret something else for government media. And I understand that you don't want to, because senior citizens have always been a priority for us, even though we were a minority government, even though we were with social democracy, that was a priority. And of course, now you're arguing that pensions have increased. Yes, but that's not your law. You have to do it, and if you wanted it, of course, this way and you could, you would never do it, because you're actually saying the pension ratio -- the wage ratio -- it's wrong that it evolved somehow, I don't know, 48, 49 percent. Well, the solution is simple. Add people's salaries, settle the affair, and you have it at home. You did not understand the basis that when there is a crisis, of course, there is a need for investment from the crisis. There was a government today - I'll get to that. It is interesting that it seems that the prime minister is Mrs Černochová, who actually yelled at the government about 2% of GDP in 2024 today. An incredible increase, from 111 billion to 151 billion, 40+. I don't know where you're going. I'm so curious if you're gonna spend it, if it's not all on backup, if you're really gonna buy it, and that it's coming. But you forgot about the old people again. I understand that war, yes, the media are still at war, war, war. When I was talking about peace, everyone was yelling and screaming that I was scaring the kids. Of course, nonsense, everyone talks about war all the time. So hopefully it will happen that someone will start - and there are already signals - that they will negotiate to make sure that there isn't so much war. But of course, if I have the military, I support it when 2% were originally promised in 2025 and now it's 2024. I'd like to say that even if we lose, because today we saw how the coalition treats us and doesn't talk to us, it doesn't talk. The Prime Minister doesn't speak, he doesn't speak. And I named that, twice Ukraine, once Diag Human, but it was just Mr. Stanjura, otherwise he doesn't talk to us. I don't know if he's talking to Mrs. Schillerová, but I don't think so, and Mr. Prime Minister at all. So I'd like to tell our seniors that we're gonna keep fighting. Here is a very good signal from Senator Canov, who says: "I will not raise my hand for a government proposal. I see two unconstitutionalities, this is a legislative emergency and retroactivity." So that's good news. Here the senator says that Mr Stanjura was still bragging in August about how we have - ODS - this very formula that has a cap on inflation of 5%. I don't understand, so many TV experts. Dear citizens, if you see all the people who perform there, the miraculous various economists - you must always ask who they are and who they are paying for. I saw the Minister here, he was probably the Minister of Education, not since he was sitting here, I don't know him very well, but I do know that his advisor is some world economist babbling about some concentration of food production. So just for your information, or for her information, self-sufficiency in pigs looks like we're only going to have 20 to 25 percent, so the pig will be rare. I just took a turn. [[19.50 hours]] So the senator here says that obstructions are useless, but the Senate has always bragged about being a guardian of constitutionality. And he says, I want him to always be. Let's hope so. But of course, on the party line, it's gonna turn out the way it usually is. And I think we're expecting the Senate to approve, too. We're stalling, of course. I was just asked about Prima if we were stalling. We're stalling, of course. If it is not on March 22nd in the Collection of Laws, we will simply save, if I understand correctly, our pensioners will be CZK 7,000 this year and, of course, we will continue to fight. So I repeat, we're not giving up, we'll see what the Senate has to say. And then it's Mr. President's turn. The President promised to be president of all of them, and he immediately chose to the regions where we won - the Karlovy Vary Region, Ústecký kraj, will probably still go to Moravian-Silesian, where, by the way, we settled 45 billion European funds - so that is a fantastic chance for the President, because if he takes two weeks and takes the veto on the last day, it's dry. After that, we no longer have to demonstrate before the Constitutional Court, which is, as the President has said. We live in a country where the President of the Constitutional Court talks about agrofertization. Unbelievable! So I just want to tell our pensioners that we're still fighting, and then about Friday, when it's planned, they're gonna cut us in here, so I'm already calling on the next president, Mr. Petr Pavel, to postpone the decision on March 10th, unless, of course, it's a veto. But we think we should, like Mrs. Schillerová, and I think our movement appreciates that Mr. President invited Mrs. Schillerová and Mr. Havlíček to get their opinion. He's probably having second thoughts about it, too. So here's a huge chance for him to show that if we just take it the way they say in the media that retired people vote mainly for the ANO movement, he could take this step, which is logical, which is normal, which can be justified, because it's a huge shame - what was here today. That's incredible, fucking 19 billion. The change, the change for the government, the change. Then the president could give the veto, and then it wouldn't have made it. Let's see. The President has it for five years, you know how it is. When you're elected, we know it in the movement that they often vote for someone in the communal, and then the guy finds out that he actually founded the movement and that he won the election. I think my colleagues know what I'm talking about. So the president's been there for five years, the president's gonna be there for five years now. Maybe that's what he's gonna decide, and it's gonna be positive. I'd like him to wait, because I think it's incredible. I don't understand why a government that I don't know in what, 430 days? - she wasn't even able to appear in front of the citizens and settle some bills, so why is she doing it? I don't know. I have a feeling, and I've already told you that the Prime Minister is advised by the same people - that's how it looks - as they advised Sobotek and Chovanc. Well, I don't know. I guess he feels like he's giving him good advice. The fact that this is a non-standard legislative process is clear. That such valorisation should not apply to a state of legislative emergency, also clear. And I would just like to say to the Prime Minister if he doesn't fully know who the pensioners are - but hopefully he knows it's a group of residents who have taken care of at least two generations of citizens in our country. She raised a working and contributing generation for the benefit of the state in a system that was not very supportive of past governments. It is they who deserve to be looked at with respect and will in an effort to help this group of people and to continue to integrate into society. [[unintelligible]] So, yes, retired people built our country, and I think they've done so much, and we've always supported them. In our government's programming statement, it came first. Unfortunately, this government, because as soon as it joined, was obsessed with destroying and abolishing everything we did, on April 1, 2022, they weren't even there properly yet, and they had already increased the tickets for pensioners and for children and students. Again with the ridiculous 1.9 billion crowns. So far, it's an anti-retirement government, although, of course, this is where it went down today, and a colleague of mine, Fiala, said that the consumer basket of pensioners, that the inflation was higher with pensioners than with normal families. It's still haunted here that the next generation and how it's going to be and if there's money, there won't be money. I don't know who advises the Prime Minister. The pro-government list... At first there was a headline: "We can't find a painless solution," says the Prime Minister on List 8.02 today. Then I guess they weren't dreaming, so they made it better: "The Fiala about pensions. We're about to hit the wall. We have to choose him. Record inflation" and so on. But the solution is very simple, very simple, to reverse inflation. But they don't want it. They want the money, even from the elderly. That's what this is about. And, of course, the combination of the CNB - this government - is indeed an absolute disaster. And the Prime Minister, when was that? - November 11, last year, in an interview for Lightning, he said that even retirement will not change, that he wants to do solid pension reform and that pension valorization is set up by law, so he won't actually do anything about it. And everything's changed. Everything's changed and he's forgotten about it. Now I have a nice comment from one journalist to what is actually happening in our country: "Politika in the Czech Republic can be understood and implemented quite simply and simply. First of all, we need to be clear. All those criticizing the coalition are deisolates, packages, or Putinův's agents." The others - conscious citizens - are satisfied with the government and accept the explanations provided by, for example, the head of the House of Markéta Pekarová. When Babišův's government declared a state of legislative emergency in covid, it was on the verge of legality. When she calls it out, it's okay. And that dozens of people died in covideo every day? Yes, you've always told us that. And I don't want to talk about how many have died for the covid since December 17, 2021, but unfortunately, there are also a few thousand. So that's what this is about. And Mrs Pekarová says we're the arsonists who set the fire. I don't know what it is. We ended up debting government debt at the end of 2019 with 29 per cent of GDP, and this is reported as a percentage of GDP, not as some pro-government journalists try to interpret it as otherwise. Then the covid came and we had to hold the economy. We gave 370 billion to businessmen for employment. [[20.00 hours]] The Prime Minister was surprised in a conversation that the state didn't have a record. Well, I was surprised too, he doesn't. He doesn't, unfortunately. We couldn't watch which pub takes away, pays and doesn't pay. If this government succeeds, it'll be great. Then there goes the reporter that we canceled the super gross wage. Yeah, well, I can talk about that again today, and I can repeat that canceling a super gross wage simply didn't cause inflation, it's stupid. And once again, I will prove to you that our government's population savings have increased by 903 billion by the end of 2021. But they keep repeating in the media the nonsense that by giving money to pensioners and reducing taxes, we caused inflation. Total bullshit. They're just theorists who haven't employed anyone in their lives who don't know how the world works. They keep saying that, and I don't think there's any more proof that just giving people money doesn't mean causing inflation. The inflation is completely different, and I'm gonna get to it. Here you continue the journalist: "When you know politics as Mrs Pekarová, you are not afraid of anything, nor of your actions being unconstitutional. " Mrs Pekarová relies on the fact that the President of the Constitutional Court of Rychetský is the leading exponent of anti-Babiš policy and therefore does not transfer a straw to the government on its way to progress. Do you find the actions of the Minister of Labour, Jurečka, for example, chaotic? Yes. It's been a couple of months, but the minister's handling it. He fired the head of the Labor Office, and he's going to shine a light on those who take out benefits illegally. That's the way it's supposed to be, for the poor to be strict, anyway, they're mostly deisolates. Mrs Pekarová may be more honest than Prime Minister Fiala when she says out loud that pension reform will also be promoted by the coalition by force and without agreement. I'm curious. We had so many pension committees, and it's always easy to solve the expense, but there's a problem with income, because, of course, then we're starting to talk about taxes, and it ended up as President Nerudová and Maláčová - no result. And I wish you luck if you do it by the end of 2023, that would be a real miracle, but maybe I'm wrong. So, yes, this policy, this rolling and no debate, is possible if you occupy both parliamentary chambers, the office of president, and if you have most of the media behind your back, including the public sector mainly. There's only one problem, this policy doesn't count on the possibility of free elections. So that's just the edge of what happened here today, and I think it's really incredible how ostensibly the government insists on it, and I really don't understand the Prime Minister. He could have been famous, he could have shown that he's a real prime minister, that he's not just in the numbers, that he's a prime minister, and not Minister Stanjura, all the more so, if he has the money for it, and that's ridiculous money. So if anyone's sorry that our seniors would get an extra 7,000... By the way, I have presented a one-off payment to all pensioners here, which I have already submitted on June 3, 2022, so it is truly unbelievable. Minister Jurečka bragged about how KDU contributed to the education. Well, I'd just tell him that there were only six votes for KDU-ČSL at the time. It is true that they voted, but it was, of course, the merit of our MEPs, from the ČSSD, the SPD voted in favour, the KSČM, and all of the five-wheelers, except KDU, voted against. And hopefully, Mr. Jurečka, when they voted back then, will now not let the mothers who raised the children take it away. So what does this government do for the elderly? He's taking their money. There's no medication. The Minister of Health keeps saying that something will come - not just for the children, but for the elderly, there are no drugs, but they are supposed to be. And they took their discount. So that's all about how this government treats retired people. Again, we'll do everything we can. I've already mentioned in the media that we've never organized any demonstrations before. I've never even attended any demonstrations, they've always organized against us. ANO colleagues know how it is in our country that we will put an ad and go, open an RV, and there are 1,200 people in Ostrava. And we don't know who's in there, it's not how it was organized here, that there are members. And it would be good if Prime Minister Fiala tried it sometime, let him put an ad and let him go there, who comes there... Of course, we've never had anything to hide, and we've always talked to people, we've always justified and we've always answered questions. And now let's go to the main one, and that's inflation. I already talked about it. Inflation was hit last year by a reduction in VAT, and the problem of inflation is, of course, in electricity, that's all it is, just electricity. Today, hundreds of billions are being moved from all, from citizens, tradesmen, from companies to a small number of electricity producers, small ones, maybe three groups are there, and that is hundreds of billions. And how easy it is to solve it! Macron figured it out that he'd put electricity up to 46 euros. On February 18, 2022, I stepped out here and called on Mr. Síkela to stop the megawatt at 1,500 crowns, as the Slovák have it, I think they have 65 euros and they still have it. And it's been a year and they haven't done anything. So let's see. And now it's interesting that the media is no longer quoting, because, of course, Mr Stanjura, the Minister will say, Inflation is not my problem. Well, basically, he's right, except the CNB is completely out of control. The CNB destroyed the mortgages here. We're talking about some kind of intergenerational problem. Yes, of course, here's the problem, and now I've only talked about it in a video that an employee of the state police who has to make extra money on your rack to earn 55,000, he lives in rent, he's got 11,000, 1+kk or whatever it's called, an apartment in Brno costs 6 million, and the bank wants 20 percent. And where's he gonna get a million? And it gets worse in Prague. So the CNB totally destroyed the mortgages, took hope for young people to buy an apartment. Of course, I don't know how they count or what they expect - to drop flats in half? And who's gonna buy the apartments? Well, the rich, they buy them and they keep buying them, and the foreigners, and then they rent them out. The CNB is completely out of control, completely out of control. And that bullshit, please, about Michl - Michl was my advisor until May 2017, when Sobotka fired me. I didn't have the slightest influence. [[20.10 hours]] And I'm saying I expected it to go down. Our companies export 80 per cent to the European Union, as much as there is interest - 2.5 to 3 per cent according to graduation, bond, and with us it is 7. How are they supposed to pay the mortgages? What about the people, or what about the companies that don't have a chance to take credit for the euro? The governor wondered if the firms were going from crown to euro. Logically, who wouldn't go, right? If I can, I borrow in the euro when I have the crowns, so I put them on the crowns, and the result is what? No 23.50 - yes, the strongest crown. But we are a pro-export economy, so we actually, they harm exporters, favor foreign suppliers, importers who import, of course, for a strong crown and compete with our Czech companies, which, when they are based on Czech raw materials and do not export, do here, so it is a problem. So this is the result, and the result is that eurozone supporters are getting more and more, because when Greece, which has a debt of 208 percent and they have loans for 2.5, for 3, it ceases to have logic. And who's profiting from it? Our banks, of course. Windfall tax, which is also - the Minister of Finance is not here - has also failed, because banks will, of course, report profits. Last year they have a huge increase, this year of course it will be different and it will pay ČEZ. So what's going on here? Again, it's a lie to say that when we gave people money by cutting taxes, raising salaries - yes, we raised, of course, firemen, policemen, the army, all of us, teachers, we fulfilled the 48,000. Someone here made up and fed the Prime Minister, the government, and all the five-calice politicians that giving them money caused inflation. What a stupid thing to do! So please, 31. 12. 2017, when the Czech Republic's population savings were 2 424 billion, by the end of 2021 it was 3 327 billion, a total increase in 903 billion in our government, so let someone explain to me how we could make inflation? And what was the inflation from? Of what? No, of what? Emission allowances? Yes, those who produce electricity from coal and produce it in the same way as in CEZ for 500 crowns, which makes it from the core in Dukovany or in Temelín, have written it off, which must count emission allowances. The Prime Minister criticized me before the election that I was incompetent. Well, I wrote letters, I did my best - he didn't push it either, and it's a big problem. I wanted to put a price on 30 euros in September 2021, but some Member States just don't want it. So how do you want to fight - the oil cartel, the sheiks, the oil producers will make a deal somewhere in Dubai, and what does the CNB want to do about it? It's true that a strong crown can make it cheaper, that's true, but you have no influence. The Leipzig Stock Exchange? Well, of course, if electricity prices are based on gas prices, and now there's another situation, then it costs what it costs. So the whole solution is in inflation. If we did not have the third highest inflation in Europe - the bronze medal, 19.1 - then, of course, next year, 2024 and the church restitutions, which were approved here by Mrs Němcová very strangely, there was still some chased MP and actually it was overpriced, you remember all that, so they have an inflation clause. And do you know how much this is going to cost the budget of 2024? 8 billion. And why doesn't Mr Stanjura propose a reduction in inflation, the $8 billion, why does he only propose that in the elderly? And of course, if inflation were down, our pensioners don't have to pay so much for everything, and it wouldn't be overpriced. So for January 2023 Czech Republic - inflation 19.1. Spain 5,9, Luxembourg 5,8 and France have 7. So that's it, and that's fine with the Minister of Finance, because he's got a lot of money on his way. Now, let's see what the cure is. I've already talked about it x-times. And about the inflation, so I won't forget. January, okay? So what does the Czech Statistical Office say? "Consumer prices increased by 6 percent in January compared to December and by 17,5 year on year within the EU is 19.1." There's another housing mechanism, there's some kind of influence. "This growth was significantly influenced by the end of the household's austerity tariff in the form of a contribution to energy - that was promised by the government, but after half a year it left - "electricity prices increased by 36,4 % year on year" - so this is it, this is inflation, 36,4 % - "natural gas by 87 % and aqueous by 16.3%, and by 30.3% and hot water by 44,7 %." So that's what the Czech Statistical Office says. So, of course, it's about the inflation in energy, and we've been talking about it, I've already talked about it in November and December 2021, and this government doesn't want to deal with it. But it's simple. I could talk here for two days about what we had with the ODS and ČSSD here from the creation of a separate republic to the end of the contract, and all we have left is ČEZ. So now I would like to inform here - and hopefully the Prime Minister maybe, and that is mainly the problem of the finance minister who's in charge of it, there's some supervisory board, I just heard that five-calices can't agree there, because there are some wild nominations, and I don't blame the Minister when I heard those names - and ČEZ is drowning in profit. This year, it will pay the state over 100 billion in taxes, levies and dividends. That's an announcement from February 2, 2023. He expects a year-round profit of up to 75 billion, but clean. So unbelievable. So let's see what's going on with the electricity here. Electricity export first to third quarter 2022. The volume of electricity produced in the Czech Republic increased during this period. In January to September, net electricity production, without own consumption of power plants, reached 53.9 billion kilowatt and increased by 2.7 percent year on year. The answer to the question of where the electricity produced ended is easy - it ended abroad, folks. And can anyone explain to us why in Slovakia they have CZK 1,500 per megawatt and we have 6, 7,000 and why in Poland, which almost doesn't produce electricity properly, doesn't even have the core - now they have an agreement with Američan at Westinghouse - so how is it that it's cheaper everywhere? The positive balance of exports of electricity from the Czech Republic to the surrounding countries reached almost 9.5 billion kilowatts this January to September. Now, listen. Compared to the same period last year, this is an increase of 52 percent. So we exported 52 percent more electricity in nine months last year. Because of the leaping increase in electricity prices, exports are becoming a great business. Yeah, but not for our citizens. So let's think about what electricity is when it's all lit up, everywhere, here, people, home, household, industry, shops, restaurants, everywhere - electricity is the biggest problem. That's the solution. If we had $1,500 a megawatt, we'd all be totally fine here, everybody, and it wouldn't cost a penny. Let me explain why. It wouldn't cost a crown, because it would pay ČEZ. I'll tell you the deal they should have made a long time ago. It's a matter of negotiation. So exports are becoming a great business. Detailed data of the Czech Statistical Office also demonstrate this. In January until September, it states that "the value of electricity exported from the Czech Republic increased 3.3 times to 89.8 billion crowns." You see, 3.3 times, that's 330 percent. "The Czech Republic's balance from the electricity trade reached CZK 61.4 billion and was mainly generated in the trade with Slovakia." Unbelievable. So we produce cheap, we take it to Slovakia, and the Slovák have cheaper electricity than we do. Totally crazy, totally crazy, 32.5 billion and Germany CZK 27.6 billion. [[20.20 hours]] Hello. [[He's responding to a greeting from the O.R.]] And I - the Prime Minister didn't rush the European Council when he came in. We were expecting him on the 17th - you said hello there, I'm sorry. [[He's turning to the other side of the hall.]] So 17. 12. 2021 at 12:30 we were expecting red carpet, flowers and a new government. And 16 more. 12., when he joined the Austrian Chancellor, the new German Chancellor Scholz shouted that what core, why should Čech have a core? So I explained to him that when the propellers were spinning on the North Sea, and if it wasn't for the Cheps, Bavaria was out of power. And yet it's in Austria, where they wouldn't even cook Julius Meinl's coffee, 15 percent of Austria's consumption is Czech electricity, core. Yes, so it's like in a madhouse here that we export, produce cheaply, and I'm still talking about ČEZ, of course, and we're buying expensively. This is unbelievable. And plus, of course, the stock exchanges are now... that cropping was crazy, terribly high, and luckily, the market has moved somehow. Mr Stanjura is supposed to have it in his budget, 100 billion, and he won't have to pay that much to the various electricity traders. So that's the situation. We produce electricity cheaply, we export and we have one of the most expensive in Europe. Now, look at this CEZ, that's all we have left. Yes, 280 billion dividends go abroad every year, and colleagues here are talking about something... dividend taxation. It is, of course, nonsense, because we are in the European Union and they are in a directive, we would have to do that and then we could tax it, but that is nonsense. So that's right, we sold it, we were naive, we were all looking forward to it. That's why water is mostly French, cement plants too. Banks are different. We've got almost nothing left, everything's gone, everything's gone. So what do we have left? The 30, the 70 percent in CEZ. And here's a unique chance for the state to get 100 percent of ČEZ. Of course, CEZ has 20 percent gas distribution today, CEZ has a terminal in Eemshaven in the Netherlands for five years on LNG. It was a good business, but ČEZ did it. Yes, the government signed it, that's good, and, of course, if CEZ's 100% stake were to be obtained, it could be built on that. And then, when the government gets it - and I repeat, it all pays for CEZ because it's drowning in profit - so if the government gets 100 percent, we parked lithium there. The new government isn't doing anything about it. So there's lithium, there's 20 percent gas, there's a LNG terminal rental. They could have bought RWE bins, and they could have built a major state power company at this firm. That's -- yes, can anyone say why we didn't do it? Well, that's because no one could imagine what would happen. Yeah, we could have had a glass ball, but I had it once, and it didn't go well, so we didn't know, but now it's on the table, so why don't they? So, Prime Minister, at today's stock market price, 30 percent of ČEZ is the value of 66,000 817 338. I got that from yesterday. Now, if you look at the dividend payout that CEZ pays, and of course the state gets the 70 percent, the minority have received a total of 30.8 billion since 2017, right? And it's clear that the majority shareholder, if he acts like a shareholder, and I say, yes, there are minority investors, there is a need to treat them fair, so they won't want to split it, so they probably won't want to make a deal, but you just have to convince them. The project where you want to divide ČEZ into a business part and into a production part - again become a bummer because they leave the state to produce, and if the state doesn't have a business distribution, how will it sell? So I'm saying I'm fundamentally against it. Now buy it out. I mean, there's a lot of oligarchs in there, they're well-buyed, and now they're gonna get a package. They would get 166 billion, that's the price of the shares, and plus, of course, some bonus, but somebody has to negotiate. So tell them you got 30 in five years, all right. I don't know, I'm not here to negotiate for you. But if it costs 250 or 200 or I don't know, it can still buy ČEZ, which is drowning in profit. I mean, you wanted to lend him money for the Lip Stock Exchange and the others, so now do it, Prime Minister, and then you can cut the power to all 1,500 and you'll be the most famous here. I only want you well. Retirement - nothing, no response. So the state would get 100 percent, and it can build on it, because of course, if it has a 100% firm, it can work. And what did Mr. Stanjura do? Mr. Stanjura, the minister, came up with a windfall tax, but of course it's not going well. 17, actually. 2. 2023 bank profits went down and the state wouldn't raise 33 billion, no. It says here, Law: "The Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura estimated last November that the state would only collect CZK 33 billion on it in the case of banks this year. However, this will probably not happen according to many economists, because banks prefer to leave some of the money to clients through the interest rate of deposits and, at the same time, in cooperation with their foreign owners, they can proceed to so-called tax optimizations." Well, when we were at the Ministry, the Financial Administration was checking to see if these foreign investors were siphoning each other under different pretenses and lowering the tax base. "The banks concerned will probably proceed to various forms of optimization in order to reduce their tax base this year. It is therefore a question of how much recovery from the bank's extraordinary profits will support strong deficit public finances," said Trinity Bank chief analyst Lukáš Kovanda a few days ago. "The special tax will be calculated from the profit of the previous year. It should concern the six largest banks, i.e. Česká spořitelna, ČSOB, Komerční banka, UniCredit Bank, Raiffeisenbank and MONETA Money Bank. Česká spořitelna will announce the results of last year's management at the end of February, but for example ČSOB announced that its profit increased by 9 percent last year to 17.5 billion, but in the fourth quarter it decreased." So it looks like windfall tax of course, it starts in 2024, when it's billing, in June 2024, and now it's going on backup. And as far as I know, it will eventually cost the whole of ČEZ, 150 billion. But buy it first, buy it and make a great business for this country and everyone. So once again, it would be really good if the Prime Minister had ordered the Treasury Secretary to convene an extraordinary general meeting to negotiate. Musk Elon put an offer on Twitter and got 100 percent, didn't he? And yet Emmanuel Macron did it with EDF. So what I think is very important, not to mention that ČEZ has an undivided profit of 200 billion, 200 billion! And please don't let the state get its production again. [[20.30 hours]] Today there is an article on how the new environmental minister wants to end coal in 2033, or when it is, and ČEPS is shouting that there will be no electricity because Dukovany is due to start in 2036. So there are things the government should be dealing with. So if you do that, Prime Minister, and you can do it quickly - I suppose Mr Stanjura is in negotiations, I heard, pretty aggressive, so if he calls Šnobr and Co., he'll be able to negotiate a good price that the company will actually decide to pay the shares, she'll buy them out of their money - so no state budget has to contribute to that. The moment you do this, inflation will drop. I have even read here - here it is, here Mr Frait from the CNB speaks: "We can also look forward to deflation with greater energy reductions. You hear well, deflation. We had a fall in inflation in November, December 2021, so it's all about electricity, the current, yes. We produce minimum gas, but we have electricity cheaply, we export, ČEZ is drowning in profit and the state is watching it. So it would be good - I know everything Babiš's suggesting is wrong, I've got a whole list of things here that you've just muddleed up because it was our government - but after all, try to think about it. Then you're going to bring down inflation. I mean, all Rusnok's predictions were about nothing. Nothing worked out for him, nothing. What does it mean that some other experts - what kind of experts say we should raise interest? That's what you want to do with these people so they don't have any more mortgages so they lose everything so they can't buy anything so those firms can't... Who understands that, knows that a company isn't like a state. The state is abnormal, because actually the budget is expenditure. No, it doesn't calculate revenue. You look at your income at home first, and that's what you're doing. The state has it on the contrary, completely mental - it doesn't have the discretion, it doesn't have an auditor, it would never get a stamp. When I saw this as the finance minister, I thought it was incredible, incredible! So basically, every company makes their sales first, income. Then, of course, people come first, then they have to invest so that it doesn't fall apart, so if it's some kind of industrial company, then it has a recovery investment so it doesn't fall apart, then development to expand, and when it has loans in the crowns, of course, it's at the expense of someone. I do not understand what this talk is when we are export-dependent to the euro area, why eurozone companies have 2,5 percent and our Czech companies that do not have the possibility of the euro, 7 percent. The Czech National Bank is driving itself into the euro area. I went to Eurosummits and there it was a classic, North versus South. The sun shines in the south, they have high debts, they're fine, and the north is financially responsible, and they've always pushed them to behave responsibly. But Greece - 208 percent debt to GDP. Do you know when he retires? At 62 years of age, such an example by the way. So that's what this is about. Here's another proof that it's about energy, it's about electricity, it's about ČEZ. Well, let's hope the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance will think about it, but it's clear that what we come up with, unfortunately, is always a problem. I'm begging you for the receipts. It's still haunted here that there's no money. Money is, of course. The money is in hundreds of billions, and it's from inflation. Only EET, yes, you gave up 14 billion a year, 14 billion. That's documented, sir, documented, we can supply you with the materials. If you don't know how it works today, even the managers let EET run the restaurants, you know? For example, Marina Grosseto, when there was a CEO at lunch, I wouldn't say what banks, and he wanted to pay with a card, so they said to him, "There's an ATM downstairs." I've said that in public twice, and they're already taking cards. It's clear where they don't take cards, that's a clear message. We have promoted the EET, 17 countries in the European Union have it. It was clear and honest entrepreneurs simply accepted it. Thanks to this, we reduced taxes from 21 percent to 10 percent - food, soft drink, draft beer and more. So the money is. Mrs. Schillerová has already mentioned that you have too many ministers. We had under us the three agendas - the Minister of Justice, the Legislative Council of the Government, science and research - I had - and so on. That's for sure, that's for sure. Well, the number of advisors. Well, that's rare how many counselors there are. I don't know where the savings are. I remember when we did the first government - and we didn't know where we were when we finished second in 2013 - so our colleagues Sobotka and Bělobrádek explained to us that there must be a coalition deputy in each ministry to keep an eye on each other. Well, of course we didn't have anyone. Then all those fellow partyers found it. It was interesting to see at KDU-ČSL resorts how many KDU-ČSL members are there. I, when I was Minister of Finance or Prime Minister, someone who was from the movement was banned, was nowhere. I have never had an ANO adviser and how many of our Members wanted to be ministers. But we chose it differently, so it's a different system. I understand. When I look at the counselors there, they have them - the MPs who failed, here for Fanda Bartoš. Now there was an article. There are counselors everywhere. Well, then, of course, it costs money. I'm sure it's not billions, but it's a principle that if you want to take money from seniors, then you should set an example. Or the Minister for European Affairs and its Office - I don't know what for, then. The whole Bureau did Zajíček and Pojar. I think he's very good at doing it, and he's doing it. I understand he's a coalition partner, but there are ways to save money everywhere. Freezing salaries, that's what I'm talking about - 12.7 percent. Well, people call us names. I suggested that it be frozen until 2026, but Mr Skopeček said that it is necessary for us to have high-quality Members, and I think we have them, that they are experts. But I guess it's hard to explain when we take CZK 1,000 a month from seniors. That's really unbelievable. Of course, all the things we've designed here. For example, I proposed the abolition of television and radio charges, which I put in the House in September 2022. Yes, for those pensioners it would be - it is about 900,000 people, it is elderly and disabled and disabled people and children, students, it is CZK 2,000 a year. I know it may seem meaningless, but even the discounts you took away from them - and it was really embarrassing - that's important to them, too, when foods are expensive. Then I'm back on the power. Some wonder that - I don't know who wonders that foodmakers use electricity, that bakers or meat producers need electricity - perhaps that electricity has an impact on everything. If anyone doesn't understand, I'm really sorry. [[20.40 hours]] So one more time. The budget in 2023 is 2 223 billion, and Prime Minister, 19 billion is 0.85%. Unbelievable. It really is... and plus, Mr. Stanjura has the money, right? He said it was easy. Now the increase in public budget revenue in billions. Listen carefully. In 2023 it is 534 billion, an increase compared to 2021, in 2024 it is a 627 billion increase compared to 2021, in 2025 it is an increase of 716 billion, esteemed pensioners. So don't trust this government that there's no money. Of course there's money, there's money, you're making the most of it because you have to buy expensive food, that's why. And yet, we've been reducing the VAT on drugs to 10 percent, and now the coalition is saying that it might even increase taxes. Of course, it all came about after the President's election. That's what we expected, we all said. Yes, it is true that the budgetary impact is 34 billion, and the government only wants to give 15.4. But comparing wages to retirement won't hold up! It won't, because, of course, we can see how it was in 2006, when the government, I think, was also ODS, or 2009 definitely, what was the ratio? Yes, and then we started raising pensions, I repeat, the ODS gave the elderly zero in 2010. Zero! So the argument that the wage/retirement ratio is different than it was is odd. In short, try to increase wages for the employees we need. Someone here boasts that so many civil servants have left, but who are these civil servants? Cops and firemen. When the firefighters - I've never seen our foundation in my life, there's now, like, 50 firefighters on different... They're not huge sums, but it's obvious that firefighters and these files don't give a damn about our government. So let us go back to the Czech National Bank's policy, which, of course, increases the profits of commercial banks, but of course logically increases debt. There were various prognosis. When I was Minister of Finance, I borrowed at negative interest that we borrowed, and we still paid and we made huge money on it, but that was still the time when the Czech National Bank behaved normally. Who benefits from this? It destroys everyone, but of course - the banks stick it there, it lies there, because of course we don't have a capital market like in America, that 90 percent of companies are funded on the stock market. We have it all through the banks. Minister Stanjura has a view of the crazy - I don't know - up to 100 billion. It would be interesting to see the absolute debt and actually the percentage. Why are you borrowing so expensively? You have a worse rating or you don't believe the markets, or I don't know, because of course there's a topic to debate when you look at it. I think there must be reserves in my opinion, but I'm sure the Treasury employees, at least in our time, worked very well. But of course, if the markets don't trust the government and like... I don't understand. How could you even afford to change things? You didn't just keep your election vows, but normally in 430 days, you didn't evaluate the government's programming statement that we evaluated every six months, every minister had a job to do. And by the way, I've got it evaluated here, the government's programming statement. I've got about two hours, but we'll see what happens with time. There was a government today, and today you're... You first joined office 27. 12, 12.30, 2021, and you've never evaluated it, ever. Now I'm looking for the preamble to your government's programming statement. [[He's looking in the papers in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] I'll find it and start with what happened today. You guys cut off the little you had on the government today for the people and businesses that your voters voted for, and what you promised them is no longer valid. It doesn't work, it's incredible, and normally, it's easy, no one cares. Of course, the media are with you, they've won your election repeatedly, nobody's talking about it. So you're today, there's a change. The official communiqué is that "our goals and priorities, which we have set ourselves in the preamble to this statement, do not change." Yeah, and the Prime Minister says it's... Oh, here it is, the government's programming statement. Well, that's amazing, that's normal... I'll read you the second sentence, that's exactly how this government keeps making excuses for us - 430 days are there. So the preamble, the government's programming statement: "The new government" - that is January 2022 - "is coming to ask for confidence in the Chamber of Deputies at a time that is without exaggeration among the most complex and demanding periods of our modern history." Yes, it's true, there's a war, but there's no war here. You didn't have a GDP drop like we did in 2020 or 2021? [[She's turning to Mrs Schiller, she says.]] 2020. How many did we have? We had 5.5. You've never had a fall in GDP, you've always had growth, so the most demanding period was covid, which... We fought him here for two years, and where you trained us here, why we gave so little money to entrepreneurs and businessmen, and you kept throwing sticks at us, more and more. And when we gave it to them, 370 billion, now something: you dare criticize it. And now comes the sentence: "The government will have to deal very quickly with a whole series of negative phenomena coming from outside, but they are also an unfortunate consequence of a number of previous decisions. " And what is it, please? Tell me the decision of the last government. Is that the lie about giving people money and inflation? It's a dirty lie, everybody just repeats it, nobody understands it. Just like everyone talks about a populist. A populist is a good word, isn't he? A populist is for people, what's wrong with that? I'm a proud populist. I repeat, you can write whatever you want, media. And now it comes - the decision of the previous government, I don't know what it is. I've written everything down since entering politics as Secretary of Finance, as a fired finance minister, as Prime Minister, it's all on paper. And the decision of the last government - it's high inflation. Excellent, isn't it? He says it's high inflation, Babišův's precious. 5.3 %. Minister of Culture, give you the whole list, here, look. Minister, this is a national investment plan, where you have 50 billion investment in culture, and then I'll read it to you when you have time. [[20.50 hours]] So what are you gonna do about it? I gave you the instructions, so please do it. The covid epidemic, they're kidding. On December 17th, 2021 at 8:00 a.m., the Health Risk Board was still there, we were still discussing covid, lost omicron, had absolutely no burden. We left you 160 million medical supplies from state material reserves, we started out when it was 10,000, everything was sold out. The labs, they had all those friends of the main party, the coalition, the ODS, and we didn't have anything, so we left everything for you. Yes, you can say we bought vaccines. Who knew what was going to happen? So covid didn't do anything either. And the consequences of the energy crisis, says the government in January 2022. And basically today, for the first time, but the government didn't evaluate the performance. I don't know why the Prime Minister didn't call and do it. Like this, we did it for you. Green is met, green is not seen, orange is filling and red - so you do nothing. [[He's showing the materials.]] You're making excuses for war, covid was worse. Yes, people are dying there, that's wrong, and I'm sorry, of course, but the impact on the economy was considerably higher for the covid. Despite this, we ended up with less debt in 2021 to GDP - and health for the ODS, they are discussing it there and they do not understand it in the podcasts - yes, it counts against GDP. And your GDP 2022 is still below it, I mean, as we started 2014, since the one who pretended to be a great finance minister was giving advice, and yet had a much better period. So about the government's programming statement. So you resigned on the tax brake. You canceled your promise to motivate me to set the terms of tax discounts. Are you gonna take those, or are you gonna do it? That's a classic-- ODS in government, raising taxes. Pensioners are unlucky, you threw sick, socially disadvantaged, and retired people overboard. Socially sensitive measures are planned only in education. Even in education, you cheated them, because you promised 130 percent for everyone, even for the helpers, I don't know, assistants, and now you're showing it 40,000 less, this is what I'm talking about. And now the most important thing that all employers and employees have been looking forward to is canceling the only sensible thing for employers, the promised 2 percentage points of social security downstairs that they won't be. I knew it wouldn't be. But why did you promise? I mean, you guys lied, you lied brutally. [[With laughter.]] Even before the election, even then in the government's programming statement, and now you've taken it completely. Too smůla. On the contrary, if businessmen are supposedly your constituents, I don't know why, we did x different discounts for them, so there you want to increase their contributions to social services and health. So 2 percentage points, that was the most - it's gone, it's not, it's not money. It's interesting that there's no money, but with inflation, you're leaking hundreds of billions. You've resigned to a revision of price regulation, so important these days. All experts recommend it, but nothing will happen again. You had a promise to include a study into a supplementary retirement period, but that doesn't apply again, so your voters, they hoped, they're unlucky and they'll have lower pensions. I don't know what you're doing with the government's programming statement, cancel it. [[With laughter.]] In six months, you'll come back and say there's something, there's a change, something's happened again. We had covid, we didn't question the government's programming statement once, we didn't change it and we fulfilled it at 80 percent, and we explained why we didn't meet the 20 percent. And that's one of the projects that, of course, you killed, which the pirát didn't want mostly at the Magistrate. So counting the study to a supplementary retirement period doesn't apply either. Laughing at all those who work in education in non-teaching professions. All non-teaching workers, please note that the promise to keep your salaries at 130 percent is no longer valid, and now it only applies to teachers, so 40,000 people, the promise you made is no longer, so maybe in a year you'll change it to teachers. Support for beginners by 2022 is also gone, nothing has been done. A year later, you moved specific plans to reduce the number of administrative posts. Of course, the clerk's jobs - we have to tell ourselves who the clerk is, who the clerk isn't. You guys changed the Civil Service Act to get your buddies there. I don't know why you didn't change the state's ability to call off the Secretary of State, but maybe you're talking to them in a different way than we were able to talk, when the ministers were often desperate that the Secretary of State did what he wanted. You resigned to prepare a law on housing support for young people under two years of age. Everything that was, Mrs. Dostálová, I've got this place, you've walled up, so no living. More advantageous mortgages have disappeared, tax cuts on construction have disappeared, and you have cut that in 2023 to cut and write down rates, so you're going to make your construction more expensive again. It's really not going in the right direction. In this situation, you can afford to talk about some damage, you really can't be serious. [[With laughter.]] I really don't understand who's telling you this, who's telling you this? Damage? I can read here, 24 pages. Light fuel oils 100 billion, failed banks 300 billion, the Czech Consolidation Agency - after you destroyed banks, all those debts ended up in a consolidation company, manko 232 billion: Komerční banka 8 billion, privatization of Telecom 300 billion and so on, Harvard funds 11 billion, so talk about the damage that you give money to pensioners and those journalists still copy it, they normally instead of thinking about it basically calling it scandalous. [[With laughter.]] What a shame it is that an old man gets money, that's a shame? We're sorry to hear that the pensioner gets CZK 1,000 a month? IZIP famous - 2 billion, ROP Southwest, ROP Northwest, there you are together - acquitted, 14 billion Promopro. Now a lady texted me that her husband ended up in prison, the owner of Promopra, and she wanted to go there - that was a political decision, but I don't want to judge. Bonds, H-System, IPB, Czech beer, Union Bank, that was damage, wasn't it? Funds, that's forgotten, because the Tuscan affair, that was a great, solar baron of $1 trillion. But that's not what the media that cheers you about when the Czech Republic was 30 years old didn't report on it. The young generation doesn't even know what happened here since the revolution. [[With laughter.]] [[21.00 hours]] Now I wanted the Presidency to do it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why he did not fight a billion euros for the Czech Republic in the Presidency, when he was to manage Europe? Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Germany we have accepted millions of refugees, millions. You yourself in the media announced that it cost $28.5 billion plus, of course, weapons, but that's not what I'm counting on. But if the Prime Minister was the head of Europe, why didn't he force the European Commission to help Ukraine with 20 billion euros, why didn't he arrange the money for these countries when Italy and Spain and Greece received it for illegal migration? They received hundreds of millions of euros. And instead of putting it through, and I think we could get through it, we got nothing, and I think it's a big mistake. There was a historic chance in the Presidency to push through, and I know that when it is the Presidency, it is not that whoever has the Presidency will push something for their country, but of course it is done and, of course, it also works, even if it is not officially mentioned. So the result is actually zero. The result is even worse than zero. The result for us, for our citizens, is a complete disaster. The Czech Presidency, which we have once every 13 years and within which the Prime Minister has not called one special council, which he would - of course I know that Charles Michel is calling it, and he would certainly have called it if he had said it, so since Macron had seven summits, we had one informal one here, which was also Macronův's, because there was a European Community project, 44 countries here - so why didn't the Prime Minister call it or ask for a summons? I understand he's avoiding it. It's not easy behind that door, because there's a struggle for interests, and there's a place where it's most important to our country. By the way, when we were fighting for European money and we got the second largest money - EUR 1.6 billion extra - we blocked it four nights, five days. 42 billion extra, 42 billion extra! 980 billion here we negotiated! 50 billion of these for Czech health care, 15 billion for national fight against cancer. Hello, my sisters in Brno. I wanted to build the most modern cancer hospital in Europe, maybe in the world, so do you know, Pražák, when is the term now in Yellow? By the end of November! And build a billion-billion-dollar prevention pavilion we've pushed through. That's just by the way, but I'll get to that. So that's the Presidency. The greenest Presidency in history. Well, if that Timmerman fanatic Timmermans you, that's hell. It's over! This is unbelievable! Green ideology! Europe has failed to learn, and you can lie a hundred times about us signing something. We didn't sign anything. Morawiecký and I negotiated the framework that we had no commitments and that we had the second largest money from the Modernization Fund, that's all. Although, of course, some still talk about what we... We didn't negotiate anything. Fit for 55 is already realization and there you screwed up as much as you could! Hell of a place! And you approved a specific form of Green Deal, the Czech Presidency and the Czech Government in Brussels, you! That's it! And we negotiated at the 2019 summit a condition that, if we are to have higher climate targets, these objectives should be for Europe as a whole, not for specific states. Yes, that was a huge victory. We blocked that, because, of course, Denmark, which is at sea, and it shoots those propellers, has 70 percent of renewable resources, and we don't have them. If you want to build some propellers here, there are some, but no one will allow it - logically. So this meant that some countries have to reduce emissions faster because they have better starting conditions, for example, there is no heavy industry, but other countries, including the Czech Republic, are to be exempted from this radical green transition. And that's where the barkworm played the part when he let our woods eat Mr. Jurečka. He promised to give money in September 2017, giving nothing. We gave 16 billion by the way. So why didn't we want it? Because we would sacrifice our industry and jobs on the altar of a rash green policy, and in short, we will not be able to get rid of the power plants. So that was the general principle that I agreed with the other leaders. Moreover, I have come to the conclusion that states, including the Czech Republic, can continue to use nuclear energy. We spent all night, there was still the Prime Minister of Austria, fighting for the word core. She didn't want it there and she blocked it because, yes, Austria, which doesn't want a core and built a nuclear power plant, then shut it down, still takes 15 percent of the electricity from our core. Also head-to-head! During the Czech Presidency, however, there was a solution to how to achieve these objectives in particular, namely how to reduce emissions, in which areas and who would have the most. And here the government has completely slept - worse, instead of negotiating good conditions for our country and citizens and using the Presidency to have the greatest influence in Brussels and adapting Green Deal to today's energy crisis - everything has changed! After all, until Putin attacked Ukraine - terrible - all fought for Russian gas. Nord stream 1, Nord stream 2, Eurostream, South stream, all of them. And it's all changed, so, of course, Green Deal should be reviewed. During the Czech Presidency, it has been addressed how to achieve these objectives in particular, namely how to reduce emissions, in which areas and who would have the most, and here the government has slept - worse, instead of negotiating good conditions for our country and citizens and using the Presidency when we have the greatest influence in Brussels and adapting Green Deal to today's energy crisis, the government has adopted it without change, as it was proposed before the war in Ukraine by the European Commission. Yes, when the European elections are next year, it will again be sushi deal and again negotiate and lobby who will be the President of the European Commission and who will be the President of the European Council. Yes, and the President only happened on the basis that she promised the European Parliament that it would be totally green. Hell of a place! And the government boasts. So what does that mean? The ODS promised, the Prime Minister promised on 17 December 2021 that they would never allow the combustion engines to end. And reality? Yes, it's over. They've agreed to that since 2035 and the associated emission restrictions. And the Prime Minister promised he wouldn't let that happen. I don't know, why didn't Hubáčková have a mandate, or that she didn't speak English? We know that, but perhaps the whole Presidency did Zajíček. Without the Zajíček, you would do nothing, and the President did well to marry him, because he is the best official who understands the European Union most, and of course it was his work, the full implementation. We have been preparing this Presidency for three years, but implementation has been done on officials, and I must say that our officials are very good. But you didn't negotiate anything here, and even the Czech Republic didn't belong in negotiations with those countries that wanted to postpone this date. You guys aren't normally... [[He's laughing.]] I don't get it. The Prime Minister promised he wouldn't let that happen, and they normally voted in favour. French Commissioner Thierry Breton, one of the reasonable ones in Europe, says, unlike the Timmermans fanatic, that we have been hasty as Europe and that our companies will have a competitive disadvantage compared to car manufacturers in the world that do not have similar restrictions, not to mention prices for citizens, because carmakers will either cancel the production of new smaller cars completely or cost them so much that people will not even be able to afford it. [[21.10 hours]] And I'm so curious about the gigafactors we've been dealing with, but Volkswagen's still hesitating. No? I don't know. If everyone's crazy, the internal combustion engines will end, they'll just be electric cars, and China will make it for half, and it still has lithium, so how does it end? Probably like with the masks and the vaccines. I mean, not vaccines, luckily, but with masks. Mr Breton said that if that happens, there is a risk that 600,000 people in the European car industry will lose their jobs, and the car will probably be a luxury for people. Increase emissions targets for our country by almost 100 percent, for areas such as agriculture, but also industry or construction. So this government negotiated it perfectly in quotation marks and this is not a dictation from Brussels, it is a negotiation by the Czech Presidency. I don't know why we were so obsessive, or how is that even possible? The MEPs for the ODS never supported this. And of course, higher emission targets for farmers mean higher costs to them. This is logically reflected in consumer prices. At the end of the food crisis, when prices of agricultural products have risen by 3% in the last month alone, this is indeed an excellent report for people. Three dots. Emission allowances. The Czech Republic has agreed the worst conditions in Brussels, and people will become poor within the Czech Presidency due to Czech actions in Brussels. Most of the heat plants in the Czech Republic are planning to increase costs from next year's price increase, often by double. The suspension of emission allowance trading could reduce domestic heating prices from 6 to 15 percent. But the Czech Presidency under Petr Fiala agreed the opposite. The system not only didn't stop, but it was extended to other areas including heating buildings. Yeah, so we'll also pay for the building emissions. That means it's a certain environmental tax. This is now true of industry and all those who have emissions, and now citizens or those who have buildings, houses will pay for it. In practice, energy distributors, gas and other fossil fuels will have to buy emission allowances and this will, of course, be reflected in their electricity invoices. It is too much for the Green European Parliament, which, after the Czech Presidency, wanted it to make an exception for households, because it too is afraid of the unseen social consequences, but that is not what our government is afraid of. Not to mention the fact that the Czech Presidency imposed the emission allowances system on fuel distributors in transport. Some countries wanted to remove at least personal transport from the system, but they came across the Czech Green Presidency. That's really unbelievable. So there's another price for people who are gonna drive regular gas and diesel cars. Plus, it's just the tip of the iceberg. In addition, the Czech Republic decided in Brussels to cancel free allowances for our industry and replace it with a carbon tax at the border. Well, I wonder how this can work. This carbon tax is intended to work by increasing, according to officials, the products of companies from third countries that did not produce it ecologically enough. And who's going to judge that? I've seen the debates, all the more so that if we take China like this, the trade balance between the Czech Republic and China is that we export 10 and import 100, 1: 10. Only Germany had a positive trade balance across Europe - also against the United States and China, so fantasy. And I'm asking, how are we going to control it? Yes, it says here how much, for example, a Chinese company created in the production of emissions. I'm sure she'll give us the right numbers, I've got good experience with that, and she won't be embellishing anything. Moreover, who will prevent the Chinese government from imposing similar duties on us in response? Totally fucked up. So 8 percent of Europe's emissions - are we going to save the planet? We destroy the industry, and in 300 years, the Číňan will be thinking, "Where are you going on vacation? Well, I'm going, there's this peninsula of Asia called Europe, there's no industry anymore, there's just tourist centers, some monuments, and I'm going there. In 300 million years. And there won't be a panda in Prague like we asked. The last Czech pig may be there, because it also looks like we're not going to eat pork anymore, we're going to eat larvae - chicken or beef, cows have emissions, too, according to the new generation of Brussels. Hell! So this is the future of Europe. Crazy. It's not just our opinion, the YES movement. You can read how the Czech Senate voted on Green Deal a year ago, in which most of the government coalition sits. That's exactly the same criticism. The Czech Senate criticized as much as we did. But I do not understand why they do not mind that these proposals, when they were opposed and we too, that the Czech government negotiated at EU level - I do not know whether they went there or what they were doing there. So the Czech Presidency did not resolve the energy crisis. Those ideas, I beg of you, how we're gonna buy something together - I'd like to see it. I've seen the vaccine fight that Angela and Kurz cut us up when we wanted to distribute vaccines when they weren't, but we needed them as we wanted to divide them by population, I remember. So solidarity is - yes - often in press conferences, but in reality? The Prime Minister promised us a European decision to stop prices, especially gas. We saw Mr Síkela driving back and forth to Brussels with the words: The next time we will definitely come to an agreement. They just didn't agree, but good. So I say this government is incredibly lucky. And okay, I'm sure the LNG rent that CEZ did is good. And, as I said, it is necessary to build CEZ, redeem it and build overall state strategy in the energy sector. Then it came to the Czech Presidency that it would stop the gas. Yeah, 180 euros per megawatt hour, but it was 100 percent higher than average prices years ago, so nothing much in the finals. Is it a success? We don't think it is. The functioning of the energy market - I'm always fascinated by the way somebody says how we determine what kind of gas flows in here. We're not denouncing anything, please. The gas flowing in here is decided by the Němec, and, of course, by the distributors. Innogy, by the way, do you know what Innogy is, dear citizens? This is the former part of Transgas State. At that time belongs to the Hungarian state, has 40 percent distribution of gas in the Czech Republic, does not belong to us, unfortunately. So they decide how they buy, what they buy, and yet it's with the refineries. Now I've read that Poland doesn't take Russian oil anymore, but all we can do to our refineries is recommend something on the wall, they'll still do what they want. And, of course, what we don't talk about is business in Ukraine. That's business - guns, fuel... That's not what they say, that's not what they say, but it's cool. The Prime Minister left it all to his minister. The Germans have prepared a plan to support people and companies worth 200 billion euros, so, of course, our companies will have a competitive disadvantage. Unfortunately, the Presidency didn't come up with any Czech initiative and we didn't sign up for history, and we could, because, of course, even in the context that the Czech Republic was actually the first to help Ukraine, so it could take advantage of this position, within the Presidency and on some major initiative, and also to make something out of it for us, at least the billion euro or at least what we paid. It's normal, that's how it works. [[21.20 hours]] At the Presidency, the Francouz had a summit to strengthen defence in the EU, the Portugalec on social Europe, the Slovák in their time invented flexible solidarity to migration, in other words, that not all countries must accept migrants but can, for example, contribute financially and materially to strengthening external borders. Topolánek, too, had the Eastern Partnership as a strong topic in his day, so each Presidency had a subject. And our government now? There was no theme. The informal summit in Prague, which I was talking about, was perceived as the Emmanuel Macron summit. Everyone knows that he initiated the whole summit from the start, and it was his summit. We still chose Castle, the officials wanted Congress Center, I wanted Moser, they didn't want it, so they competed something, but it was pretty cool. So... so nothing. But it's okay. The media, of course, was celebrating. I can't believe you're wondering how they could even write that. So the Prime Minister does not fight hard for Czech interests. It's not easy to block at night, and everyone's pissed. Yeah, that's why. When the former government negotiated a program for 2014 to 2020, the unnamed prime minister slept at the hotel, the unnamed ambassador went to wake him up to act. So we didn't sleep for four nights and five days, and we brought 42 billion. And now this government... I'm so curious, where's the money? Remember the React-EU when Klára Dostálová and I tried to accommodate all the hospitals, 21 billion? And I wonder if the Minister of Health cares. We brought 50 billion to Czech health care from European funds to the programme 2021 to 2027. Do you know how many they had before? 2014 to 2020? 8 billion, 8 disgraceful. The MPSV had 80 to requalify and shit like that. I mean, requalifying isn't stupid, but we're supposed to give money to companies, and they're supposed to guarantee that someone who wants to change qualifications and jobs, that the firm is responsible, not that we gave it to nonprofits, and then God knows where it ended, for example. So that's the way it is with the Presidency, it's a shame. Plus the green crazies. That first shot, that's what I was talking about, that's a ban on internal combustion engines. It's too bad the car's gonna be... So we're waiting for the gigafactors, if the Volkswagen decides, we'll see, I'm more of a pessimist. But next year there are European elections, and perhaps it would be a good idea for the first time - and I do not know, of course, the five-wheelers are talking to us about nothing - but for the end of the abuse of the Euro-Deputy mandate on Czech policy to fight together - and that is 21 Members - for Czech interests. And I think it might quite happen, and now it looks like if we end up with coal - and today it's in the media - 2033, Dukovany isn't going to be. Today it is an article - Kubátová - that threatens here and ČEPS solves it. Maybe we'll all compete to have the most Members, but maybe we could try - but maybe I'm naive - to fight sometimes and together, not only in fact, because of course there are Members who are there mainly to be there, such Mr Weber... I dealt with him here at the German Embassy when he convinced the V and our allies that he wanted to be President of the European Commission. That didn't work out, well, he doesn't like me, but whatever. So it's the European elections. The combustion engines - I hope it ever changes, it's completely insane. So many billions were invested in combustion, in reducing consumption and emissions, and now it's all gonna wall up. And the second blow is the Euro 7 standard, which means the price of small cars. And I do not know why our government did nothing when it chaired the European Union, why did it not affect the European Commission and do so? These are the years 2025 to 2035 when the price of small vehicles will substantially increase as their production will require major technical adjustments to meet the requirements. For example, smaller models of Škoda Auto such as Scala, Kamiq or Fabie, according to the director of external relations, Škoda Michal Kadera will reach a price level that will not be sold to customers. Unsellable! While the Škoda model series now begins at the level of 300,000 crowns to be manufactured under new conditions, it would cost between 450 and 500,000 crowns. Then who can buy the car? They've gone crazy, Europe. The third blow is - and I have already talked about it - what has pushed through our Presidency: the actual extension of emission allowances to families who own cars for internal combustion engines. Allowances will be paid by fuel suppliers at the beginning of the supply chain, not by households and end customers. These paid allowances will be displayed in the form of an increase in fuel and heat prices, estimated from CZK 10,000 per year per household. Each owner of such a car will pay according to our estimate between 3 and 6 crowns, well heard, fellow citizens, between 3 and 6 crowns per litre of fuel extra just because it runs on diesel or petrol, and this will come in 2027. Just do the math. Socially weaker people just won't have anything to pay for and they won't ride. Moreover, this government takes change for our pensioners, and it is important for them. The EU ETS2, from 2027 onwards, will include all fossil fuels, i.e. emissions from road transport, heating of buildings and other industries not covered by the EU ETS1. The aim is to reduce emissions in these sectors by 43 % by 2030 compared to 2025. Out of the total number of Social Climate Fund, more than 50 billion will go to low-income households, and another 50 billion from ETS2 will receive a state budget for climate measures. Draining from the Social Climate Fund will be possible from 2026. The Czech Government claims that the aim is to implement the so-called green modernisation in advance so that EU ETS2 allowances do not fall on households at all, but as it does, I do not know. Do the government really think grant programs, New Green Savings, NZÚ and NZÚ Light, or other programs will be enough? I don't know. I'm not sure. This government has begun and continues and is obsessed with the fact that everything we had as projects simply says it's all wrong. According to the media, the Minister of Finance has now stopped the land exchange between the City Council and the Hospital in Bulovka and the Royal Vinohrady. I don't know if it's true or not. It's because it's supposed to be invested there. It was mainly planned in the Royal Vinohrady burnt pavilion. That's where the helicopter lands, the doctors have a burnt baby on their hands, and now they're carrying it around, the wheel, 12 places, well, totally awful. And I don't know if that's true or not, but the investments, the health services, I can still get to. [[21.30 hours]] Letňany administrative center, yeah. Babišův's project, let's cut it. As long as we have a subway that ends up in the field. There was supposed to be an Olympic stadium, there's nothing there, but Babiš didn't make it up. Babiš was at Macron 2015, and when I ended up with him as Minister of the Economy, I asked, "Where is Minister of Finance Michel Sapin sitting? He says, here, everyone's sitting there. And it was a great project, great. I understand that the Minister of Culture has already left - who sits in the bedroom of the noble in Nostice Palace, that he would not want to move to the administrative district of Letňany, which would be on the edge of Prague, where people would not have to park there. Or Mr. Bartoš as Minister of MMR at Old Man, no... Klára Dostálová always told me that when she had a meeting and someone was playing guitar or drumming, she gave him a hundred to keep quiet for a while. And why is he sitting on Staromák Man? It's also a historic building. We had a great project, hundreds of apartments would be released, museums would be created, and it's normal. They've got it in Berlin, they've got it everywhere, but by wanting it, they cut it. Oncological Hospital in Prague - this is the national fight against cancer. Yeah, well, 75 people are gonna die of cancer again today, and 200 people are gonna get sick. We were talking about prevention... I am glad that Minister Válek has finally discovered prevention and I hope that the project on Yellow for a billion... and that is a real, fantastic prevention center for it to end. And other investment projects - New scene for example, but I've got plenty of cultural ones here. We renovated the National Museum, the State Opera, there was an Invalidovna project, a new scene - I don't know why it's stopped, the National Gallery, okay? Another project - the headquarters of the Road and Motorway Directorate and Railway Administration at Smíchov railway station, a huge synergy, yes, that they would all be in one place. I am glad, and so today the government is continuing our prison project in Hradiště as part of the government's programme statement - and so was the Prime Minister. Invalidation's out. We also discovered the Imperial Spa by accident and hopefully it will be finished. And also, when the highway to Karlovy Vary finally gets here - I don't understand why someone didn't deal with it right after the revolution when... Karel IV. He was, of course, a genius and we didn't have to drive for two hours, but when it's finished, the Pražan can go to the Imperial Spa concert for 50 minutes, and hopefully it'll all work out. The lithium tinovec project - there's nothing going on. And then we had a lot of water dam projects, and I don't know why... During our reign we prepared the construction of dams and of course it is about water, climate change is water, and there we helped - Vlachovice, Senomaty, Šanov, Kryry or Nové Heřminů and Skalička. According to the decision of the new government, there will be some dry cop, not a dam, and the new government has decided not to prepare any more dams. But I don't understand why. The ones that are approved, 15 billion, and of course it's about water, the dams are important. [[Will they get it?]] At the moment we have more than 80 locations in the Czech Republic, which are protected in the territorial plan as places for a possible exhibition of dams. And, of course, the dam, not only is it a reservoir of water, but of course it's for people, it's recreation, it's tourism, it's everything -- and especially in the dry season, it's supposed to be those locations, and it's going to take years to get ready to build a dam. So it's a shame. The project of investment in the Labyrinth slowed down, there is no consensus in the coalition. Then we finally started the connection, railway line Prague - Kladno airport, there is an annual delay due to finances, starting this year. And of course, what you stopped as a government, a key strategy, a plan, is a construction law - that's the law that Klára Dostálová won, she spent so much energy on it. And then, as I showed the Minister of Culture that this is our National Investment Plan, it's kind of an inventory of all investments until 2050, and I think it's a good thing for individual ministers to look into it and choose from priorities and fight for those investment projects. EET, of course, you've walled it up, it's normally ideology, a normal person doesn't understand. Innovation strategy, yes, you also stopped, what Karel Havlíček prepared, here it is: Innovation strategy of the Czech Republic by 2030, Earth for the Future, sophisticated system of science finance, artificial intelligence strategy, hydrogen strategy - all stopped, coal commission, end of activities and new coal decline plan 2033 despite expert opinions. Added value investment support has stopped. Minimum activity of the Triple Sea project. There is no continuation of the project of the merger of CzechTrade, CzechInvest, CzechTourism. When we visited, we were in Singapore, Thailand and so on, so we experienced, even that the representative of Czechtrad did not talk to the business council at all and so on. There were great synergies, but the resortism, of course, was counterproductive. There is no continuation of the Czech Export Bank, EGAP and NRB merger project, no continuation of the National Development Fund project for infrastructure financing. That's where the banks promised money, so I don't know if it touched or touched it, why it didn't make it. Programme Construction for municipalities, low-income groups, subsidies and credit, youth housing program, construction of family houses in the countryside, purchase and advantageous loans, all of which Klára Dostálová had there prepared. I'm glad I just saw that the Plzeň bypass was opened, and that's where the MMR gave 1.5 billion. So I'm not saying that, but that was European money and we somehow supported it. [[unintelligible]] Limiting the quality and availability of health services. Here I have yet - the status of an artist in the field of culture is not addressed, a messed-up - endless story - the transformation of the Czech Post. That's right, I tried to figure it out, but it wasn't the resort of the YES movement, but it's an endless story that I don't understand why it doesn't work. Such an asset, and basically, it just consumes money when it could, in my opinion, make money, and private projects are rolling through the mail, and mail girls are making ridiculous money. Well, that's too bad. So these are the things you just stopped. And then when I return to health care, 50 billion from Europe, 15 billion from the National Cancer Plan. And if it really, the money, instead of that great cancer hospital that could have been in Prague and could have been for everyone - and I repeat again that the Pragueans, prevention in Yellow, the deadline is the end of November, okay? You don't even have to call, and we wanted to do the same here. It's supposed to be invested somewhere, I don't know, in Motola, so I'm curious. Of course, the lobby won. It was for people, not because Babiš pushed it. Babiš really doesn't need this device, it wasn't really about me, and it's a shame. We could have built unique here in Prague - there are only seven in Europe, not many. Yes, there are oncologists fighting everywhere, and here's the brochure that Mr. Jurečka was yelling at me on the mike that it was a campaign - which they then banned from giving it away from the VZP. [[He's pointing.]] And, folks, it's on the web again, and you have to go to prevention, colonoscopy, and these things. So those were our projects. [[21.40 hours]] Then there's my dentist. Endless story, isn't it? We had the Stomatology 2.0 project for a better Czech Republic. We were at the Denstopeks at the dentist, a young boy who ended up at the Medical School in Olomouc in 2020, and there was just a fellow mayor talking to him, leaving him with 1,000 clients. So we asked about the deadline in a year. And what's the situation with us now? Terrible problem, the dentists, especially the Ústí Region, the Karlovy Vary Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, but everywhere. And we had this project - and I don't know and repeat, it's not that I invented it, Mr Mounajjed came up with it, it's a private dentist, we did a vaccination center with him in the O2 Arena, where people were vaccinated in seven minutes - and it's very interesting, because what he's saying is that dentistry is the most progressive medical field in the Czech Republic, a European leader in innovation. The solution to the problem must be targeted according to the needs of the population and their health literacy, okay? We have 60 percent of people who are trying to find their dentist, accept financial participation, and 40 percent of people who will not look for a dentist and come only when something hurts them or do not accept financial participation. And that was the project. There is really a problem with the quality of care provided in our country. I read it a lot, the material. Part of dentists do not emphasize the quality of treatment. Low quality creates a vicious circle where patients visit their dentist over and over and over again and repair something. These patients gradually lose their teeth due to poor quality treatment. This group of dentists then has completely filled capacity with their stem patients and are unable to receive new patients. Second, it is the small purchasing power of the population in the given areas. These are the areas I was talking about, the unwillingness of the people to participate financially in treatment. Part of dentists, especially young, are used to working with modern technologies such as operating microscopes, high-quality X-rays, lasers or scanners. These investments bring a substantial increase in the office's hourly calculations. This increases performance prices, but insurance companies are not able to cover the price intensity of these performances and this creates a need for financial participation of residents in such performances. The willingness of participation is often hand in hand with the purchasing power of the population in the region. The Minister of Finance started right away by taking 14 billion insurance companies. I don't know what their accounts balance is, maybe good, the better. So, of course, maybe this project -- they could think about it. The project targets those who don't go to the dentist, they don't want to pay, and they only go when something hurts them, and that's 40 percent. And if we were to create a state-funded network of offices where only the removal of the acute problem of pain will be solved, not the overall conceptual repair, the state-guaranteed office in selected districts, 45 districts without the need to be registered in the office. So something hurts me, I go, there's someone there, and I pay nothing. Only treatment of acute cases, pain, day-to-day operating time, care covered by public health insurance without financial participation. But by the way, we did the investment program for Adam Vojtěch, and the young dentists could get up to $2.5 million to set up an office. Financial costs and staffing of state guaranteed offices, founder - regions. I just talked to the Governor of the Ústí Region, and he's thinking about it because it's really a problem, dentist. And regions - for financial support of the state, material-technical equipment circus 2.5 million per office, staffing - two doctors, two sisters. Where to get dentists? The use of dentists from countries outside the European Union who apply for aprobation exam for work in the Czech Republic. In order to obtain an aprobation test, it would be necessary to work in these offices for at least two years. Every year, there are dozens of dentists. Financial motivation of graduates, benefit, gaining experience, using students of dentistry from recent years, acquired practice. And then we have a second-- targeting a group of people who are trying to find their dentist and accept some financial involvement, ensuring quality dental care and creating a system of education in the framework of prevention. How to ensure - Stomatologists interest-free or state guaranteed loans for material and technical equipment of the office. Simplifying the system of obtaining contracts with health insurance companies, accelerating the process of obtaining permits for the operation of a non-state medical facility, subsidy for renting premises. Conditions - at least five years in a given place to operate an office, in border areas 80 per cent of Czech insured people, not only foreigners. Nurse, dental instrumental. A large part of dentists struggle with lack of nurses or instrumentals. Financial support to institutions. Which schools, accredited courses, dental instrumentals. A minimum of 200 dental instruments must be accredited each year. This step will partially stop the outpouring of nurses from hospitals to clinics. Dental hygiene - one of the cornerstones of prevention is dental hygiene. Financial support to institutions and faculties accrediting the field of dental hygienist. Increase in the capacity of dental hygiene schools, marketing targeting at secondary schools, presentation of fields and earnings, education of prevention, area contributions of insurance companies to dental hygiene twice a year. Educational programmes for kindergartens and elementary schools on prevention of dental caries - students will provide dentists, dental hygienists or educated teachers. Investing in prevention in the future will save multiples for treatment of neglected problems. Creating a new field of dental preventist. The field should have the same basis as a dental instrumental with an extension of the possibility of interfering with the oral cavity with a preventive objective. X-rays, dental imaging, et cetera. So that's the project, and if--I don't know if the minister would be interested in it, I mean the health service, and that's how much it costs. I think that's a big problem. And of course, we solved the problem in 2018. In September, I learned that every year 2,500 people, 2,500 students, will succeed at medical schools, and they won't make it. And when I asked why, they said they weren't educators. Why aren't they? Well, there's no money. So we did a project, 7 billion for ten years, and it basically increased the percentage - actually accepted to medical schools at a given time, I don't know, in two years up to 30 percent. But of course the problem is that we don't have the professions we need here. And now that I speak for the health department, of course they're psychiatrists. We've done a psychiatric reform. A huge problem for young people. Yes, reform to the English system, not to lock people up in the Bohnice, but these emergency and so on. And I'm afraid that's not what's going on either. And God forbid today, when you have a baby problem and you want an urgent pediatric psychiatrist, the deadline is three months and an adult problem too. So our problem is that universities, when they talk about the budget, they get the money, but the influence of a state that should say, we don't have pediatricians, we don't have dentists, we don't have radiologists, we don't have physiotherapists and so on, that's obviously not the overlap there. Of course, this is not just about health care, but it is about other things. [[21.50 hours]] I'm gonna go back to these investments because we've come to understand what's important here in terms of investment. And this National Investment Plan is just split up, it's by 2050, there's 20,000 projects here, and it's broken down by resorts, health care has 163 billion here. And we had the investments, because I've always wanted specific things to stay behind us, not just some speeches, I'm not much for that. So we had strategic investments, we approved on 7 November 2019. And of course, if you look at the hospitals as they look like - Thomayerka, even if Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk or VFN built it now, it's even older. Of course, not everything looks like IKEM or Pilsen or Motol. So we wanted and approved seven strategic buildings for 11.6 billion, but overall, of course, the need is much larger. I was talking about it at the launch of the Health 2020 conference. But why am I talking about this: when the conference was an Effective Hospital and Minister Válek did not have time to get there, but the Minister of Finance was there, Mr Stanjura, and when they asked him from the diaper if health was a priority for him within the government and those ministries, he said no. It really shocked me that why not health care, when I think it's really the most important thing. We planned seven strategic buildings at the time for 11.6 billion. Hospitals, of course, need to invest. The national investment plan contained 73 billion investments in health care. The seven strategic investments were: building a pavilion of surgical disciplines at the Faculty Hospital Pilsen - and the Pilsen Hospital looks amazing, I think it works there. And here we have the gynecological and obstetric clinic at the Brno Faculty. That's what Mrs. Schillerová and I were trying to convince the officials to finally approve. When the head of gynecology told me there was a promise for 20 years, I really hope that when most of the government is from Moravia, they might have a conflict of interest, and maybe it would be good to know if the hospital in Bohunice is going to be there or what's going to happen, okay? And to make it work, it wouldn't be like svatý Anna's, where someone put about $4 billion in concrete, I don't even want to go back to this tunnel. And, of course, we have an obstetrics at the Apolinář, a great project. How many premieres were born there - their wives or their partners - all went there. I mean, I didn't, my kids were born in Neratovice and my granddaughters were born in Neratovice. So they promised it was a great project, and I hope the Minister could tell us something about whether or not it was going to be. Then here we have: completion, reconstruction of the main building of the Faculty Hospital Olomouc, buildings of surgical disciplines in Hradec. I mean, at least I hope they didn't stop it. These are the projects we've prepared, and now you can do it and cut the tapes, like Mr. Kupka does. He doesn't have to do anything. We've prepared everything for him, and he's got, as far as I know, 300 kilometers of highways ready, so all he has to do is... he doesn't even have to invite us. We invited you, but we understand that we don't belong there anymore, but the point is to keep it going, to invest what was started, and all the stations and all the other things that we started. So let's hope the Minister of Finance can get the money for that. Well, then he was here... there's a new pavilion coming up at IKEM, we were there, it works. New emergency Thomayerka's intake or new pulmonary clinic. We really have some of the best doctors in the world, they need background and, of course, our citizens need to be in a good environment. So this is where it's all at. And I know it's from our workshop, so it's probably toxic to this government, but the Minister of Culture could read it. I'll see how much you guys have here. I don't know what's going on with the New Scene, but maybe we'll find out sometime, I don't want to try you, but culture - 47 billion. No, I was once in the National Gallery with Macron, I showed him the French collection and there was a great project, Invalidovna and so on, New scene, so maybe it would be nice to keep doing this, because we always wanted our sights to be in good shape, so that tourists would come here to visit our people, of course, because we have something to brag about. But according to my information, I don't think there's much of that money. Although the minister is satisfied - I don't know if he has 1% of GDP or how much, but here's the list. Reconstruction of the Trade Fair Palace and the construction of the depositary, it was for 3 billion, construction of a new building of the National Library, museum, rescue - revitalization of the part of the national cultural monument Petrkov. We were there, too. I don't know if it's going on. Terezín, the endless story of Terezín. There we always said that it might be good somewhere in Europe to secure some special funds, because that barracks, it all fell there, and it just can't work without the help of the state. New building of the theatre including concert hall České Budějovice. invalidovna. I don't know how it's going, we started it. Janáček Cultural Center. You've got a lot here, Minister. It's a catalog. These are good things, it would be good to continue because we believe that when there is a crisis, it is necessary to invest from the crisis, especially when the CNB destroyed the mortgages, and it will have an impact on housing construction, so that the construction companies have enough orders. [[2.00 hours]] About education. That's today's article, the government's foul again, canceling a promise to the teachers. I don't understand. Education is so important. You promised the 130 percent diameter. That's today's article where the school unions are upset. You made a promise, so you should keep it. It basically dropped about 40,000. Originally, it was 192,000 teachers, including tutors in cavalry, assistants, masters, coaches, and you normally gave a silent changer to Mr. Výborný, Gazdík, Zajíčková, Klíma and Michálek, all quietly and on Thursday that the opposition didn't even respond. So I don't know, our new shadow prime minister will probably introduce some changes to our shadow government, we'll probably react, but it's actually not fair. It's not fair, and Mr. Dobšík here says you didn't keep your promise. The average salary of the teaching staff, we started with 30 268 and we had the government's programme statement as the only income target and we made it to 44 759, which means almost an increase of 50 percent, yes, for teachers. Well, I think it would be good to keep doing that, because that's important. I don't know how it works in your government, it looks like she's always gonna get all the defense secretary stuff, she's probably yelling at the others to get the money -- yeah, that's good, but the money's needed for the other resorts. After I'm intrigued - and that's an incredible story - it's gambling again. We're home. We're home again. In my country, gambling has the lowest rates, if that's what experts say. I don't know what you're going to change now. I've been there as the finance minister, the lobbying, and your related businessmen, who I don't know if they want lower taxes again... The minister is talking about some units of increase, so we'll follow it. I know how it works. In my ministry, we pushed for the destruction of de facto gambling, the vending machines, that was really, really hell - addiction, 300 suicides a year - here it is on the ground. Of course, most have forgotten that, but we are in the year - and the material - in 2017, where I wrote here, the Czech Republic has been among the countries with the highest number of games and slot machines worldwide in proportion to the population. There are about 100,000 gamblers in the Czech Republic because gambling has been regulated at least, while social costs exceed 15 billion each year. Gambling is also the cause of hundreds of suicides a year. Until 2014 The Ministry of Finance, as a state gambling supervisory authority, largely ignored the decrees of municipalities prohibiting gambling on their territory and allowed automatons in a special operating regime. Since January 2014, we have immediately embarked on the correction of the alarming state. So far, the Ministry has finally cancelled 20,000 machines, while in previous years tens of machines have been cancelled. I remember that well, okay? And on 1 January 2017, the new law - 2017, yes - replaced the 1990 legislation. So it took twenty-seven years for us to push through and reduce the gambling. The market situation at the end of 2016 was: illegal operation - almost most, and by the end of 2017 it was only 5%. So that's what we did, and of course I remember what happened when we wanted to raise gambling taxes. I hope that this government will increase them and that those known, their supporters, who - I hope the government doesn't owe them anything - so it doesn't turn out to be worth it again to our pensioners, as it seems. But I hope it's not like that. I'm not here to deal with Sazka, who should never have been privatized, should have stayed for athletes, and unfortunately it isn't. And the sport, I don't even know who's handling it with you, I had it under me, the athletes always wanted their quasi-ministerhood, so they had the agency. Yeah, we can talk about if it worked, it didn't work. We started with a budget of 3.6 billion in 2014, we ended with 11.5, and most importantly, I hope the sport doesn't split back into a bar in Intercontinental or some apartment, and that you'll raise the money there, but of course the need... No, it wasn't for us. The bar in Intercontinental was for you, and I'm not going to appoint the Deputy Minister. And the apartment was under the CSSD, that's right, we were in the government. But then we did the agency, and I don't know that, at least I hope, I don't have the knowledge that there would be any non-transparable distribution. We mainly wanted to split up small villages, small clubs, which is why there was the program My cabin, My club and others, so about that much. Now, I'd like to talk to you about living, because that's obviously an endless story, but the point is, basically, there's no talking to you, so basically, here I can say that we want to talk to you about it, but you and priori don't want to talk about it. Well, that's too bad. So the housing crisis is still here. I'm not going back to selling 600,000 apartments to different privates after the revolution, that was a mistake, but okay. So housing, its availability and quality are one of the basic indicators we measure not only the quality of life but also the standard of living. Here's what we've been talking about, about young families, about housing availability, and that I need backgrounds. As I was the Minister of Finance, I also introduced a project in June 2014 to build new capacities for kindergartens, schools, gymnasiums and halls - 26 billion we finally put into it over the years and it was obvious, especially in the Central Bohemia Region. No one can question that, and I remember very well - and there is no Mrs Kovářová, who, in November 2013, was still here on the budget committee, came and said that she needed money for kindergarten. We went out and I said, "Why doesn't Kalousek give it to you?" Well, Kalousek won't give it to her. She wanted to move it from one chapter to another, and we started it in June 2014. And no one can question, just for example, the municipality of Chýně, where Mrs Kovářová was mayor, received subsidies for 280 million. There's a new gym with a hall, there's a school, there's a new capacity, and we were happy about it, I'm sure. I don't know, Klára Dostálová isn't here... Mayor Drahelčice wrote to me that she had five children and that she wanted at least one to go to kindergarten. So we went there, and in about six months, if I remember correctly, this kindergarten started to build and eventually stood up. The mayor got pregnant again, so she's got six kids, and she's looking forward to finally getting some of her kids into kindergarten. And now it's 500 million-dollar school. So yes, and why is that? Because from such a Karlovy Vary region or from other regions, when there was no access to the highway, those college kids stayed here, they settled here, and they needed background, so we put 26 billion in it over the years. And now all I hear is that it's not going on. I don't know why this isn't going on, but it was great programs, and we were very happy about it, because we saw something that we were able to find. [[22.10 hours]] So I'm asking you to move in, okay? There's still an intergenerational problem, seniors - there's no problem. The problem is living. The problem is that young people, when they don't have a place to live, some are considering whether they're having a baby or not, and that's obviously wrong. There was talk of it here. So the role of the state is to create an environment that allows most companies to secure adequate housing. Its own activities, i.e. the role of the State, are to supply the instruments for implementation. Moreover, housing offers are primarily intended to be dealt with by municipalities and cities. The housing market in the Czech Republic is a typical problem at the beginning of 2023 on the supply side, which is not geographically correctly distributed. There are significant regional differences in housing availability. The long-term trend in dynamically rising housing prices in relation to average wages is evident in the market, which also translate into rent increases. The problem is also the inaccessibility of housing for the newly entering market, which is enhanced by the most recent developments in the housing market. In December 2022, according to the Czech Banking Association, the annual fall in mortgage loans was 82 percent. For the whole year 2022, activity on the mortgage market has fallen by 63.6 %. Yes, this is, of course, the result of the crazy Czech National Bank policy that thinks it will defeat inflation. She didn't beat anything! [[In an elevated voice.]] Discuss Mr. Rusnok's media statements, promising how it's going to be! It's not working! He didn't miss once, but he ruined his place, okay? I'm bohužel so. And I don't know if this policy can actually happen that the prices of flats are cheaper, so far it doesn't look like it, and I doubt it. [[♪ to ♪]] The activity on the mortgage market has fallen by 63.6 %, so we can talk de facto about stopping the market. In addition to the increase in real estate prices, this problem is enhanced by the increase in mortgage rates, with the interest rate on really newly provided mortgage loans reaching almost 6% in December 2022 and thus at the highest levels since 2008 and 2009. The fact that the current state of the property market is not due to be corrected in the nearest period is demonstrated by the year-on-year decline in construction production, when construction authorities issued 15,6 percent less building permits year-on-year in December 2020 according to the latest data of the Czech Statistical Office. The total number of started flats decreased by 22 percent year on year. Czech construction for the whole year 2022 was faced with price growth and lack of building capacity. It is clear that the housing market crisis is linked to insufficient construction. The basic remedy for solving this crisis is based on increasing the construction of available apartments, the other steps will only address symptoms and can only lead to a short-term improvement in the trieste state, because what is small is expensive. [[k]] Thirteen points to deal with a crisis situation. Our ambition is to increase the availability of housing for all citizens. We realize that (in) the most difficult situation are mainly young families, singles or seniors. That's what I'm talking about. I hope it would be a good idea for the government to identify with it, but I suppose so. But the state should also think about housing for community-friendly professions. These are our priority groups defined by us. Firstly, the construction law created by our government was to significantly accelerate the construction process in the Czech Republic, primarily in the area with a major excess demand over housing supply. This would significantly trigger private capital construction. [[lp]] Unblocking the construction is a prerequisite for solving the housing crisis. We want to address the problem of housing shortages and high housing prices by promoting more cooperative housing, enabling cooperative housing companies to build and manage unnecessary regulatory and administrative barriers. [[without]] We also propose to create a state developer who will actively work with land and brownfields (in) state property. Yes, the UZSVM, the State Attorney's Office for Property Affairs, has a cloud of property, clouds, and no one has ever mapped it. By the way, I was the first finance minister to ever map state property. We found some companies there from the previous regime that were there. No one's ever done that. The state has huge assets, but they should have done it in the beginning, right after the revolution. Do you know how much land the Czech Railways sold for a kiss? [[I...]] I don't even remember the name who tunneled it all, the Czech Railways. Look, around here, in Prague, where everything is being built and who it belonged to. Selling land, land, really, that's a bad idea, so we're suggesting we create a state developer who will actively work with the land and property of the state. [[unintelligible]] It may be the construction of state apartments, yes, we talked about this in the past, that, of course, in the private sector today, employers, when they want to motivate employees, sometimes I have to build a family house or apartment or something, because, in short, there is still a situation in the labour market that we have the lowest unemployment in Europe. PPP rental projects. The PPP project, the only one in the history of this country, did Karel Havlíček, yes, that's the construction of the highway. I don't know what it is, 34 kilometers on Strakonicka, and that would be good if this government continued to do so. We wanted to do PPP projects, interconnections - what's that there, R35? - Hradec, Olomouc and connection Prague-Tábor. Endless story? I don't know what the Minister is doing, but it was difficult, we did it for the first time, Karel Havlíček really did it, and this government should keep doing it, that is, when Minister Stanjura says he doesn't have the money, but we think he has the money, but since he doesn't have it, as he claims, so let him do the PPP projects. Yes, it's built by a private, foreign company, the state rents it, it's normal. That's how you build administrative buildings in Germany, hospitals or other things, okay? So PPP, private public project, that's what they do and it's always been talked about, but we were the only ones who did it. There was an experiment in Moravia, but it turned out completely catastrophic. [[♪ to ♪]] So here I think it would be good to keep doing this, but, of course, if no one's talking to us, then of course it's up to you. And the apartments, right, the Letňany project, right. So many flats to free up, unbelievable! And we want you to start building state apartments with the possibility of subsequently buying a tenant, okay? So today in a profession that isn't, even the nurses - I remember how we dealt with the motivation of the nurses. There was a debate as to whether they were gonna get a pension, if they were gonna build some apartments to stay here, to be motivated. When we had the motivation material for the nurses, the doctors came, and then, unfortunately, it ended, that it didn't last, and the nurses are the most important, so... And of course, it's about advantageous loans. I don't know why Mr. Bartoš canceled for young people. PPP projects in the area of rental housing would also work, but it must be transparent and correct that the state would connect with developers and make some kind of agreement. But the state must behave like a private company, yes, it must fight for state property, of course. Multigenerational mortgages for which we propose to extend the maturity to 40 years with the guarantee of the state. This has already been passed on, for example, for apartment 2+kk the payment would have decreased from 14,000 to 8,200. That would be a significant help to many families. [[22.20 hours]] And of course we have to think... we're back to our seniors. We wanted to support their pension-age housing problem by building senior housing - senior housing communities, community care and nursing homes. Then there was another project, dividing multigenerational houses into separate housing units. In the period of a completely unprecedented halt to the real estate market, the distribution of multigenerational flats into separate housing units could bring about a relatively rapid change, which, moreover, is not significantly costly. The specific priority group is active students. We keep reading that there are outrageous sums on the dorms and that they are increasing, and students are asking for rental housing in cities with a shortage of dorms. By supporting the construction of the tracks, we want to return this group of tenants of the housing market to the dormitories. Together with supporting the construction of new tracks, we want to reduce the energy performance of existing tracks so that the tracks are economically more advantageous to students than rental housing. Moreover, other positive externalities associated with the university study are associated with housing on the tracks. Furthermore, we have requested an increase in investment in transport infrastructure, which may significantly increase interest, and for some at this time we want to open up a debate on the necessity of selected regulations related to the construction process. We demand the end of speculation with flats on digital platforms. The Czech municipalities should, like the German ones, have the right to speak in the way of renting apartments on Airbnb and other similar servers. The European Union has already issued a proposal for a regulation. For another, given the quite extraordinary situation, it is necessary to activate the subsidy title to support interest on the loan above 5% for selected population groups, on the MMR you have it in your drawer. And, of course, the tools of the state that are available - and for us it was - financial instruments, CZK 2 billion a year, the Construction, rental and social housing programme. Minister Bartoš stopped him, while up to CZK 3 million can be drawn from this programme for a cooperative share. For another, senior community living. Nursing homes, new elevators. Technical infrastructure, engineering networks for land, housing for municipalities, housing for young, ownership housing - unfortunately, this program was stopped again. Cooperative housing, financing cooperative participation - a huge interest, and it was stopped again, I don't understand why. And, of course, a new building bill, which I don't understand why it was stopped. So what should we do, and what does it take to make housing available? Immediately approve the new construction law, that is, unblocking the construction to start building. That's not what's happening. Authorisations are lengthy, bureaucratic. If an apartment building is allowed in Prague for more than five years on average, it is no wonder that less than half of the apartments needed are built here, the capital has calculated around 10,000 flats per year. [[♪ to ♪]] And what is little, it is expensive - that is what we talked about. In Prague and Brno, the price of a square metre of new building has already risen to CZK 100,000, while developers themselves admit that the construction costs per square metre themselves range between 40 and 50 thousand crowns. I hope that this is a fresh number and, of course, in addition to profit, high prices of land enter the price, but also financing costs, and if the developer takes a loan on the land and pays interest on it for a few years before he can get a building permit, the project is getting expensive. At the same time, he feeds teams of designers who are constantly redoing the project and an army of specialists who help him to undergo all official procedures. From the price of the flats, according to the builders, 10 to 15 % goes to these unnecessary costs. In order for our support programmes to make any sense, we must shorten the length of the construction process. The new building law that we have prepared is being redesigned by the new government and we believe that it is precisely in the light of the housing crisis that Members will behave responsibly, that the law will approve as soon as possible with all the changes we have proposed for the real acceleration of the building procedure. This should succeed in restarting the construction. In Prague alone, developers declare that they have more than 120,000 flats in preparation, but most of them are frozen in an inefficient licensing process and lengthy changes in territorial plans. The capital also has a number of construction closures on the land, on which tens of thousands of flats will be built, but it has to unblock them. Furthermore, the Housing Availability Act needs to be approved. The Ministry of Regional Development has prepared a law on the availability of housing, which should facilitate the construction of flats with the support of the public sector. There are definitions in the draft law on available housing that bind to social and affordable housing. These determine exactly what social housing and affordable housing should look like. Again, the new government is unnecessarily redoing and thereby prolonging the housing crisis. According to the latest figures, approximately 120,000 people need social housing, which corresponds to the need for approximately 65,000 flats. The municipalities should not resign from this program. They are closest to their citizens and know how many apartments they need. Moreover, the management of local authorities, as a result of the changes we have made in the budgetary determination of taxes, is achieving very good results. As of 30 November 2022, municipalities, regions and voluntary associations of municipalities managed a positive budget balance of 46,3 billion. Yes, you also forgot that when you talk about how when we had covid and how much money we had to pump into the economy, don't forget that we changed the budgetary determination of taxes and actually municipalities and cities had surplus management. In Poland, Morawiecki did it the other way around. He took everything upstairs, and we paid for everything in the covid. And to the regions, and to the municipalities, we also gave the bonus... Mrs. Schillerová, what was it called, the bonus? [[Ms Schiller off the microphone: Compensation bonus.]] Compensatory bonus. That's how Prague got 1,600, right? [[million]] So we've been very helpful, and now you, in the context of financing Ukrainian refugees, are paying the county, aren't you? [[A voice from the diaper.]] Excuse me? Do you want to vote? Yes? About what? Then call the Prime Minister and tell him he found the 19 billion. We're going home, aren't we? [[Laughing in the hall, applause.]] [[You.]] You complained that I didn't go to work, so now I'm at work, although I'm used to another job, but good. [[Laughs in the hall.]] You have the money, don't you, Minister? [[Voice off the microphone.]] Who doesn't have it? [[Voice off the microphone.]] 19 billion, well... So this housing, please, is the problem of the young generation, yes, because families need to live, they need to be sure of the future, and kindergarten and school and background and sport, they need all this. So they were in surplus, and now that I'm looking at those public budgets, they're going to be in a heavy package, right? [[municipaliti]] There's gonna be hundreds of billions in a heavy package, right? [[Voices from the diaper.]] Or maybe you'll take it away from them, so I don't know, those are your numbers. Unfortunately, under the State Investment Support Fund, the grant programme Construction, which could be used by municipalities, no longer works. It is necessary to use the new program or run the construction program for accessible housing, consider changes in grant programs so that private investors or non-profit sector can enter them, of course always after agreement with the municipality. This is, for example, the Construction programme, which only municipalities have been able to use so far. Of course, the construction we talked about with Klára, it was there that 20 percent of the 100 percent subsidy. [[has been]] But maybe it was a mistake that we insisted on social housing, I don't know, Klára's not here, but... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Yeah, there he is. Well, that we may, I don't know... If it had spread, that it was for young families, that it might have worked better or... I don't understand, but of course it's always about the people who run it. When he's a good mayor, he cares, everybody moves in and has background, but I'm nowhere else. Building savings. We perceive the efforts of the government to abolish and limit support for building savings. In the event of enforcement, we demand that these funds be maintained in housing policy and redirected to the construction project of state flats with the possibility of subsequently purchasing tenants. Creating a state developer. The State developer should work actively with land owned by state institutions. State institutions are the organisational components of the state, state contribution organizations, state funds, state enterprises, national enterprise Budějovický Budvar, Railway Administration... a number of land and brownfields are suitable for construction of state apartments with the possibility of subsequently purchasing tenants or PPP projects in the area of housing construction. That's a beautiful project, and I want to see within the five-wheel drive how everyone agrees to hand it over to somebody. [[22.30 hours]] But the resortism, I don't know. Maybe five-calice works well that they don't have any resortism. Some land and brownfields are not suitable for building apartments for preferred priority groups. For example, noisy, which requires the use of material, increasing the cost of construction, or the private sector may be interested in the land. The privatisation of these land may therefore be with a contractual condition for the construction of a specified number of flats on specific land. What have we done in recent years? During our government, MMR paid about CZK 0.5 billion a year for housing subsidy programmes, 1 billion a year for the State Investment Support Fund and 4 billion IROP. The MMR, together with the Fund, supported the construction of more than 24,000 apartments for socially weaker households, seniors and young people with guaranteed rent, not to mention loans for the acquisition or reconstruction of property housing. In the new Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which is in force until 2027, subsidies for the construction of social housing will also be allocated to approximately CZK 3 billion. During the last programming period, several thousand flats should be created by 2023, a circus of 5,000 flats for socially weaker citizens. The support reached CZK 4 billion. The SFPI has a housing program that allows you to use resources to support your own housing for people under 40 years of age. The new programme is based on the previous programme Loans for young people, however, brings a number of news and extends the range of applicants. The most important change is, above all, the displacement of the age limit from 36 to 40 years and the possibility of using the loan as well as the purchase of the cooperative share. That was stopped. I don't know, Mr. Bartoš stopped everything, he put on that ad, he was looking for someone, I don't know what he wanted to build apartments - he stopped everything. That's too bad. Then there's a program to reconstruct the existing municipal housing fund. There are 30,000 flats in Prague, but only one tenth is vacant due to the need for reconstruction. However, cities and municipalities still have to deal with increased costs, so the state could help. And then here's my favorite gardening law. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm proud of it. I have passed two laws here - the EET and the Gardening Law. Well, you guys are laughing, but back in the day, we had gardens, we had peppers and tomatoes, and we had a recipe for pâté and everything, because it wasn't just bananas, it was nothing. And now it looks like we're going back to the gardens, and I'm proud to have a garden law, even though I'm here... When I was promoting him, I was telling Mrs. Richterová, who taught us here about the covid, so I'm the law of gardening... Why am I talking about this? Well, because how much is the pepper? Havlíček isn't here. [[Vice-President Havlíček: I'm here, I'm here.]] Here we are, yes, here... that it doesn't work out for you, they said it's gonna be cheaper in the summer or something. Oh, please, I'm fascinated by the fact that there are different people on TV who are pretending to understand who's making the money in that vertical. I wonder why no one invested in the Czech food industry? Why aren't there any foreign companies here besides the Francouz who make, or the Ital are here, they're gonna make parmesan, they're gonna take it out, or the Francouz are gonna make cheese, they're gonna take it out. And there were two fundamental mistakes. First mistake, and I'm sorry to say it, but it's our ODS again. And you know what? That on May 10, 2011, you approved an amendment to the Foreign Exchange Act, which abolishes restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land, forests and other properties in the Czech Republic for foreigners. That was a huge mistake. The Polák did not allow it, Maďar, there can buy land only Maďar, maximum 300 hectares, and here I read, it was the deník, "The Landowners Union fears the sale of agricultural land into foreign hands, said today at a press conference by his President František Janda. The Czech Republic negotiated a ban on the sale of land to foreigners when it joined the European Union seven years ago. This exception from the Union ceased to apply at the beginning of this May, according to Janda, while ownership of the land is defined by the Czech statehood" - and is correct. "We do not support the sale of land to foreigners, but we are seriously concerned that such developments may occur, Janda said." According to him, violent collectiveization in the 1950s broke the ties of the owners to the soil when it disbanded the former peasants not only to other parts of the Republic but also abroad. "Another problem is that all agriculture is based mainly on user relations," Janda said. It is due to the collectivization and subsequent historical development in the Czech Republic that more than 80 per cent of farmers now operate on leased land, not their own land, and the average farm area is the largest in the EU. The Senate discussed the amendment. Last week the House approved an amendment to the foreign exchange law, which abolishes restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land, forests and other properties in the Czech Republic for foreigners. The amendment, which the Senate will now receive to discuss, is to begin to apply on the day of the Decree in the Collection of Laws. The neighbouring countries, unlike the Czech Republic, have applied for an extension of the derogation from Brusel. It was also called for unsuccessfully by the Czech Agrarian Chamber, but the founder of the ODS, a Miroslav Kalousek of the TOP 09, had previously pointed out that there are two ways to circumvent the current law, so many of the land is already owned by foreigners. Fatal mistake! Fatal error, okay? Because the land, the globe will not grow, and I, when I arrived in Pruhonica in July 1992, stood there a meter of 1,000, today costs 17,000, and it is not. And it's the same with the soil. You shouldn't have done that, that's where it started, because you said agriculture, not interested, has no electoral potential. And the grocery store, another one. And then what? That was one major mistake, and the other was - and this is the work of the ČSSD - that basically it was said across the board, subsidies per hectare, right? So the farmer has a hectare, and he decides what he's gonna put in there, and it's his decision. Not that Babišův crap, please, nonsense. And if anyone had said at that time: If you make peppers, vegetables - how much self-sufficiency do we have in vegetables? 25, 30 percent? Potatoes, pigs - they were supposed to get more subsidies. So these two fatal mistakes have caused us not to be self-sufficient today. And that pig, I don't know - last year supposedly some, I don't know how many, 200,000 sows less and self-sufficiency in pork 20, 25 percent, that's hell. So why is anyone wondering now? Who's calling the shots here? When someone says he's making decisions, there's this gentleman - I don't want to say his name better - who normally lies brutally. I don't want to make too much of a fuss here either, but let Mr... I think the Minister, I have to compliment him on the sugar that he did well. Yes, we only have seven sugar factories - every businessman would only want to have six competitors, not thousands - and normally let the UOHS check the number of rolls sold in the chain. You know that? Crown 70 and sold for three. So we can figure out where it is, right? So this nonsense... So do it, if the Prime Minister loves Poland like this, everyone goes to Biedronka... I don't know if Mr. President, if it's not fake, but whatever, I was there to look, too, and there's VAT zero. I don't know. Yeah, but it can't be with VAT, so they keep it - I don't know if the drugstores kept it at the time, or how it's checked, but it says in Biedronka it says - I don't know - butter, I don't know what it costs, 50, and it was 60 before the government's intervention, okay? Now I'm making it up. Of course, that's the Polish chain, so here's the debate as it is, as it isn't. [[2.40 hours]] And most importantly, everyone, we're at ČEZ again. I mean, the bakers and those who make meat there all need electricity, right? So who's wondering if they want to raise something? And the strength of the strings? They don't even have a problem with Coca-Cola. So, I don't know, I don't want to get involved, but the fact that he's... Even the debate in the past, Minister Schillerová, former Minister, remembers when I asked how someone would buy yogurt, I don't know, for 12 crowns and sell it in action for six? And for six crowns, there's no VAT, that's what I asked the Treasury Department once, nobody answered me. Is that possible? We lost VAT, didn't we lose VAT? What is it, then? So I don't know. I don't want to get back into it, so I'm glad that since you've already sold the land to strangers, that I've pushed through the gardens, so we can probably, people, grow. It's sad, I say it with exaggeration, but it's hell. And maybe the Minister of Agriculture should think about how to promote self-sufficiency when we've already missed the train, okay? A potato power once! And ask, fruit and everything, it's all gone, unfortunately, the situation is not good, and it's not our manufacturers who decide, and of course it's the ones who buy it and import it. How's it looking? Do I still have to talk, Mrs. Schillerová? [[Laughs in the hall.]] I can read the innovation strategy here, or I could evaluate the government's programming statement if they wanted to, the Prime Minister didn't do it... [[Laughter.]] No, I must commend the cooperation with Mr Blažek that we are dealing with - and that is not fun - sexual violence against women, and I hope that we can agree on a definition of rape there. I did it as Prime Minister - I didn't invent it, I was chairman of the Gender Commission. By the way, we've also been involved in helping give births, this is a big topic, and it would be a good thing, Táňa Malá, so we can really deal with these things as definitions of rape, introducing certificates, solving sexual violence, these are things that maybe we could agree on if you don't want to agree on those other things anymore. So I'm not gonna terrorize you anymore. I could read here for the Secretary of Defense... here I have the material... barracks, what's it called? Miroslav Kalousek and twenty years of his official political games? And when Mrs. Černochová is talking about the army, she's definitely forgotten what was here until 2013, right? And I have a great thesis here. It's called Corruption in the Army of the Czech Republic, diploma thesis, written by František Šmíd. And do you know how many sides it has? Seventy-five, and I don't think you want that. No? Okay. So, please, I'd like to ask you here again, say hello to the Prime Minister when he wants to join this company. He said I was splitting it up... I'm not splitting it up. I'm the proud populist, he's not a populist, because he doesn't like retired people, but he could make that gesture. Really, 19 billion is ridiculous, so stop it and try to have a normal conversation with us, huh? But if the Prime Minister isn't famous, maybe for the first time in my life, I'll go demonstrate and convince the new President that he'll give you the veto. Well, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-01-ps2021-055-02-001-951.u9	Thank you. In the meantime, I've begun to engage and we will now proceed to the 55th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. Yes, I'll check you out in a minute. I will just read the apologies: Mr Jiří Carbol from 2.1 to 9 o'clock for health reasons, Mrs Lenka Dražilová from 7 to 9 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Milan Feranec from 22 to 9 for health reasons, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová from 18.10 to 22 and then from 22.40 to 1 o'clock for family reasons, Mrs Helena Válková from 20 to 1 o'clock for health reasons and Minister Balaš from 20.30 to 9 for no reason. [[There's a knock on the cards.]] Yes, I understand. At this point, I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign in. And I recall that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I see everyone's already here. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered 149, for was 88, against was 60. Result: accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved.
