ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 104 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday 31 May 2023. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Tom Philipp and Members of Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm gonna go on and call in my coworkers and co-workers from the lobby. We would now proceed to the vote. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 1 registered 88 Members and Members, for 85, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Members Tom Philipp and Mr Petr Vrána. I have two messages here. Mr Havránek votes with replacement card number 39 and Mr Jáč votes with replacement card number 38. I hereby declare that until the beginning of the meeting, they have applied for their absence from the meeting these Members and Members: Pekarová Adamová Markéta from 12 to 21 hours - working grounds, Bašta Jaroslav - whole day, health reasons, Bělica Josef - whole day, Kovářová Věra, Berkovec Stanislav - whole day, foreign trip, Bernard Josef - whole day, medical Olga, Blaha Stanislav - Růžička Pavel day, foreign trip, Richterová Jiří - liška Petr, Stržínek Robert, Kocmanová Jaroslav - Lacina Jan day, working Michaela, medical Janulík, ochodnický Martina - Miloslav day, foreign trip, Fridrich Stanislav - whole Hendrych, medical Igor, Hájek Jiří - whole day, working days, kolovratník Martin, Faltýnek Jaroslav - whole day, kuchař Jan, Oulehlová Klára, working Renata, sitting day, working day, Dvořák day No reason given, Špičák Julius - whole day, health reasons, Tureček Karel - whole day, health reasons, Válková Helena - whole day, foreign trip, voborský Milada - whole day, foreign trip, Vondrák Ivo - whole day, working reasons, Zajíčková Renáta - whole day, working reasons, Zlínský Vladimír - whole day, health reasons. They apologize from the members of the government: Baxa Martin - until 14:00 and from 18:30 pm, working grounds, Bek Mikuláš - full day, working reasons, Blažek Pavel - within 20 hours, health reasons, Dvořák Martin - from 12 to 22:00 and from 23 o'clock, working reasons, Hladík Petr - full day, working reasons, Langšádlová Helena - from 14 to 17:30 pm, working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan - from 12 to 18 pm and from 19 pm, working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk - whole day, working reasons, Šalomoun Michal - from 12 to 19 pm and from 21 pm for working reasons. Next, I have a message. Mr Hájek takes back his apology from 16 o'clock. I therefore have another apology from Mr Hájek at 18 o'clock for work reasons. Ambassador Jiří Hájek cancels his apology, or is that a deal? Yes, it is, at 6:00. Thank you. We will now proceed to the 67th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I now have several applications with priority rights. First of all, President Marek is the Výborný and President Schillerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, colleagues, I wish you a beautiful Thursday noon. Because it is clear from the circular and media information that we are going to be demanding, but I believe that fair and factual debate, debate, debate, discussion, and it is appropriate that we can move the draft amendment of this law today to further expert discussions on the board of committees, especially the Committee on Social Policy, but because we started at 12 o'clock, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do this within 19 o'clock, so I would like to ask, Madam Vice-President, to vote in order to be sure at the very beginning that today we will act and vote in substance after 19 o'clock, 21 o'clock or 24 o'clock, the day after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u3	Yes, I am, therefore, recording your proposal and voting on it. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. Your proposal is that we will act and vote in substance and territorial terms after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered by 123 Members and Members, for 64, versus 48. The motion was accepted. I'm saying we've approved... Sorry - vote check. Everything okay? [[No objections.]] Now we would continue. Madam President, everything is fine and I am also giving you my word. You're logged in with priority rights. And then Vice-President Havlíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor. Please, co-workers, co-workers, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express serious doubt about the sincerity of the efforts of the ministers of this government on matters related to the care of our public finances. It is highly unlikely that the cabinet, which is unable and willing to actively address completely objective current budgetary problems, could make a positive contribution to addressing the problem of long-term pension issues, except pension issues. One of the outputs of yesterday's government exit meeting in Vimperk was the shocking announcement by Prime Minister Petr Fiala that the government is not going to deal with the fiasco of this year's state budget. Yes, you can hear me well. Although the state budget deficit reached no external shocks at the end of May...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, please, if you have a necessary matter to discuss, please be in the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u6	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Although the state budget deficit reached a record-breaking amount at the end of May without external shocks, it has technically touched its year-round ceiling, it is burdened with proven errors of approximately CZK 150 billion and is dealing with historically unprecedented problems on the income side, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic expressed himself at a press conference - I quote: "There is no dispute or hesitation in this. But we want parameters well set. And that the decision will be in favour of the Czech Republic." And he kept going. I quote: "If we have to save this year, which I do not rule out, we do not want to go somewhere in infrastructure or something that simply guarantees our further prosperity, but we would try to save on the operating costs of the state. But as it happens, we'll only see it in the next few days. Therefore, we will not discuss the topic today, because we will not see the figures on how this year's budget is actually going to develop until the summer." End of quote. You know, I understand that the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister are friends. And I even understand that accepting an adequate response from the Prime Minister would mean admitting that the by-product of this friendship was the occupation of the most important resort of a completely incompetent person. There's just been a mistake, and mistakes happen in politics. Fine. So for personal reasons, the finance minister would decide to quit. It wouldn't be anything new under the sun. As early as Monday, an extraordinary management meeting, directed by the Minister, could be convened in Leten 15 which, instead of layering problems and excuses, will actively address problems. Oh, no. The Prime Minister has decided not to admit his biggest personnel error. The by-product of this friendship will be in addition to the far-reaching damage, gradual paralysis of individual state agendas, chaos, investment bankruptcy and additional costs of debt service of the Czech Republic. And I've listed only what will certainly happen only until the summer when the government, according to its prime minister, intends to evaluate the current fiasco. The credibility of the Czech Republic with its creditors, rating agencies and international institutions is at stake, at the latest in autumn. As a result, this friendship can cost the Czech Republic a loss of sovereignty. Perhaps you will agree with me that the government and its Prime Minister, who are prepared to make such a high sacrifice, should not go into solving the country's long-term problems at all. The credibility of these efforts is absolutely zero in advance. As long as the government faces an acute threat of non-compliance with revenue and overcoming the state budget spending, which in combination means roughly CZK 150 billion, as long as it moves at the edge of liquidity risks, as long as the realistic state budget for this year is completely untrustworthy and totally inappropriate. Just as you would not want financial literacy to be taught by a lecturer who repays an accountant or prepares your wedding reception by a convicted poisoner, similarly bizarrely sounds the reform ambitions of the government that built its budget on accounting tricks in the range of 2% of GDP. Yesterday, in the Committee on Budgets, I initiated a resolution ordering the Minister of Finance to take part in the next committee meeting. He doesn't go there at all. It cannot be excluded that its moral-free properties do not allow sufficient self-esteem, the less any remedy. At the same time, it is obvious that he will not get feedback from the Prime Minister as would normally happen under standard circumstances. For this reason, the least we can do as a budget committee to monitor the collapse of the legal balance of management is to invite him and demand answers and solutions in the light of clear numbers. I am very sorry that the Committee on Budgets has not adopted this resolution, and the Minister is unlikely to come to any of our meetings again. And as we can see, he's not even here at the plenary. Are the members of the government coalition really sure that the head of the state register, the architect of the flagship of your government, the tax packages, the creator of the law of the year, as well as the main economic actor of your cabinet, is able to fully oversee the consequences of his failure to act? I believe not. [[12.20 hours]] Unfortunately, so far, the government coalition has not yet fully realised that this historically unprecedented failure, which will enter the economic policy and public finance textbooks, is also an unprecedented failure of the government as a whole. So I will tell you from this point of view what is happening to the state budget. The state budget deficit reached CZK 271.4 billion at the end of May. And if the Ministry of Finance had not purposely withheld the payment of advance payments to social services and state funds from Zbyněk Stanjura's instruction, after five months of the year, we are technically at an annual limit of CZK 295 billion. This situation occurs at record inflation revenues of the state budget, which in just the first five months exceeded CZK 59 billion. It occurs in a situation where our economy faces no unpredictable shocks, lockdowns, or crises. And the reasons for this shocking economic outcome are extremely painful for the taxpayer. One. The disastrous use of European money continues. At the end of May, this government exhausted only 33.9 percent of the annual plan. The May minimum is 45 per cent. Since one percentage point corresponds to approximately CZK 1.5 billion, we are talking about 17 billion allocation for the Czech Republic, which we leave lying in Brussels. Together with last year's unspent 54 billion, it is already astronomical 71 billion crowns, mostly from the last programming period, which we can lose irrecoverably at the end of the year. The period ends when we can complete the programme period 2014 to 2020 under rule N + 3. And, of course, the amount is increasing significantly every day of the inactivity of the finance department. Logically, because the flow of drawing is prevented by the current budget spasms the Minister of Finance got into the Czech Republic. Two. Huge problems in tax collection. Following an adjustment from inflation, tax collection has been the worst since the crisis year 2009. While tax collection at the end of May normally oscillates between 35 and 40 per cent of the year's plan, this year's collection is only 32 per cent. Each unselected percentage means 9.5 billion crowns missing on the revenue side. So we are talking about at least 30 billion crowns, which the state budget lost only in the first five months of this year! Tax collection on tobacco products is falling, excise alcohol tax collection is falling, amateurism and naivety of extra-profit tax makers is revealed. And of course, the abolition of the EET and the senseless philosophy of the ODS are fully manifest, that the fight against tax evasion and fraud is a bullying of entrepreneurs. No, it's the protection of the honest ones! Third and last but not least, the Ministry of Finance has, of course, uncompromisingly caught up with accounting tricks worth CZK 150 billion, each one of which in the past would have led to the immediate withdrawal of the Minister of Finance from his post. Let me just remind you briefly: The budget does not count on CZK 15 billion in extraordinary pension valorisation, although the government has been proven to have it since the autumn of last year at the latest. And I'm not going to mention that it slowed down the valorization in the unconstitutional way that we attacked in the Constitutional Court, so the amount would have been much higher. The state budget takes 7.5 billion from health insurance companies to finance the public health insurance system, which the government has sent to red numbers by reducing payments for state insured persons. The budget lacks 30 billion for the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure projects. The State Fund is therefore to issue its own bonds, which will be less advantageous than the State would borrow. Turkish farming! Move the deficit from the state budget to the SFDI. The budget counts... This is particularly spicy, and with my colleague Richard Brabec, the shadow minister of the environment, we have been drawing attention to this with the common and several hands for more than six months. This is a scam I'm about to say! This is a classic scam. The budget estimates 50 billion for the Ministry of Environment from the so-called Modernization Fund, although the drawdown is not regulated by national legislation, the necessary notifications by the European Commission and the EIP are missing. And the insolence didn't stop in medium-term frames. The 50 billion are still there in 2024 and 2025 under the approved medium-term perspective. This is a scandal! This was not allowed by any finance minister in the modern history of the Czech Republic! This is a complete, utter outrage! And we're happy. The Prime Minister is satisfied. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, Last but not least, the Ministry of Finance does not collect only billions of 40 on windfall taxes and excess income payments planned by 100 billion, but, as the Ministry itself has admitted. So promises that significant revenues from electricity producers will arrive in the second half of the year are completely untrustworthy excuses and have no support in reality. You're already counting on the revenue, they're gonna be smaller, there's not gonna be anything out there, beyond that. According to the Ministry of Finance's report, the state has already received extraordinary revenues for a large part during the first five months of this year. In the case of over-income levies by electricity producers, this is even 80 per cent. It is more than clear that, even in the case of an announced commitment to expenditure of 20 billion, which the government was supposed to discuss yesterday and ultimately did not act as we learned from the Prime Minister, compliance with the deficit of 295 billion is excluded. So even if the finance minister managed to push through the $20 billion he wanted to cut this year, as he told us last week, we learned in the media, which is about 10% of the operating expenditure this year, about 4 percent of the wage volume by such a rough estimate. And I heard a statement yesterday from Minister Rakušan of Vimperk who said he couldn't see the space to cross off somewhere this year, that he'd already cut off what he could. I get it. I understand he doesn't want to go into the living and touch the salaries of police officers, firemen and others. I totally understand, I get it. I just don't understand how the Treasury Secretary can say that. High five in public space, those ministers will be threatened, Minister Bartoš said - I'm just quoting public resources - that's not what we agreed. He literally said, that's not what we agreed. So what? And so it wasn't discussed yesterday because it's gonna wait till summer. What are they waiting for? For what? They don't know what to do. They're waiting to come up with a fairy tale, some story they're gonna turn into. As it explains to the public, they lied before the election, they lied after the election, all the time. You can't talk this out. The only thing the government will achieve by stubbornly rejecting the state budget is the difficulties of managing the state's liquidity, debt services and threatening three decades of the Czech Republic's reputation as a credible partner with a transparent fiscal policy. The stínový Government of the ANO movement held an exit meeting in Mladá Boleslav on Tuesday. And, of course, that's where we touched on how the government perceives the actions of individual ammunition. I will remind you that in addition to the so-called recovery package, for me the tax package, this is a classic tax package, which is actually, again, a tax package, last week the Ministry of Finance presented another acceleration package for next year. [[12.30 hours]] And as if it were not enough, along with the publication of a shocking report on the state budget management this year, it came with a vague report on blunt cuts this year. And this year's reduction in unspecified operating expenditure - and I've already said what it would mean - I'll repeat it again: 10 percent out of service, 4 percent out of wage. We have heard the reaction of some ministers, so once again a surprise. The Minister is in charge. He said, "I'm not gonna do those PR meetings you did at the Treasury Department with the ministers, then you went to a press conference." No, he's telling them in eKLEP, where they'll read how much he'll cut next year. Then he dictates it to the government, and then he says, "It's the government, me, nothing, it's the government, or a zealous pen." Thus, no zealous clerk's pen will do anything without permission and the award of a political representation will not be allowed to do so. Even that budget proposal for 2024 wouldn't have left if it had been on a so-called reporter - you probably already know what reporters are, right? - the Minister's signature wasn't on the so-called reporter. No clerk would dare. So the minister knew what he was sending for terror, quietly, to eKLEP. That is what I have now touched on the budget for 2024, but I'm sure we'll be dealing with this in the coming weeks and months - or I will definitely - in detail. Valorization for 2024. What do you say, five-caliber doctors? What do you say we bloody negotiated a compromise here when you took 14 billion health insurance companies last few months after defending us, agreed for three years some compromise to slow down the valorization so that health care companies know what they're up to, so we can now read in eKLEP that it won't pay for 2024? Are you okay with that, the doctors, the five-wheelers, or the ones you're dealing with? Are you okay with that? Are you okay with the fact that we read there, that education is going to take 30 billion? Are you really okay with that, if you're going to add 15 more on the basis of the law that approved this five-calice - or we voted for it too - the law on pedagogics, where it's actually increasing - did it bother us that only teachers - where teachers are raising their salary and giving themselves - are becoming the law-mandatory spending, which is going to cost some 15 billion, and 30 are getting married? 12.5 traffic, now that there's a 30 billion hole in there? Oh, my God. Pleasant God, complete chaos, insecurity, across the economy, communities and regions are not excluded. In fact, I have noticed that hiding concern over this utterly unnecessary chaos is really becoming difficult even for some policies in the government's five-calice jersey. I take the situation from last Thursday, when the Ministry of Finance, in addition to the expected report on the current result of the management, filled us with information about tax package number 2, the shocking draft of the state budget for next year, the first proposal, and on top of that the vague report on blunt cuts this year, allow me to compare it to the following situation. A half-crazy cook burns a fish to death in an oven. And instead of apologizing to the guests at the table, he opened the oven, blew the fish, blew it out, learned from his mistakes, so in vain attempt to disguise his failure, he set fire to the kitchen line and then in the bathroom causes a flood. So roughly in such a situation of complete chaos, the Minister of Finance threw not only his government colleagues, but also cities, regions, municipalities, but, of course, all those who must confess for whatever reason in the fiscal policy of the Czech Republic. Who wants to plan, invest, build, promote growth, solve problems, is completely paralyzed and lost. At this point, no one knows anything. As far as we know and know, the draft budget for next year, for which the Finance Minister does not even know for sure, even though he and his team have compiled it, signed it and submitted it to the government and individual ministers for analysis. It can't be any other way, colleagues. He can't. The draft budget counts as I read it in the internal eKLEP, ladies and gentlemen, with the following parameters - I will choose the most important ones. Ministry of Education minus 29,3 billion; Ministry of Transport minus 12,5 billion; Ministry of Regional Development minus 13.6 billion; The Ministry of Health - Resort minus 4.4 billion and the reduction in valorisation of payments for state insured persons minus 14 billion; Ministry of Industry and Trade minus 14.9 billion; Ministry of Interior minus 8.2 billion; Ministry of Environment minus 7.9 billion; Ministry of Agriculture minus 5 billion; Ministry of Justice minus 2.5 billion; National Sports Agency minus 1.7 billion; science and research - stone! - 10 percent down, so about CZK 4 billion only from national sources. And so I could go on. You're not kidding. Don't say "horse pen." So you're not talking to each other? Is that what the Finance Minister dictates to you? So what? Or do you even know what's in it? It's not possible. It's not normal. We can illustrate on the example of science and research what the government's five-calice is about to do. The current expenditure to support our researchers and innovators from the state budget amounts to about CZK 40 billion. After a 10% reduction, they would fall to CZK 36 billion. This would eject us at nominal prices somewhere to the level of 2018, 2019, i.e. five or six years ago. But it's actually even worse, because the real value of each koruna as a result of volatile inflation has, of course, fallen significantly. So, taking into account inflation, with the funding of science, research and innovation, we would return roughly in time to 2014 and 2015. Is this your support for science and research for which you set up a special ministry, a special minister, to fight this kind of collapse? There are a number of university educators among you, people who are involved in science. Are you happy with that? I'll be glad to hear that when we discuss the budget. And the Minister of Finance, when asked about it on Czech TV on a discussion show where only nodlers went with him, because he doesn't go to any proper clashes, he avoids them, so he said: let's wait until the approved budget is ready. So I'm nothing, I'm a musician, let's wait till it's done. I probably didn't even design it. I guess I wasn't even there. And the number doesn't match either. At a time when the world of technology is going through an industrial revolution, the world will change faster than ever, while responsible states are investing record amounts in the sustainability and competitiveness of their industry, knowing that winners take everything and stunted stay on the beggar stick, so at that time the Czech Republic intends to sharpen investment in its future to a level ten years ago. And I can continue with the next example. Health, I've already named those amounts for you, minus 18.4 billion, that's the draft budget for next year. Is the Minister of Health satisfied with him? In what situation? In a situation where our health care has not yet recovered from last year's reduction in payments for state insured persons and the adoption of inflation did not correspond to the increase in these payments for this year. In other words, at a time when health care is facing the full impact of artificially reducing the state budget at the expense of the reserves of health insurance companies created in the years past, at the time of our government. [[12.40 hours]] Is that the thank you for the covid? Is that the thank you for how they handled everything? That's what you guys were talking about in the past period. Even more and a thicket. You just get to power, you forget everything. Classic your politics. Classic. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you know - I draw from public resources - that health insurance companies are managing a deficit of CZK 7.5 billion this year, after showing a deficit of less than CZK 2.3 billion last year. It follows that health care - and I will repeat it here - only works through the reserves of health insurance companies, which must be bailed out by the steps of Mr Stanjura and Mr Válek. These reserves, which were still in 2020 at 18 per cent of annual expenditure in the system, will fall to only 9 per cent of annual expenditure at the end of this year, according to the report by the Ministry of Finance and Health. Yes, they fall in half. How long do you think the health insurance companies can handle this? Please bear in mind 2009 when the economy collapsed and only because of the 14 percent reserves at that time did not affect patients. At present, we have come to a critical level, and this does not involve any pandemic, and the economy is still in a technical recession, which can change very quickly with regard to the current adjustment of our economic policy. So let me get this straight. While at the time of the 2009 and 2012 to 2013 recessions, 14% of the reserves at the time ensured the maintenance of the availability and quality of health services for patients, although the choice of insurance was stagnating. At the moment, only at the beginning of a possible recession, we do not have these reserves. Instead of addressing an unsustainable situation, the Ministry of Finance proposes to collect the health care of historically unprecedented CZK 18.4 billion. This will, of course, have far-reaching implications for the financing of health care and the availability of healthcare. The current level of reserves already means that, in the event of a loss of income, insurance companies would be able to finance health services for approximately 30 days. Next year, such a blackout would mean an immediate collapse and a direct threat to health care in the Czech Republic. It can be understood that for TOP 09, which does not conceal its long-term dream of introducing patient participation and health fees, a collapsing health system would revisit an interesting challenge. The ODS, which is a master of fast and quiet privatization of all kinds, would also find many interesting opportunities in the collapsing system. But I would like to turn to parties whose genetic equipment is not limited to the scheme to subfinance, monetize - I mean pirát, KDU-ČSL. It is you who can stop this dangerous game of a proven right-wing brotherhood. But we need to act quickly. Because the dice have already been cast. And the Minister of Finance doesn't really wait for arguments, because he knows them very well because of his expertise. His intentions can only be interrupted by a decisive political force that cannot come from a place other than a government five-wheeler. You have tried to remove the crazy intention of the Ministry of Finance to reduce the gambling tax which the ODS intended to spend a billion crowns on selected lottery business players. You guys should do it again right now. And I could talk about the impact of the mentioned cuts on the other ministries, as I've named them one by one. Education, transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade are all about our future. Our future, which we are losing to this government's economic policy. The YES movement is not going to accept that after eight years of our government, when we were not only fiscally responsible but also prosperous countries of prosperous people, a government has come to make us the only country in the EU from year to year, which, in proportion to GDP, deepens its debt, which stifles its economy, thereby only deepening the deficit, debt, and the international position of the Czech Republic. Who wants to devastate science, research and innovation. Unaccessive healthcare to ordinary citizens. The packages and budgets you presented are full of harmful nonsense and conflicting measures. They are sewn with a hot needle by the Minister, whose expertise is sufficiently demonstrated by this year's budget. If you don't want to listen to the opposition, and obviously you don't want to, at least listen to the expert apparatus on your departments. Despite the military advisors of Minister Stanjury, whose only qualification is the ODS party book, the Ministry of Finance sometimes hears the competent voice of the expert apparatus sending the SOS signal. Just read the explanatory report on the tax package, where you will see a clear warning in the impact analysis on page 13 that - I quote: "The costs of this package include slowing down, or even a decline in the country's economic performance, rising unemployment, negative social effects, risks of loss of credibility, especially if consolidation is poorly communicated and failed in the outcome." So many quotes from the explanatory memorandum to the tax package. Please take these signals - your favorite word - take these signals seriously. They rely on years of experience and economic practice, which the economic ministers of this government desperately lack, and they try to replace it with pretend sovereignty, escape to ideologies and dogmas. Take your intentions back while there's still time. And we will be happy if you cooperate with us on an appropriate and appropriate form of budgetary consolidation. Please do not say that the YES movement has no own proposals. The YES movement has an exact idea of how to get public finances in shape without destroying the economy. And since many of you are still repeating the fact that you do not know our proposals, I think it is necessary to repeat them to you. The YES movement has long been proposing to follow the gradual budgetary consolidation plan presented by the Government of Andrej Babiš in 2021, which works with a reduction of the structural deficit by half a percentage point of GDP. The main pillars include reducing the amount of money for operation, but through digitization, merging the cancellation agendas and reducing the expenditure of chapters by between 5 and 10 per cent, at least three unnecessary ministries and effective drawdown of 962 billion crowns from the EU programming period 2021 to 2027. Follow up on a successful fight against tax evasion instead of raising taxes. A proven philosophy of the ANO movement is to collect more taxes without having to increase their rates. Continue implementation of the action plan to control transfer prices of multinational corporations, active analysis of data from control reports, extension of the competence of Customs in the area of tax evasion detection, setting up fair rules for the shared economy and launching a discussion across the political spectrum on a permanent return to sales record. Predictable increases in some excise taxes, especially tobacco products, hard alcohol - we agree here - as well as the enforcement of taxation of multinational companies at European level. [[12.50 hours]] In the case of excise duties - I repeat - we agree, and we do not even understand your delay, when these taxes on addiction could have been increased since January this year. Well, of course, raise the gambling tax uncompromisingly. We have always fought against gambling and have proved that the Czech Republic has stopped being a casino in the heart of Europe thanks to our new gambling law and gambling tax. We demand a consistent revision of tax exemptions, which, in addition to positive fiscal impacts, will reduce the administrative complexity of the entire tax system. However, not the exceptions of a social character on which you have lit up, but the exceptions imposed by powerful economic players. I will remind you of lower investment taxation in our parliamentary term. Or let me remind you now that it could be a lower taxation of investment funds, tax exemptions for donations to political parties and movements. We, too, have embarked on an integrated, more than 20 years-long exemption for insurance companies. It was a big fight here. Big fight. ODS, TOP 09, fought, lasted for over a year. But we fought it out. Why should insurance companies have tax-recognition reserves without limitation, without ceiling? No company has that. No normal functioning company. That's how we fought this. Don't be afraid of them. I know it's hard, but it needs to be done. We want to implement countercyclical economic policy, growth investment in full use of the National Recovery Plan, combined with low taxes and raising the standard of living to achieve stable GDP growth and dynamically rising public budget revenues. The public sector is not outside the economy, the public sector is an integral part of it. Public budgets affect the economy and are influenced by it. The first line of defense against recession is the investment activity of the state. Government interest should shift from deficit to economic growth, i.e. from accounting approach to economic approach. GDP growth is a legitimate and functional tool for budgetary consolidation. It is necessary to motivate the municipalities to invest part of the 400 billion crowns they have in their accounts. Yes, they do because of our government's policy, but they need to be invested to help our country's economy. The state should prepare financial instruments, any preferential loans - we finally have the National Development Bank here, and secure the administrative side - we have the State Investment Support Fund. Because the money that governments invest will return to the state's GDP growth and tax revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider adapting economic policy to the real position of the Czech Republic, which is still the eighth least indebted country of the European Union. Please think about the development, discussion and approval of austerity packages for their impact on Czech households, which are already facing record inflation, decline in real wages or extreme inaccessibility of housing. I challenge you, make a real budget for this year, return to fair reporting, reject the tricks and frauds that have become the norm in the most important of the resorts in the last year and a half. Start communicating with social partners, trade unions and associations, listen to ammunition. But also communicate with us, with the opposition, especially if you want to promote measures that go far beyond your term of office. Then you can come to the Chamber of Deputies and demand that your reform efforts be taken seriously. At this point, I am completely lacking in your legitimacy with regard to everything that has just been said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček will now speak with priority rights. President Okamura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u8	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, as we all know, no pension reform is being presented today, the parameters of the clearance for pensioners are changing. The government claims that it is changing them because it is no longer an unsustainable state, but we have to say openly that this is the situation that it has caused itself. We all know that in February of this year, the government pushed itself into force, in our view unconstitutionally, to change the valorisation to 2023. In other words, it's CZK 1,000 a month, this year it's going to be CZK 7,000, and we can record how much it's going to be in the next few years. It could be for a pensioner who will continue to live for 20, 25 years hundreds of thousands of crowns. Although, and it is important to say, in January 2023, Minister Marian Jurečka argued that nothing would change in this valorisation. What do I mean? We go from extreme to extreme and ordinary people, the more likely then maybe seniors who don't have the information as we do, who live in it every day, are no longer able to confess. In addition to this, this is the second extreme when Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura put a net zero in the budget in the autumn to valorize, although he knew safely that zero was excluded. We can talk about how much he should have put in there, but the fact that he didn't put anything in there is incomprehensible. If you argue - now I say it to the five-callice members - that it is not a short-term measure, that it is a so-called long-term unhappy state, then I will only ask logically: Why didn't it go into your election program? Why didn't you have it in your programming statement that you wanted to change the valorization? Or did you play a game with the voters that nothing will change, and eventually it will be done? Finally, if I'm not mistaken, the SPOLU has also put in its programming statement that it will base its valuation on an average wage. Well, I'll answer you. Because if you hadn't gotten yourself into this economic trap, I'm sure you wouldn't have changed any valorisation. In other words, you are only dealing with the consequences of your activity, rather I would say inaction. Since it is quite obvious that inflation is the main cause of the current situation, and the lion's share of the failure to cope with inflation is undoubtedly the government. Among other things, this government is conquering virtually everything that it has promised. Do you remember before the election? There will be no tax increases. Bang, they practically all got up. Not only before the elections, the Prime Minister said so in October last year. Do you remember the tradesmen, what was promised to them and what was increasing to them? Do you remember what was promised to the young and so on? But that's a different song. Let's stick to the inflation because that's the main cause. Why is the third highest inflation in the whole of the European Union, and it has been for several months now, cannot be a surprise to anyone if he was watching Partie on Sunday, where Prime Minister Fiala gave his view of why there is such high inflation. I am no wonder that somehow this government cannot fight it, because if no one has explained to the Prime Minister today what is causing it, it may be difficult to solve something. What did he say? Among other things, inflation is driven by the wasteful policies of the past government and the fall of Bohemia Energy. Please, I don't want to comment on Bohemia Energy, because paradoxically, it's the other way around. But that's, say, marginalia, smiling. The more important thing is another, and that's the first statement, that's the so-called wasteful policy of the past government. It's always good when someone's defending themselves, but it's even better when someone who's completely independent in that sense does. So I will read to you what the European Central Bank told you in November 2021, at a time when inflation was already clearly increasing. [[13.00 hours]] The European Central Bank then described the causes of inflation. I quote precisely: After years of very low inflation, it has now reached the highest level in November 2021 in the last 13 years. This is happening for three main reasons. Our economy is rapidly reopening, inflation is pushing up high energy prices, and thirdly, what the statists call as a result of a comparative base. I merely note that inflation in the European Union at that time was around 5% on average. The European Central Bank was absolutely right. He is the fact that virtually all countries have supported the economy. On the other hand, it must always be said that the support was supported by the fact that it went mainly to companies, whether they were businessmen or larger or medium-sized or smaller enterprises. For example, in the Czech Republic, like in other countries, the support was not very different; it may have been a little smaller in our country than it was in Germany, Austria, but it really went to support at least part of the company's ability to pay rents to cover energy, staff and so on. In other words, she didn't go straight to the households. Indirectly, but to be objective, of course, she went there by maintaining employment. Of course, by maintaining employment, we did not deprive people of the money that they naturally saved at that time in pandemics. That means, they didn't, in simple terms, have a place to spend. And now let's imagine that the economy opened up, and at that moment, de facto within a few days, if not weeks, almost all of Europe wanted to buy. That means a huge demand, people needed to buy what they couldn't buy for a long time, whether it was clothes or other consumer items. Of course, companies needed to start buying materials and so on. Even some of the necessary investments were forced to do immediately. This means that there was relatively high demand at the time - that is why it is also called demand inflation at the time - and relatively low supply. Yes, that's when the businessmen responded by, of course, going up the prices. Interesting was the behavior of central banks at the time. I generally say central banks across Europe, even in countries other than European countries where central banks held interest rates relatively low, were approaching zero. Not all to the zero, of course, but they kept it low. Among other things, because they wanted to move the economy, but in fact, the chances of starting to raise interest rates were generally missed a lot, because the banks didn't quite figure out when the covid was actually ending, when it wasn't ending, and it was too late to react. That means speculators borrowed very cheap money that went further into circulation, and we know the story. So undoubtedly the behavior of central banks, I'm not just saying, has played an important role in that. The very important factor in inflation growth - and I am still returning to what the European Central Bank said - was the disrupted supply chains. Pretty logical. That means it's gotten pretty crazy. I'm sure you remember the troubles with the fact that in the automotive industry and elsewhere, the products were missing, which, of course, when something is missing, is being reflected in prices. In November 2021, the European Central Bank said quite rightly that the next cause was the beginning of the energy crisis. Certainly one of them was the fact that resources in some countries, including Germany, nuclear resources, and fossil fuel resources were being abandoned too quickly. But, of course, there was also speculation about Russia, which played especially with Germany, through which gas actually flows to other countries, already as a cat with a mouse and the prices were up. This is the autumn of 2021. What do I really mean - but not even me - what does the European Central Bank actually say? At that time, inflation - we think after the covid, of course - could not really be prevented. But be careful, it was easy. And the different countries stood up to it in different ways. And here's the poodle core, because I had to start with this, cliché, talking about how much money was spent, and that made inflation go up. It's logical that when these people accumulate their savings and they can't buy, then, of course, they start shopping at that point, and the prices go up. We were still with the government, though not for too long, and we pulled the handbrake. Yes, we've taken quick VAT measures, we've put it at zero. I'm sure you remember that. Of course, I'm talking about electricity, gas, which no doubt helped at the time. At the same time, because our government was over, we couldn't do it anymore, we didn't have time to do it, so we suggested to the government a new one to cancel the renewables charges quickly. Maybe you remember, I suggested it here in December 2021. The new government didn't accept that anymore. It was her responsibility, her decision. A new government came, and instead of taking on the fight against inflation - I deliberately say the word "i" because it's not just in the hands of the government - so she still lived in the marketing rush of victory and the rhetoric of the election - that's Babišův's preciousness. In other words, she still believed that inflation was driven out by us, although here I tried to explain that it was all over Europe, and the European Central Bank made it quite clear, but mostly relied on the central bank. I really remember when your economic ministers used to come here and say, that's the central bank's thing, that's what Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura said. She must be in control of inflation. But that does not mean that fiscal policy and government action cannot be combated. This is about understanding what the nature of inflation is. But I'll come to that. European solutions were betting. Do you remember how your ministers used to walk here and say, in Europe, we're gonna figure this out, we're gonna get it together, we're gonna fix it, and that's where it's gonna be the central solution that's gonna help everyone? This was a waiting time for a European solution. How it turned out, we know. Our proposals were completely ignored. I'm not saying everything we said was brilliant. But that's your responsibility to finally choose which way you're going. Which of these proposals, which one or another country, but in any case since February we have said here and said it Babiš times here, that it is necessary to make a ceiling on manufacturers. We said 1,500 crowns back then. We came out of what the producer's price was when he went on the market a year and a half ago, two years ago, I mean, based on 2022. We pointed out that it is essential to cancel the payments for renewable resources. I've said it many times here. We have proposed a number of regimes and systems - I am talking about energy at this time - ceilinging. Smiles, we'll do it ourselves, we don't need your advice. Okay, so you didn't need them. You underestimated the situation completely, you started preparing your own pseudo-solving of that crazy energy-saving tariff, which also turned out the way it did, and in the meantime inflation flew up, and by then it flew at the fastest pace from all over the European Union. All summer we repeated that something had to be done. And what was your reaction? Well, remember that! Populistic measures, extremist measures and so on. So when the end of August came, the cage fell. The price was EUR 1,000 for a megawatt hour of electricity. And all of a sudden, what a few dozen hours ago was the solution from the extremist and populist camp was suddenly your solution. The problem is, of course, it was late. You switched it from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the Office of the Government, you put a team there in a hurry. Who was on that team, we all know. We also know what energy companies were doing there. But the fact is, he invented and put together some kind of model, some kind of ceiling mechanism, which, however set from our point of view, was high, but most importantly it was late. And what happened was logically to be expected. Because it didn't really start to apply until 2023. So all year 2022, when there were high energy prices, it was either ignored or postponed, or it was preparing - that is, at least, the conclusion of that year - to implement it from 2023. And we all know what happened after that. Luckily, in 2023, it started to turn in the opposite direction, which means the prices started to fall, which means, really, the ceiling, if it had any effect, maybe a month, maybe two, but it wasn't much longer. So at the time it was supposed to be and when it was supposed to happen, because it's regulation, to be ceilinged, and you've been refusing to regulate all the time, so regulation has to come quickly and it has to be short-term, that's the point of regulation. Your regulation was late, you put it on for a relatively long time, all year 2023, which is quite obvious that it will not be used. But we all know the result. [[13.10 hours]] By finally sewing a hot needle, it hasn't touched practically at all in 2022, I mean in energy prices, and in 2022 we had - someone claims the highest increase in energy prices in the European Union, you defend yourself and claim that the statistical authorities do not work with relevant data. In any case, if I were very supportive of you, it was one of the highest increases in energy prices in the European Union. And we are far from just looking at Eurostat. Now, if we look at the Austrian so-called happy coefficient, in the first five months of 2023 every month, it's based here on Prague, every month was the highest price of electricity converted into purchasing power, with one exception, one month, I don't know which, we were in the second worst place. So it's quite obvious that this hasn't been adjusted. And we can talk about the fact that we produce electricity here, that we produce it relatively cheaply, that we have surpluses and so on. Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this because fighting inflation means we have to understand what her character is. And in the fall of 2021, yes, it was driven primarily by demand. For the reasons I have said here, and for the reasons I repeat, the European Central Bank has correctly identified. However, a breakthrough occurred at a time when energy prices had already become the main cause, which means that they were still amplified by some degree of uncertainty associated with war and, of course, with price developments in the European market, with gas. Of course, companies had increased their costs, which they immediately started projecting into prices. In part, some uncertainty of businesses played a role in this because they did not see how it would develop. But in any case, at this point in time, demand inflation has already shifted into cost inflation, so costs have mainly been drawn, and they have increased by tens of percent. Back then, a member of Rusnok's Council of the Czech National Bank warned against raising interest rates and from my point of view one of the most experienced central bankers in the Czech Republic, Oldřich Dědek. You know what he said in January 2022? A member of Rusnok's central bank council? "I am convinced that at present" - or since January 2022 - monetary policy cannot be approached in the style of the more inflation goes up, the more interest rates have to go up. If brutal cost pressures are the source of inflation, monetary policy will not do anything about this price movement, it will not lower energy, it will not lower oil, iron and so on, only create additional additional pressures for businesses." I deliberately don't say what we said. We said something similar, and you immediately attack us that we're from a populist camp again. That's what Oldřich Dědek says. What did I mean by that? I strongly support the government's failure to combat inflation. She denied herself. Two years ago, she said it was Babišův's price. But we're measures, despite the fact that it wasn't any of our precious things, but that it was the result of the covid time, which everyone who graduated from at least a few weeks of high school economics has to know, so we've taken the measures. You can criticize us for the measures we took, but our measures took place at that time. You had the opportunity to take other measures. You didn't want to do it with the VAT? Okay, so you should have done something else. Why didn't you regulate immediately? Why didn't you watch others do it? You can't deny that when inflation at the end of 2021 was at 5.4 percent in the Czech Republic and in the European Union it was an average of 5.3 percent - among other things I say again, it was also due to the rapid regulation that we therefore withdrew the VAT - so there was double inflation in the Czech Republic in a few months. Double. And she's still holding on. That means, when it was 9 percent in Europe, it was 18 percent in our country, and now it's still about double. We can see the scissors are opening, we can see we're missing it. Then let's accept the responsibility. So let's go back to the question that I've already said here, the change in the valorization, that's actually what the minister is coming up with today, if the change in the valorisation weren't high inflation. And so again, if you did, you're saying you would have done it anyway, why didn't you say so in time? Why didn't you put it in the program statement? Why didn't you make a commitment before the election, before your constituents, to change the mechanism? Why didn't you tell them you were gonna download it, that it was gonna go down? That would be fair. And then I'd take that argument of yours. We made it clear before the election that we would do it, that we would reduce it, that it was unsustainable. But you didn't say anything like that. There was no such thing. Or you deliberately denied it, I don't know. You can say, well, the situation has changed, it's war, it's crisis. Okay, so why didn't you say so at least in the fall? If you're saying that the situation changed fundamentally last year, then why didn't you come up with all this change in the fall? Or did they play a part in the presidential election? The presidential candidate, Mrs Danuše Nerudová, said in her ingenuity this week that the valorisation was late because the elections would be affected. I say infamous, but she's right. That's just a fact. So my opinion, my unwavering, esteemed colleagues, is that if it weren't for inflation this high, it wouldn't be the change you're proposing. And that's actually what bothers me the most about it is that you're playing the ant and the scapegoats, who, unlike us, are doing the unpopular measures, but the fact is, if you hadn't completely screwed up last year, there's nothing going on at all today. So there's a mistake in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. The President of Okamura will now take the floor with priority, and the President of Babiš will prepare himself. Before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. He apologizes to Michálek Jakub from 13:00 to 14:00 for personal reasons, Opltová Michaela the whole meeting day foreign travel and Šafránková Lucie from 12:30 to 16:00 for health reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, at today's Fialův government called an emergency meeting, the government wants to enforce laws that will bring the elderly to poverty. The SPD movement fundamentally rejects the government's proposed increase in retirement age, and we fundamentally reject the reduction in pension valorisation. On behalf of the SPD, I will submit a motion to reject this government bill at first reading. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act is not a pension reform that the Fialův Government has falsely promised. It is just a series of parametric adjustments to reduce pension growth and damage both current and future pensioners. Last year, most of the Čech were poor because of the incompetent Fialův government. Real wages fell by 7.5 percent last year, and now the government has decided to rob pensioners for the second time this year. The government's reduction of valorisation must be placed in the overall context of government measures and the state of our economy. A package of government robberies, among other things, means a further increase in the cost of living for pensioners. Purple's government's medications will go up by increasing VAT from 10 to 12 percent. In addition, some medicines move into the prescription box. This, on the one hand, will increase the pressure on doctors, and, of course, even these medicines will not be free. They're paid by health insurance companies, but the government keeps taking money from them. Moreover, the government is going to steal again another CZK 14 billion from the state insurance money next year, i.e. from the money that citizens have honestly taken out in the framework of health insurance. Health insurance companies, and thus health care, will logically miss that. What happens when the insurance companies don't have enough money to pay the paramedics? Some of the ministers of the Fialův Government have sent signals: they want to introduce regulatory charges in hospitals. Nothing new under the sun, it's been done. Although hospitals didn't save their fees somehow, tens of thousands of people were brought into executions. [[13.20 hours]] I remember we used to deal with a retirement case that, out of the blue, was seized by an executor of over 100,000 in his account. He had the 100,000 there, for your information, as a war settlement because he was imprisoned as a Romani child in Auschwitz. Then it was found that the debt arose by having a heart attack, being taken to a hospital with no money, with nothing, not paying some 30 crowns. She later sold the hospital's fees to a loan shark company that took its interest, hired the bailiffs, and when people's debts grew, she went on a rampage and shredded people for money. I will remind you that hospitals, which subsequently sold out their fees to loan sharks and debt traders, were, according to the media, several. This is just what the Fialův Retirement Retirement Retirement is waiting for: smaller pensions and, at the same time, fees where it can be done. According to the Fialův government, pensioners who now live in their own and do not pay excessive rents need to be settled. That's what the Fialův government suggests. And so the government doubles their property tax. Punishing those who have saved and paid from their own housing is really very right-wing and pro-family in quotation marks. I mean that ironically, of course. Of course, what the Fialův Government is proposing here is against all working and decent people. By increasing VAT, the government will increase the price of water, sewerage, food, heat and transport. Indeed, the price increase is a demonstration of the fight against inflation in quotation marks. Someone in quotes excuses the government for not being the only expert in government. The only economist isn't there. But don't be mad at me, even a special school graduate will understand that when a government keeps high energy prices and raises other prices of almost everything, the prices will just be higher and higher, and we call that a foreign word for inflation, and that inflation is also going to steal life savings from the pensioners, who are now going to deliberately rob the Fialův's five-calice. While we may still be making money, old people are losing everything they've earned in their lives to the harmful and incompetent Fialův government right now. The real disgust by the government is that, in the case of most pensioners, those who have worked their entire lives have savings, and you are depreciating their savings, while those who have been on welfare their entire lives are laughing. In fact, the so-called inadaptables have nothing, and they won't lose anything. And you want to increase their welfare. Here I would just add that it was Fialův's government five-wheeler last year that rejected here in the House that the SPD bill to end the abuse of social benefits inadaptable. And for the SPD, of course, we will continue to fight for all decent and working citizens. As I have already said, what the government is presenting is not a pension reform. The government is simply concerned with reducing pensions and tightening the conditions for early retirement. Fialův's five-coal government wants to reduce the pace of proper pension valorizations, and they want to cancel the extraordinary ones. This will, of course, damage all pensioners and the most low-income pensioners. The tightening of the conditions for early retirement will, in turn, unduly and strongly intervene and harm citizens who have worked hard their entire lives since, say, 18 years of age in heavy professions and have broken health. The proposal by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka of KDU-ČSL reduces the scope of proper valuation of pensions from the current percentage of the corresponding half of the growth of real wages to a third of this growth and cancels extraordinary valorisation. The current exceptional remuneration of pensions in the case of inflation growth above 5% in the reference period is intended to replace some temporary social contribution, called pension allowance, paid only for a limited period of a few months until the next proper increase in pensions. Moreover, this contribution would not, according to the proposal of the Fialův Government, become a permanent and fixed part of the pension notice, contrary to the current extraordinary valuation. This is fundamentally rejected by the SPD, as this antisocial change would irreversibly damage the vast majority of pension recipients and would lead to the fall of up to tens of thousands of them into so-called income poverty. And that's unacceptable to us. At the same time, it needs to be stressed that the government wants to abolish proper valorisation and that instead it wants to introduce some kind of encore, the social contribution temporary, so the Fialův government here will rob the pensioners twice, because, as I said, the contribution is not meant to become a permanent and solid part of the pension notice, unlike the current extraordinary valuation. That means, of course, that's going to lower the other valorizations. So in a very sophisticated, stupid way, or in a transparent way, the Fialův government will actually rob the pensioners hard twice, or three times, because you've already robbed them of the valorisation of pensions they were supposed to receive since June, on average by CZK 1,000, you've reduced all the pensioners the valorization with which they've all counted and were entitled by law. Now, you're putting on another reduction in valorisation here, and you're not gonna count on that social contribution that you want to pay off once in a while, so it doesn't even count on the base for that future valorization. That means, yes, it's a three-fold rip-off by the Fialův Government and, at the same time, the ripping-off of all future pensioners, basically all citizens. And, of course, the SPD fundamentally disagrees with that. These government measures would bring about a marked deterioration in the income and existential situation of all pensioners and the most low-income and medium-income ones. And the ultimate paradox is that there could be very real situations where pensions of all their beneficiaries on 1 January of a certain year after the withdrawal of the temporary contribution replacing the exceptional valuation could even be reduced. And let us add that because the government of Petr Fiala absolutely cannot cope with the fight against inflation, real wages of Czech employees have been falling for the second year, which is a European unique, so the proper January pension valorization will be lower than usual just because wage growth cannot and will not be taken into account, because there is none. Here I would like to point out another fact that according to Eurostat's European Statistical Office, the Czech Republic has the third highest inflation in Europe at all. Because of the Fialův Government, the Czech Republic is only one of three countries in Europe that do not have economic growth back at the level of the pre-covid crisis. So, objectively, the Fialův government is one of the worst in Europe ever. It is basically the most incompetent government in Europe. And, as we have seen on the ranking of the renowned international analytic company Morning Consult, Prime Minister Fiala is even in the international ranking in the survey of trust among the leaders of individual world democratic countries, either where the president is, so the president, where the prime figure is political, where the prime minister is, so the prime minister, so that compared to all the leaders of democratic countries, he is even on the last list. [[13.30 hours]] He's even the worst prime minister in the world. And this is based on a survey among the citizens of the individual countries, and this American analytic society has been doing this ranking for a long time. So the Czech Republic has the worst premiere in the world ever, with the lowest confidence, quite objectively, everyone can look at the rankings, it was also a mainstream, it was also on the List, it was also on the Nova website and other media. So we have the worst president ever, as far as the trust of citizens from all the democratic countries of the world is concerned, and that is indeed an international disgrace. [[Prime Minister]] What Petr Fiala is doing, holding like a tick in power, Petr Fiala, Chairman of the ODS, he is the worst of the worst and is simply dragging the Czech Republic down and taking hostage all 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic! That means, really, the situation is extremely serious. And the fact that you're about to rob all the pension recipients because Prime Minister Fiala is the worst in the world, and he's a completely incompetent and most incompetent prime minister in the world, which we can see from the current ranking of the American analytical company Morning Consult, that's just an objective fact. So he should put it down if he's all right. He should put it down and walk away and leave it to another, capable one. And, of course, I'm being honest with you that the SPD is supposed to be in government. We want to replace Fialův's five-calice government. The SPD wants to be in government, we are competent to rule, and we are ready to replace you. But you guys are sticking around like ticks, and that's just the problem. Of course, there is absolutely no reason for you to take pensioners as hostages and to steal from them further and further, because when I look at it that way, the hard data, the Fialův government chose because of the double-digit inflation that the Fialův government itself caused by its incompetence, and I have already said that it is a completely incompetent government in comparison with the whole of Europe, so because of your double-digit inflation, you have already chosen more than CZK 200 billion in taxes. So you have chosen over 200 billion and, according to Eurostat, the Czech Republic has the highest rate of debt even from all countries of the European Union! Those are incredible numbers! That's for immediate resignation, and a long time ago. It's incredible what your government is doing. The debts after your government will be paid not only by our children, but by our children's children, because the public probably doesn't know it, the journalists know it, but they don't want to write it, many of them, that you take on debt, you already owe on debt to the Czech Republic, you take on loans from the European Development Bank and so on, which is the EU bank, but there the maturity is up to 2057 I suspect how much credit, but it is due for more than 30 years where you owe the Czech Republic! Head not completely, government five-calice ODS, Pirates, TOP 09, STAN and KDU-ČSL. So you are doing everything on debt and indebting the Czech Republic to many decades in advance. So really with your government, if it goes on like this, the Czech Republic is threatened with bankruptcy and a Greek scenario. You're gonna burn the ground, and you're in the government for a year and a half! That's crazy! So there really isn't a single reason why you should be stealing from senior citizens, because if there was any government other than yours, it wouldn't happen at all, it would be such a crappy situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the government desks, why are you unable to fight the causes of inflation, the public budget deficit, the high energy prices, food and housing, replacing the fight against the elderly and making their living and existential levels worse? Aren't you ashamed? I'll just add that lower inflation is equal to, among other things, the lower cost of valorizing pensions, but in your case, maybe it's just the famous throwing of peas on the wall when we tell you. We in the SPD demand that the form of proper valuations should not be changed and that the Institute of Exceptional Pensions Valorisation should be preserved and that inflation in the so-called retirement consumer basket should always increase fully, because, of course, the retirement consumer basket is different from the consumer basket of a working-age citizen, because, of course, medicines, more drugs, and so on are being added to the pensioners. And we want, under the SPD, to make it clear that the increase in pensions in the form of extraordinary valuation remains permanent in relation to the amount of pension. And once again, let me make it clear to the President that we will make a motion to reject this government bill that you want to rob a pensioner, and we will make a motion to reject it at first reading. With pensions, we are willing to negotiate as much as possible their possible future change, which would set their mechanism as fairly as possible, so as not to harm low-income pensioners, which is undoubtedly happening now, and even government officials admit it. I've been talking about this since I joined the House. That is why we have long been proposing that it should be increased as much as possible in terms of the rate of inflation and real wages growth by the same amount, calculated, for example, from the current average pension, the basic component of pensions, which is uniform for all its beneficiaries, while maintaining a certain degree of merit. Let's talk about that. As for the government's proposal to tighten the conditions for early retirement, it is unthinkable for us to support it in the submitted form. In particular, because the possibility of early retirement makes it difficult for the government to do too much and completely inappropriately, making it practically untapped for large groups of citizens in the future. The period of early retirement is reduced from the current five years to three years before entitlement to a full pension. At the same time, the period of social insurance is extended for this entitlement from 35 to 40 years, which practically makes it impossible for students to retire early. Furthermore, the government significantly tightens the coefficient of reducing and penalising early retirement against proper pension, and it is also proposed, or the government proposes, respectively, Fialův's five-calice government suggests, forcefully chop off the valorisation of early pensions against the proper ones, so that only their much lower basic component is valued, but the higher, percentage and merit, not. That's pure discrimination! In addition, let us add that citizens receiving early retirement are at a disadvantage from those who receive a pension properly, even if they are not allowed to earn an early pension, so they are being punished more than enough now, and there is no reason to punish them even more and to drive after them. [[13.40 hours]] In general, in the SPD regarding the adjustment of early pensions, we recognise the need to set the conditions for their drawdown, their setting and their amount so that the early pension is not more favourable than the regular pension, which has now sometimes occurred in the years of high inflation. Not because of the pension seekers. But the government's proposal goes much further than necessary in this regard. And let us also note that citizens do not go into early retirement in the vast majority of cases because they no longer want to work and are looking forward to a time when their income falls by more than half. On the contrary, the reason for this is that they can no longer work or lose their jobs for health reasons, and they cannot find a new one, especially in some regions, because people in the pre-retirement age are in the most difficult position, according to a number of analyses on the labour market. Or they are asking for early retirement, especially recently, because they are rightly concerned about the social changes in the pension system by the current government coalition and want to save what is still possible and at least have some certainty in their life situation and in their old age. On the subject of early pensions and the alleged need for substantial changes in their adjustment in terms of budgetary impacts, I will add one more comment from the spokesman of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of April this year. And it may be the magic of an unwanted argument not in support of government procedure, but an argument in favour of the SPD's approach to this issue. According to this statement by the spokesman of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it is a statement from the Ministry, i.e. - I quote what the Ministry said: "The persistent reduction and reduction of pensions for early retirees" - I will just add that, in its present form - "covers the costs that these pensioners represent for the state. For example, in February 2023 a total of 684 000 old-age pensions were paid, which were permanently reduced because they were granted before retirement age.' I continue to quote the Ministry's spokesman: "From the point of view of the impact on budget expenditure, those who have retired early and have not yet reached retirement age represent an additional cost of CZK 800 million a month. On the other hand, for those who have already reached retirement age, early retirement costs are lower than if they had left when they reached retirement age. This savings are approximately twice as high as the pension costs paid before retirement age and compensates for potential lost social security contributions which would otherwise have been paid by early retirement persons until retirement age if they had not gone into early retirement.' End of the citation of the spokesman of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from April this year. This is therefore a clear admission that early pensions, even at a time when they are asked for by a highly above-average number of people compared to previous years, do not pose any problem for our state in terms of budgetary balance. On the contrary, the state will, in the long run, save the government, and the state itself will admit it. So there is absolutely no need for change, and it is just one of the mosaics of government action against a lifetime of honest working citizens. The same is true of the government's intention to reduce future pension valorisations. This is unacceptable to the SPD in principle, socially and in value. The fair adjustment of proper and exceptional valuations is one of the basic features of the nature of the ongoing pension system, whose long-term adjustment and non-changing form of its key parameters are also a form of social contract. Any departure from the rules in force in the pension area, which takes the form of robbing pensioners, then undermines citizens' confidence in the pension system as such, and thus also its motivational role, including the willingness of citizens to pay pension insurance. And this is the phenomenon that we are witnessing on the air by the Fialův Government. This is precisely what threatens the stability of our pension system most, and it affects both its economic efficiency and the very foundations of natural social and intergenerational belonging. When we talk about government proposals for changes in the pension system, i.e. in translation of government plans for a significant and permanent reduction, and thus of plans for a permanent reduction of pensions, which the government is planning to deepen in the new pensions since 2026 by making their future calculation more disadvantageous than the current one, we must also say very loudly that the pension is not a social benefit, let alone a minor from the state. On the contrary, it is a premium of its kind, which its recipients have worked very hard in decades and paid for it. And no government, not even the current one, has the right to change its conditions during the game and reduce this performance and improve at the expense of pensioners a catastrophic budget deficit and government debt that is not caused by pensioners, but mostly by the dilettantism of the Fialův government. Dear colleagues, the prognosis of the development and sustainability of our pension system must be a fundamental issue of political debate today, but of professional, factual and fair debate, where we will deal with issues and problems of real importance, and the government must mainly tell the truth to itself and, above all, to citizens. Our pension system will be exposed to the greatest burden from around 2035 to 2055 when the share of people over the age of 65 will increase from around 2 million to 3 million people, i.e. at a rate of 100,000 new pensioners per year. Then, in terms of stability of the ongoing system of the situation, however, it will start to improve significantly, even with sustained demographic developments that are not ideal, and we in the SPD seek to change it through an effective pro-family policy. This, too, must be said in the debates on the Czech pension system and its possible changes, not to scare citizens by not being on pensions, being condemned to a permanent deepening of the pension account deficit, and that we will all inevitably become poorer. It's not true. It is also a complete resignation of the Fialův Government to any active economic, economic, fiscal and budgetary policy and responsibility. We are not even doomed to the only possible solution in the submission of the politicians of the government coalition raising the age limit for entitlement to retirement. It's not like that. Arbitrary and forced extension of retirement periods according to many economists and experts on pension issues not only solves nothing, but also effectively eliminates the possibility of gradually introducing a system of effective motivation for extending the period of another voluntary, with emphasis on this word, the profitable employment of seniors, which is economically more advantageous from the point of view of increasing the revenues of the state budget through the selection of pension insurance by way of order far more favourable than the mechanical increase in retirement age so-called from the table. Professionally, support for voluntary work at a retirement age is called a graduate bonus, and we would implement it, for example, by forgiving the volunteer seniors income tax and significantly increasing the coefficient that will increase their pensions every year. [[13.50 hours]] After all, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs himself Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL in an interview for the server money. cz said last April - I quote: "I would not go this way, by increasing the age of retirement. I understand that life expectancy is increasing, but on the other hand, we have to figure out what the quality of life is at an older age. I want to go the way of motivation, tell people that if they're physically and mentally capable of doing it, they can continue volunteering at retirement age. But I don't think you can say that on a flat-rate basis to everyone in all professions. When a person is worn out throughout an adult's life at work, there is also a risk for people who depend on his work. Therefore, I do not want to increase retirement age on a flat-rate basis." End of quote of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from April last year. Well, what is the reality of Minister Jurečka's submission? How is his words different from his actions? The year he met with the year, and Minister Jurečka either radically changed his mind, which is unlikely during such a short period of time and at an adult age, or even then deliberately lied. They're both pretty rusty with a high-level constitutional officer. And unfortunately, it is a phenomenon that has recently been affecting more members of the government and its prime minister. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk in the SPD about the reform of the pension system, we do not mean a total change in its architecture from an ongoing system to a fund-based, that is, mandatory pension savings in private pension funds. On the contrary, we clearly reject this. We are referring to tax and social policy reform, which will, in the long term, significantly support birth rates in working families and consequently lead to a significant increase in the standard of living of these working families and provide them with all the services to avoid being afraid of having three or more children. We are therefore also talking about housing policy, about ensuring sufficient capacity in schools and kindergartens, about creating conditions for the smooth return of parents caring for the smallest children after parental leave to work, about part-time jobs. And as far as housing policy is concerned, we're talking about SPD proposals... or SPD proposals, as you know, he's proposing, he has major proposals to improve housing availability. On the contrary, as we know, the Fialův government is making housing accessible, including families with children, worse. Which is trivial from the point of view that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is Marian Jurečka, President of the KDU-ČSL, who, only verbally of course, spoke about support for families, yet precisely in the proposal that KDU-ČSL and the Minister have presented here, they have actually cut off support for working families with children and have made their lives more expensive. Reduction of discounts on working husband, wife, cancellation of kindergarten. It's totally unbelievable! Normally, you cut off, your entire government headed by KDU-ČSL, you just cut off working families with children. Normally, you double-crossed their legs live. That's really unbelievable and, of course, the SPD can't agree with that at all. So what I'm talking about here... what I'm talking about here, the reform proposed by the SPD, that would be the necessary reform, which in the long run will lead to a sufficient number of pension payers who will finance the pensions of future seniors and disabled without increasing compulsory insurance contributions or taxes. We can see that the ongoing pension system can work very well without problems and deficits, among other things, on the example of the neighbouring Austria. For example, it is written by Professor Valenčík and other experts. The ongoing pension system and its account are long-term balanced in Austria and burden those who contribute to it significantly less than in our country. Payouts are, on the contrary, a percentage higher in relation to insurance contributions than in our country. And he retires at the age of 65, and he doesn't consider raising that line. Rakušan who retire voluntarily later than their legal retirement age of 65 can look forward to a significantly higher pension than those who retire as a standard. At work one year after the age of 65, their pension will increase by 4.2 %. That's a good motivation and a good way to go. The amount of the pension in Austria depends on previous earnings and the number of years of insurance obtained. At present, income over the past 20 years has been assessed, while higher income means higher state income. The minimum guaranteed monthly pension in Austria is EUR 749, i.e. CZK 18,000 per month, for individuals, or EUR 1,120, i.e. CZK 27,000, for married couples. By the way, I would like to point out here that the draft law on the minimum dignified pension at the minimum wage limit has been submitted by the SPD here. We have presented it, it is presented here in the House, because many of these developed countries are legally guaranteed a minimum decent pension from their citizens by law. Because for the pensions that the Fialův government is doing here, that's 10,000, 12,000, 13,000 pensions, and you just can't live for them. You can't live for them. That is why the SPD, following the model of western countries, those developed countries, proposes the establishment of a minimum dignified pension at the threshold of minimum wage. But we can discuss the line. But you can see that even us - from the example of neighbouring Austria, there is a minimum guaranteed monthly pension for those working citizens or for those citizens who have fulfilled the conditions for entitlement to pension, so of course there is. In addition, the pension is paid 14 times a year in Austria. In addition, there is a much smaller reduction in pension calculation than in the Czech Republic, and the ceiling for calculating old-age pension is also relatively high. So the Austrian pension system is even more meritful than the Czech and takes more account of previous working incomes of seniors. As regards the net pension ratio to the net wage achieved before retirement, Austria is at 90 per cent. Wouldn't it be worth a comparative analysis of our and Austrian pension systems to reveal what the problem is with us? Instead of government experiments that will irreversibly damage current and future pensioners? But apparently, neither is this analysis and the incorporation of good models from advanced abroad, nor is the Fialův government capable of that. The Fialův government has completely resigned from working for its country, resigned from helping old and vulnerable people, Czech citizens, working and decent people. Instead, Fialův's five-calice government focuses only on how to draw maximum money from the Czech Republic on American weapons and for Ukraine and Ukrainians. At the same time, the Fialův government is throwing this country into economic collapse. And not only by simply not being competent to rule, but also by accession to crazy green and Brussels ideas. The management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is in complete disintegration. The ongoing state budget deficit for 2023 reached a record historical amount of CZK 271 billion at the end of May, with a total state budget deficit of CZK 295 billion this year. And yet this deficit is already completely astronomical and unprecedented. It is therefore obvious that the management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is in complete disintegration and that the very estimate of budget revenues and expenditure has already been made in complete conflict with reality. This is the political responsibility of Prime Minister Petr Fiala from the ODS and completely incompetent Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS, who should resign immediately. [[14.00 hours]] But apparently Minister Stanjura doesn't want to resign. And apparently Prime Minister Petr Fiala doesn't want to call him off either. And we know why. It's an ODS problem. Because it is Zbyněk Stanjura who is one of several key people in ODS who has just held Petr Fiala in the chair of ODS Chairman and Prime Minister's chair from the beginning. So that's actually true, actually Petr Fiala with his incompetence and inability to actually make order, so actually all 10 million people in the Czech Republic find themselves basically in pliers, because Prime Minister Fiala Zbyněk doesn't want to call off Stanjura because he would betray a chair to himself. And Zbyněk Stanjura himself doesn't want to leave because he wants to stick there like a tick, even though he can't handle it. So I'd like to make a suggestion to Prime Minister Fial. Perhaps he should agree with Minister Stanjura that he will be offered by another smuggler. For example, an optional place for the European Parliament, because otherwise Zbyněk Stanjura clearly will not leave and will continue to destroy this country. Because without offering him a newsstand, that's how it's done at the ODS, but also at the people's and so on, so Zbyněk Stanjura doesn't leave. It's obvious. That's why I wanted to advise the Prime Minister. He obviously doesn't know what to do, and he's clueless. Holt's gonna have to make some kind of deal, 'cause... I'm talking about one thing. I don't want to advise the ODS on what to do, but I want them to stop hurting this country because it's so unprecedented that this incompetent minister isn't the only economist in the government, this incompetent finance minister that he can still sit there. That's completely insane. You're ruining this country, bankrupting it. So I wanted to call on Prime Minister Petr Fiala to agree, if he's such a weak and incompetent prime minister, so he should sort of make a deal with Minister Stanjura to leave and be replaced. Well, it's kind of my idea, but he's gotta set it up himself. I'm not gonna be here on the inside saying what to do. I think everyone has enough work in their own parties and movements, and of course I admit that we all have different problems there, we can have. Sometimes yeah, sometimes no, so there are thousands of us on those sides, so I say it again, I say it again as it is, and I try to be fair in this. But here's the problem that you're in government, which means, unfortunately, your incompetence is due to everyone, including the SPD voters. And that's the trouble, that's the problem. So if Prime Minister Fiala doesn't want to resign himself, at least replace the most incompetent who's causing these problems with incompetence. Since the government has completely ignored the disastrous development of the state budget implementation and has done nothing against it and has not done anything about it. It merely relies on the tax collection of extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, which will again be significantly lower than the budget assumption, and you continue to rely on the dividend from CEZ's parastate company. This, however, cannot be saved by a drastic deepening budget deficit. The astronomical deficit is mainly affected by the dilettantly set and overvalued compensation for energy traders in connection with energy price ceilings. In the last 12 months, the wholesale price of electricity has fallen by 900 euros per megawatt hour, so there is no reason for any compensation. On the contrary, price ceilings must be reduced for Czech households and companies. The volume of subsidies paid to other private business entities and expenditure on government debt management has also increased dramatically. However, tax collection increased significantly compared to last year, by a total of 50 billion. For personal income tax by 26,7 per cent and for corporate tax by 21 per cent, i.e. significantly above current inflation growth. The problem is therefore clearly on the side of budgetary expenditure. However, the government is not planning a real and rapid investigation at all, including the investigation of expenditure on its operation and the operation of state bureaucracy. The so-called consolidation package contains only vague and difficult to make cuts for the years 2024 and 2025. Fast and radical steps are needed. It is necessary to stop any remaining government expenditure of the type of overpriced foreign arms contracts worth tens of billions of crowns. Of course, the most sensible solution that could save the dramatic budgetary situation is the immediate departure of Petr Fiala's harmful five-police government. As I was saying, here... Yeah, I would also like to point out that, of course, I have already said that the SPD is completely rejecting this government material in its submitted form, and we are going to put forward our own amendments to it, which provide a dignified pension. Of course, it should also be stressed that the Fialův Government is managing the worst deficit in the history of the Czech Republic because of its incompetence and leads the Republic to bankruptcy. I've already stressed that. As has already been said in public several times, in five months the Fialův government has essentially exhausted 92 percent of the planned deficit. This is even the worst state budget deficit in the modern history of the Czech Republic at all. It is therefore clear that the budget for this year is completely unrealistic, which the SPD pointed out from the very beginning of its discussions in the House. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS presented a so-called consolidation package of CZK 94 billion at the theatrical press conference. But after a week, it comes with another consolidation package for savings of another CZK 20 billion. It's just such a mess in the government! I'd like to call it a brothel, of course. I think that's an appropriate word. Because it's unprecedented. This is a completely unprecedented situation. Because 10 billion there, 20 billion there, here and there, here and there. They don't know what they're saying. The Prime Minister doesn't know what he's saying. A few weeks ago, he says the government won't raise taxes, then you'll increase VAT, you'll increase all taxes, all kinds of taxes. It's just such a mess I've never had in my life in politics. Okay. I have not been in politics as long as Mr Stanjura, as Prime Minister Fiala, as Mr Benda and others. I haven't been in politics as long as they have, but I've been here for a year, and I've never seen that. Although we don't have to agree with each other on a program basis, but such chaos in running the state, such management, I haven't experienced that once, I must say. So it's really incredible from the point of view that I'm a long-time member of the management of a huge multinational travel agency where managers from all over the world are. Well, that would be... If such a man came among us, as Prime Minister Petr Fiala or Zbyněk Stanjura, he'd be fired within a month. An immediate firing maybe during some probationary period, because it's absolutely unbelievable. In what way... They'd come, they'd just bring the corporation down, normally instantly. It's absolutely incredible what the Fialův government is doing here live. But here's the problem, we're all hostages. Unfortunately, my family, as I said, is also the hostages of this government of yours. I don't want to pay for it, I don't want my son here to just pay off debts after this incompetent government of yours. I want people to have decent pensions, to have decent salaries here. And this is what the SPD is really strongly and repeatedly opposed to. That's an incredible thing the Fialův government is doing here! [[14.10 hours]] Furthermore, of course, in what you lost after a week, you propose, for example, a reduction in civil servants' salary rates by 5% or a delay in the planned valorisation of payments for state insured persons, which also caused a legitimate strike alert for health care workers, because of course there is a risk that you would take 14 billion health insurance companies this year, now you want to take another 14 billion, and what will the result be? I know how it is. I know what the outcome will be, because we've already been here by the ODS government, TOP 09, we've been here before, Mr. Kalousek and Mr. Nečas. Because you're going to say that next year - there's no money in health care and pay for everything, you're going to tell the citizens. After all, you've even started to talk about it, that you want to introduce regulatory fees in hospitals. So you are going hard to pay for health care so that citizens and pensioners and low-income groups pay for health care fully. And I'm saying it fully, I didn't just say I was just saying it like that, a word full. I will recall the words of the Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the General Health Insurance Corporation, appointed by the Fialův Government and the Fialův Members of the Government of the Five-Calice, Miroslav Kalousek, who said it last year, directly in the media, that they think that people should fully pay for dental care. I'll pay you fully. So, nowadays, many decent and working citizens at the Purple's expensive cost don't even have enough to make a new tooth or new teeth, they don't even have enough for implants, they don't even have enough for basic service, and now they have a representative, a prominent representative of the Purple's five-caliber government, publicly telling citizens to pay for everything at the dentist's. And it's not even obvious... At all, you live really out of reality, because in many regions dentists are not available to citizens at all. For example, I am an elected Member for the Moravian-Silesian Region, and not only there, in border areas, dentists are scarce. Not to mention the dentists who have an insurance contract. So you guys have caused this situation here, which the SPD has been pointing out from the opposition for many years, and now you're telling people hard enough to pay for it. And again, you want to take money from the health department so you can just tell people in a few months, there's no money, you're gonna pay more and more. Or, best of all, in the opinion of the Fialův Government, obviously. These are completely unacceptable things for us. So, of course, we do not agree with this, with these proposals from the Fialův Government, and of course we will strongly protest against it. After all, this is why I've been talking a long time, because we've announced that, of course, we're going to explain it to you here long enough, that what you're doing and how you're going to rob all the citizens of the Czech Republic again, that it's wrong. Here I would perhaps just remind you that it would be repeated, that it was the members of the Fialův Government's five-calice, and you were here this year declaring an increase in the salaries of politicians. Members of Fialův's five-caliber government have voted to raise politicians' salaries this year. The SPD voted against. On the contrary, there was a vote on my proposal for the SPD, when we wanted to freeze the salaries of politicians for the entire parliamentary term, but you rejected it, my proposal, and you voted for an increase in the salaries of politicians. That's really spit in the face of all the citizens. That means you take the elderly, you take the families with the children, you take all the citizens that you raise VAT, you take all the citizens, you have already increased the excise duty on fuel last month, of course the SPD was against it, but you have raised your own salaries. This is truly incredible cynicism, the incredible arrogance of power by the Fialův government five-calice, which is ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. And as I said before, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala is, according to a survey by the renowned international analytic company Morning Consult, the most untrustworthy prime minister or president in the world from all democratic countries. The Czech Republic is therefore led by the proven worst prime minister in the world. It's a record that Mr. Fiala, as a Czech politician, has probably beaten both Biľak and Jakeš. It is indeed an international disgrace that the Fialův government is doing to us, and a total failure not only to Prime Minister Fiala, but to the entire government's five-calice. Indeed, our country and our citizens do not deserve this. It would seem that it could no longer be worse, but this government, both opposition and its own voters, is preparing new heavy blows below the belt, new disappointments, new liquidation measures - not only against old people, but also against companies, families, all people, and against our entire country. It's hard to tell what it's about whether the pirát are pouring something strong into the coffee of their colleagues in the government, or Brusel and Washington are pouring something even stronger and more ringing. In any case, this government of national destruction should end immediately and pass on the country more competent. And more competent in this case is virtually everyone who has at least some sanity left in his head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Discussions are being held on the draft agenda. After the chairman of the SPD, Mr. President of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš is here with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, fellow Members, fellow citizens, I am very pleased to be able to speak here because I did not have the opportunity to say everything I have to say on Sunday. Today we are discussing another government proposal to take money from the elderly. The main problem that we have here in the media space, a hundred times repeated, is the untruths and lies that the Prime Minister and the government repeat over and over again. I wasn't thinking about doing it until yesterday, and I think... and I hope everyone finally gets it. I met the kids from primary school here, there's the kids... [[It's pointing left at the public gallery.]] Hey... And when I ask the kids if 42 percent is less than 44.4, they say yes. On Sunday, the Prime Minister showed the same graph, only he showed it since 2020. [[It shows large-format material.]] And unfortunately, I didn't think of it before, or I would have shown it on Sunday. And the main lie is that we're in danger of bankrupting our finances. The Prime Minister says if we don't do something, there's a risk of bankruptcy. So here we have 2008 to 2013, and I repeat again, and the kind children, Europe, Eurostat, which the Prime Minister sometimes questions, but it is objective statistics, records the debt of the Member States of the European Union by the ratio of absolute debt to GDP. So here's the period from 2008 to 2013. There was mostly Minister of Finance Kalousek, who now goes to the media to advise. I don't know what he's really saying, but he could have told us why he'd raised the debt from 28,1 to 44,4. [[14.20 hours]] You may have forgotten that the government that ended in 2013 was Nečasův' government, and in that government was Prime Minister Fiala as Minister of Education. He was there for about 430 days. All we remember is that he wanted to charge a school fee, so the kids here would pay tuition. I don't think that's a good idea. And there was Mr. Stanjura. If anyone says that in 2021, when we quit and the debt was 42 percent, what the youth here says is less than 44.4, then, of course, they're lying because it's not true. That means, the Prime Minister says so, yes, over and over again, that when we came to the government and I became Minister of Finance on January 29, 2014, we fixed our finances. We've introduced daňový kobra, we've introduced control reports, we've introduced EETs. The Prime Minister argues that it was EET that we turned off... I mean, when he was covid, yes, we turned it off because we wanted to make it easier, but of course it was expected that we would continue. In the history of the Czech Republic, we had a five-time surplus budget. Three times Mr. Finance Minister Kočárník had it, I had it in 2016, 61 billion, and Mrs. Schillerová had it in 2019. We put our public finances in order, and we were one of the best in Europe that I remember, so we were second to Luxembourg. Then the covid came in, and now the five-wheelers are still blaming us for our debt. Yes, we were in debt because everyone was in debt - and we were supposed to let 15 percent unemployment be here so people would lose their jobs? You've been yelling at us for covideo, we're not giving enough! They're making fun of me on these networks because, of course, I can't speak as well as the Prime Minister, but my parents are gonna edit it again, it's my performance, we're gonna make it look like videos, and it's gonna be system. The Prime Minister speaks systemically, but he's lying! He's still lying. And those lies are unbelievable. Here's the bankruptcy haunting, and that's why they're taking people's money. Retirement, but also students. If students go to college here, and some of them don't have parents to pay for their expensive boarding school to pay for their expenses - why did they take their fare discount, why would they immediately take a discount on the fare, awkward 1.8 billion? Can't the Prime Minister find it? So here once and for all, please, it is clear that the Czech Republic has good finances, debt, when we were done, we had the sixth best finances in Europe. This incompetent government dropped by two places, yes, in 2022 they already had a higher debt than they left us in 2013. But don't make excuses for the YES movement that we left our country in some bad shape. It's not true. We had the sixth best finances, we were the ninth most prosperous EU country. Yes, we've been raising people's salaries, we've been lowering taxes. We've been cutting taxes. So here it is. [[He's showing the material.]] It's blue and red. And they're statistics. I repeat... And the lie where the Prime Minister says we have to do something, or we're gonna go bankrupt. We're not gonna go bankrupt. The debt, although it has deteriorated by two places in this government, is still half, half, compared to other EU Member States. Half. And, of course, pro-government media are broadcasting, still writing articles, as Greece is an example of how it has improved. Yes, Greece has improved because it was at a stage that it was absolutely unfinanceable in financial markets and has 174 percent debt, but that is four times more than the Czech Republic. So, of course, these are the constant untruths and manipulations, and it's really incredible. That is the biggest, biggest lie of this government and Prime Minister that we are simply in bad shape. We're not in bad shape. We're not in bad shape. Under our government, we've been cutting taxes, we've been raising salaries. Yes, we've reduced taxes. And now the second biggest lie is inflation. Here before the election we were in the debate, Prime Minister Fiala yelled at me: Babišův's precious! And we had inflation in December 2021, 5.3 % or 5.4 percent. And we reduced inflation in November and December 2021, and the Czech Statistical Office itself confirmed this by reducing VAT from 21 percent to zero. And it literally said that energy inflation in November and December 2021 was negative. Negative, yes. And the Prime Minister and all those so-called experts, and I'm gonna stop by here. Those experts, please. Like it's incredible that the Prime Minister is making excuses for the experts, and who are the experts? Who was sitting there on that government press conference that lasted two and a half hours? The lady who works at the bank that still operates in Russia and has to do business because they've been fired by thousands of people in Russia, well, that would be a disaster. And the other lady who was also talking stuff over there. But these people, these experts, you always have to ask where they came from, what they've been through and where they've been employed. I was also shocked when I was getting ready, so I watched Czech TV for a longer time before I went to Prima the other Sunday, and there was an expert who used to work for Mr Bakala, so he shouted that it was incredible that our fellow citizens went on vacation to the sea. Imagine. That people go to sea on vacation. Well, they're fine, so that's a scandal. How do they even go to the seaside? So take their money, take everything, so they don't even have a place to live, right? We're gonna ban coal boilers, gas boilers, we're gonna go back to the caves, that's the new philosophy, and we're gonna eat bugs because that green Europe is gonna destroy our cows. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] So these are the experts. These are experts who understand, mostly theorists. And I've always been shocked - and I get to it, I've had a lovely conversation from the former governor. That, young people, destroyed your dream - and you are still young - but those young households, about your own housing. [[He's turning towards the gallery.]] He actually ruined the mortgage. And now in this debate, it's also as if it's incredible how these people are taken away from the reality because they don't understand what it's like to employ people, to give people a salary and a levy every month. They don't know. So that one expert at the CNB says - now concentrate well - that wages should not be increased because it causes inflation. And everybody keeps saying that shit over and over again. Yes? [[14.30 hours]] We have - and I think unemployment figures are going to be published today - we have de facto zero unemployment because those who are unemployed don't really want to work. I was at the embassy on Sunday after Prima, and there were about six ambassadors, and they exchanged contacts. One can't get a gardener, the other can't get a driver and a cleaner. They're not human and they're not human. They won't. They won't, okay? So the unemployed, they don't want to work. If Minister Jurečka has promised to fight it, so if the employment authorities ever start working and take the job's résumé and come to the company and the company says, "I'm taking it," and then he doesn't get in, then he can't get the shot, okay? So, of course, there's a situation where... I'm going back to that inflation one more time. The Prime Minister here says we caused inflation because we gave people money. Yes, we've increased everyone's salaries, and we've reduced taxes. Overall, we have reduced taxes by 504 billion. Yes? Somebody try to explain to me... And the experts keep saying that... and the CNB rep says... so people aren't, the CNB rep says, if you give them salaries, there's going to be inflation. How are those companies supposed to find these people if they don't pay for them? I don't understand! I really don't get it. It would be good if someone explained it to us. So the inflation - then the Prime Minister said Babišův's dearest. One more time, and hopefully everyone will understand. We gave money, we cut taxes, we had inflation 5.4. The Prime Minister and his government didn't give people money, they took money, and they caught up with inflation until 19 percent, and we are still the third worst in Europe. Third worst in the EU. Well, why is that? Why is he still lying? The theories about inflation? That's interesting, if someone had made all of Mr Rusnok's remarks, as he would have turned the inflation by raising the interest rate of the Czech koruna, he wouldn't have hit him once. He didn't miss once. Because it was inflation that came from abroad! And the energy crisis? Yes, the war in Ukraine has fundamentally affected the energy crisis. But the first crazy decision in Europe was made by Angela Merkelová when she decided that Germany would shut down all the nuclear power plants just to win the elections in Hessen against the zelený. Against those crazy zelený who want to destroy Europe! Yes? That's where it started. And then we will see a situation where Finland, after 16 years of building a nuclear power plant that is nine years late, opens it - and the same day Germany closes the last core. Unbelievable! That's where it started, yes. That's what Germany decided. And unfortunately, it's still on the plate. I made such a video last time, let's say with exaggeration that Prime Minister Fiala could call Chancellor Scholz to sell us the three nuclear power plants, each for one euro, and we would run them and save them - I don't know how much they're going to cost Dukovany and how much it's going to cost to expand Temelín. Of course I'm making fun of it, because the Prime Minister, the Chancellor, would say, but I can't. But even in Germany, these people are starting to think, and maybe the CDU, if they come back to the government one day and remove the green freaks, maybe they'll start it again. And that's where it started. That's where it started. Why am I talking about this? Because Prime Minister Fiala's government couldn't handle inflation. She could have fought her. I proposed this to them on 18 February 2022, when Minister of Economy Sulík in Slovakia agreed with electricity producers to put the price of electricity up to CZK 1,500 per megawatt. Well, right after that, the government started to question it and mock us. Why didn't they do it with us? Why didn't they put a price on electricity at the manufacturer's? Let everyone count 1,500 kroner per megawatt, what that would mean. Huge savings for residents. But mostly, we need electricity for everything. We're lighting up here, too. Just a big food debate. Well, imagine that it takes electricity to produce food, and that yogurt cup also needs electricity. The yogurt goes in the carton, and the yogurt needs electricity for the yogurt. Then we have to take the cardboard to the chain at the time it cost, I don't know what, 52 kroner. So if the government were to put a price on electricity at 1,500 kroner per megawatt... Of course, it would be preceded by what I have said here x-times, which means the redemption of 100 percent of ČEZ shares, just as Musk Elon did with Twitter, and like Macron did with Électricité de France, it is French CEZ, as the Španěl did. Why do they even have half the inflation? If the government had done this, of course, the tens of billions, or I don't know if hundreds of billions, tens of billions, wouldn't all have paid in favour of three electricity producers in the Czech Republic, who are drowning in profit, and everyone else paid. There wouldn't be inflation, even our pensioners wouldn't have to pay that much money for electricity, and it would have been resolved. Sorted. Moreover, the CEZ - because the Prime Minister often talks about the energy addiction and so on, we probably won't go back to the time of the coupon privatization, when the ODS sold everything here and we have the CEZ. And that CEZ if the state buys out - and I think CEZ has enough money to realize the purchase itself - so if the state gets 100 percent of ČEZ, of course it can build an energy strategy on it and, above all, it can influence all households, it can influence all companies, businesses, because of course the electricity is a problem. That's why I was shocked when the governor recently gave an interview where he said the ceiling on energy was late and high, it raised inflation. Well, that's shocking. When he was governor, he didn't talk about it. The article only came out in Law, and they didn't put it on News for any special reason. So this is on the table. If the government buys out ČEZ's money and deals with the shareholders, it is a matter of negotiation. 30% of minority shareholders in the last five years, as I recall, received about 30 billion on dividends. The equity is 200 billion. It is clear that the state decides. When the state says it doesn't pay dividends, nobody does. We do not know what the government wants to do with ČEZ. If it really were to turn out to be a split-up and the lucrative part was kept by the minorities, that would be absolutely scandalous. [[14.40 hours]] So if the government were to do this, it would get 100 percent of the company that has a LNG terminal rented in the Netherlands for five years, which has 20 percent of the gas distribution that it has lithium that they wanted to steal before the last election, and we prevented it and put it on the ČEZ. And I'm glad the Prime Minister has just visited the location where it's lithium, well, and that's where he can implement the strategy. Well, that didn't happen. The government and Prime Minister keep saying that we caused inflation by giving people money. This is absolutely nonsense, because our government's population savings have increased by 900 billion in four years. So basically, it's nonsense to say that - and so does the CNB guy - you can't raise salaries because it causes inflation! What kind of nonsense is that? It's like if we raise salaries, a roll won't cost three crowns, but ten? Or what kind of nonsense is that? I don't understand because it's total nonsense! Because the government is happy with the inflation. And it's a de facto inflation tax. Yes. So the government, because it made the atmosphere here that we have a problem in public finances, which is nonsense, we don't have any, so inflation is throwing at us, absolutely incomprehensible. And those theorists who are defiling on TV and talking about inflation - so why didn't Mr. Rusnok, when he was governor, and before raising the interest to 7 percent, why didn't he affect the oil producers' cartel? No? He could've gone to the sheik meeting and said something. Well, because he didn't have any influence on it. Emission allowances - when the Prime Minister yelled at me that we had to do something about it, we did. We tried, and then he didn't do it at all. Emission allowances, yes. The producers of coal electricity must pay emission allowances. Emission allowances, and I'll get to that, of course destroying the price of emission allowances, destroying the industry. And after that disastrous Presidency, it will, of course, have an impact on the car owners, the property owners, and so on. So repeating that we caused inflation is an outrageous lie. An outrageous lie. It's not logical. Inflation, I repeat again, energy prices from abroad, the Leipzig Stock Exchange, emission allowances, and, of course, the overall situation in Europe. And the war in Ukraine, yes. The price of grain and so on. So it caused inflation. And the government, instead of doing something about the inflation, how we did it, and if we were in the government, we would have reduced the price of electricity to CZK 1,500, she would have done nothing. Why didn't she do anything? Because in 2022, she cashed 140 billion extra crowns for inflation, and this year, as far as I know, it's already 59 billion. So it's almost 200 billion that the government cashed in for inflation. It's an inflation tax. Well, after, of course, the inflation is falling now and it's probably going to go down, well, so that the government can follow up on taking people's money for inflation, so now they're being brutally taxed, because they're still saying that we have a problem. I think the problem is that our government is simply incapable of... is not capable and does not understand that he has income. That's the main problem. The main problem is that the government keeps talking about spending, talking about how to save money. Well, they don't spare themselves. Of course, they didn't freeze the salaries we approved, the freezing, outside justice and the prosecutor's office, as early as September 2021. Then the five-wheelers here hypocritically voted for us because they knew the Senate would drop it after the election. Everywhere there are nominees, various advisors and colleagues from the political parties of the five-wheeler, three unnecessary ministries - so, of course, they could show the investigation to the people in their possession. I read there that Mr. Bartoš even has four cars, I don't know what they have in there. So they don't save money, but they invite people to save money. And of course, some of our people are still living off those savings because of us. But how many people have had to terminate early retirement insurance? How many people are late on rent? I don't know if the Prime Minister knows how much it costs to rent 3 + kk in Prague. Do you know how much it costs? Thirty-seven thousand without energy. Now the Minister of Finance will come Stanjura and raise property taxes. Well, what do you think the owner of the apartment is gonna do? It's obvious he's gonna want it from the tenants. So the government doesn't deal with income at all. Well, of course, the Prime Minister explained it last time, and that's the right explanation that every household has income, the company has income, and then it has expenses. This is not the case with the state for incomprehensible reasons. The state, if he were to get a stamp from the auditor, he would never get it. Because, of course, the budget is about spending. So if we have this crazy deficit that we have today, we're gonna see if the finance minister is even gonna come up with a change in the deficit, or he's just gonna leave it to the revenue, to the coincidence. If you were to put electricity on 1,500 kroner, the windfall tax didn't have to be dealt with at all. That is, of course, nonsense. The whole windfall tax, first the finance minister estimated it to be 100 billion, then, now he said he was wrong. Now it's gonna be, I don't know, 60 or how much, and he's counting on the collection. And what do we really hear between companies? That it's another hit on companies, in such a form that from 1. The 7th of this year companies will pay a tax advance. And the windfall tax will be calculated in June 2024. And that's where it turns out if the companies didn't pay... If they've got the profit figured out by the Financial Administration, they're actually asking for the advances. But I have information that the government and the state will actually borrow the money terribly, because the advances will probably be higher than the tax in the finals. Therefore, the state will have to return. Well, of course he won't pay you interest! Rusnok destroyed the mortgage market here. He destroys Czech companies that are not able to have euro loans and only have koruna loans. Yes, 7 percent. Seven percent. And you think those companies that pay the high deposit, and then they find out they don't have the profit that the state pays them the interest rate? Well, of course they won't pay them! So that's another absolute nonsense. [[14.50 hours]] The Prime Minister was actually bragging about the price of electricity. But on what level? After all, we have, and statistically, when the Prime Minister did not like it and protested against Eurostat, we have one of the highest electricity and gas prices in Europe. Well, what's going on now? What's happening is that on that high ceiling, the state is actually compensating for the contracts that were concluded before. But I'm asking you, in what way? If two make a deal and sign back the power supply contract to shave the state, then who's gonna check it? No? I mean, we remember all that now, the way it was with the solariums and so on. So that's another thing that's problematic. The government and the finance minister, as I have said repeatedly, do not deal with income. I am shocked that Mr. Prime Minister's advisor says that our fellow citizens should go shopping in Poland. We've been accused of proposing a fuel ceiling. Yes, we designed on 36 crowns, not as Maďar had it at 24, both Croatia and Poland. Yes, it was necessary at the time, yes. But what about the groceries? For food, Poland reduced VAT to zero. Now the government here in this package, and that's the tax package, it's not a consolidation package, it's proposing a reduction from 15 percent to 12. And of course it won't be enough. Of course it won't be enough, and of course it's too late. I do not understand that the government does not mind that logically our fellow citizens go shopping in Poland. And Mr. Prime Minister's advisor says, well, go there. But our people buy everything there. And I am convinced that they will also buy those coal boilers that, for incomprehensible reasons, this government has banned, I do not understand. The government forbids the sale. And what happened in Poland? I've got an article here saying they're gonna bring it home for you. So you don't have to go to Biedronka anymore, but just order it. And our people are businessmen, so they bring it to you. And these are normally billions of crowns that will be missing in the budget. It was written to me by some of my fellow citizens that how many people, how big a basket they buy there, how often they buy there, how many people they buy there. And, of course, those chains that are next to the border with Poland have a huge problem. So the Prime Minister's advisor says, "Shop in Poland if you don't like it." And here is an article: Huge differences in the prices of goods between the Czech Republic and Poland are a breeding ground for companies that try to mediate the purchase and its transport to the Czech Republic. They often take advantage of the fact that Polish e-shops do not send goods across borders, so intermediaries offer candidates from the Czech Republic pick-up in Poland and imports to their homes. Recently there are offers where customers personally drive people who do not have their own car, especially seniors. Well, here we have the portal nakupy-polsko.cz You can order everything, and no one cares. I don't get it. After all, it's all the money our people spend abroad, so the taxes won't stay at home - and nothing's happening. I don't get it. Again, the second biggest lie after the first one, that we have funds at risk of bankruptcy, and I don't know what, is that we were supposed to cause inflation by giving people money. This is unbelievable. Unbelievable. And the theorists, the different experts, of course, the experts who perform in the media, are chosen to speak correctly. The only expert on Czech television who spoke differently than that person from the CNB and that member of the CNB, a former employee of the bank... By the way, have you ever heard anyone in the media say that because Mr. Rusnok blew the interest at 7 percent, how much did the banks receive last year from the CNB? Do you know how much? They got 180 billion. 180! They've got the money, it's still there, and they're jumping the interest. So it's absurd to say we're not supposed to give people money because it causes inflation. It's a lie! It's a lie. The inflation was caused by other, external things, and the government did nothing. And the ČNB, when Rusnok was there, it was fine. Now that Michl's there, he's getting soda. And, of course, I fundamentally disagree with what the CNB was doing under Rusnok, which actually destroyed the mortgage market, which damaged companies and so on. And it's the same for Michl. I don't understand when we export 87% of our goods to the European Union and the eurozone basically had a long interest rate of zero, then they went to 2.5, to 3, it's just half now, and why are ours supposed to pay 100 percent more interest than the eurozone? Yes, even the overdebted Greece, which is improving now, but it's still four times more in debt than we are, so why do they have the advantage? I don't understand. I don't understand. It was a major CNB mistake. It was wrong, they didn't hit any inflation, they just promised. They didn't hit her. And then they argued. When Rusnok was there, the Prime Minister didn't say anything when Michl got there, so they started with each other saying who caused it? Well, of course, she did it first... And they were supposed to debate. I noticed the debates about whether the CNB Board members were to appoint a president, even the president's advisor, who talked about it on TV or the government. But to say that it's separate and that the government is actually saying, well, we, the CNB, we don't have much to do with it, now they're calling them names that they actually did it, and vice versa. Well, then I guess the logic should be discussed. And the CNB made a fundamental mistake after the government had failed. Because, of course, if the government hit that inflation, the CNB would have no reason to raise the interest completely insanely, completely unnecessary. And it's wrong, of course, because all the prognosis didn't work out. Well, I'm glad Mr. Rusnok is five now. 6. Says the power ceiling was late and high. Okay, so he's actually saying what I've been saying for a long time, it's raised inflation, so one day he says he's fighting, and that's why he's raising the interest... So nothing's true. These people live in an unrealistic world. They don't understand how it works, and it's wrong. So again, I'm glad we gave people money, our people aren't stupid. They have savings, yes. And the Prime Minister, when he says that we've caused inflation - and as far as I know, we've processed the abolition of a super gross wage here together, it's no comment. [[He's laughing.]] So that's how it is. [[15.00 hours]] So I'm going to go back to misunderstood or not because of where the government, instead of taking money from seniors and wanting to take employees, wants people to pay higher taxes, all of them, even students, doesn't understand that it's supposed to take care of income. Yes. And it's true that the revenue doesn't count. It's incomprehensible, but it's true. Because every household or company works by having income, and then, of course, if I don't want to be in debt, I have to live by income. Another big chapter of government misunderstanding and incompetence is European funds. It's like incredible that there's no talk of it at all. When we were in the government, I used to train the Secretary of Finance a lot to tell me how much she had in the money. And, of course, she told the ministers. Because the system is abnormal. The system is that the European subsidies are backed up by the state, so first it gives money and then it goes to Brussels to ask for money. Yes? It's abnormal, isn't it? If the state wanted a better cash flow... But it's a system, that's how it works. It doesn't make sense. So, of course, if the state didn't want to finance it, he'd ask first and get - he wouldn't get - and then pay off. When we started in 2014, we basically inherited the 2007-2013 programming period and the money wasn't exhausted. I will not go back to history, when traditional democratic parties, when they found out that there are some European funds and subsidies that bother the Prime Minister, and that is the idea of Brusel, of course, so we remember the affairs, the IROPs and everything. We had to return 38 billion to Brussels because the funds were mainly intended to be stolen. The programme period 2014 to 2020 was negotiated by Prime Minister Nečas. He negotiated 648 billion. Yes? And the programming period, of course, there's the N+3 system, which means that the money has to be spent by the end of 2023. And so I've read some risk analysis from Mr. Bartoš, the MMR, where he says there's a risk of losing $5 billion, maybe more. Yes? And most importantly, there is still to be certified, that is, to ask Europe for 128 billion. And that money from Europe goes into our budget, that is, all the money from Europe goes into the Czech budget, where they then go to pensions or all the cost of the state, so that's why it's important. And as far as I know, besides this uncertified money, there's a lot of money on the way. So these are the revenue of the budget that, according to my information, neither the Prime Minister nor the ministers care about much. Yes? That means that this should be a pace of up to 15 billion a month. And instead of everything that has arms and legs charging and certifying and chasing it, according to my information, nothing like that happens. And that's the past period, where I think it's really, I don't know exactly, but it could be 150 to 200 billion in the budget. Yes? But nobody talks about that. And as far as I know, no one cares much about it, instead of the ministers telling each government how they are about how much they've filed, what's at risk. Programming period 2021 to 2027, that was us. Yes, four nights and five days I blocked the European Council. We gained almost EUR 1.6 billion extra money, that was 42 billion, and overall it is 980 billion. And this new period - out of the 980 billion so far, it's only 50, that's 5%. So it's not pumping well because no one's paying attention to it. Well, that's very important, because, of course, we had the REACT-EU project in this money. And that was a big fight on the government where we fought, yes, MPSV. But I supported the Department of Health. And out of the original money, out of 11 billion, we finally allocated 22 billion and politically - I warn you, and politically. Even small hospitals like Nymburk got 150 million, Chomutov - a new hospital was built for 900 million and so on. So health care has always come first for us, unlike Minister Stanjura. When I was at a health conference where he was asked if health care was a priority, he said it wasn't. Well, too bad Mrs. Černochová isn't the Minister of Health. So I don't really understand why you approved that 2% for next year, but I'm gonna get to that, and not the way you had it in the 2025 program, because the health care and the investment plans we had there, and the 22 billion we had, so I'm happy that it did, and let's hope it all worked out. Why am I talking about this? Because Mr. Bartoš didn't understand his role, or perhaps even the Prime Minister. Under our government, a clear order was given to all ministers to report overhangs. That means when a competition is announced, and now I'm going to talk very specifically about the challenge of the 111 IROP, and that's elementary school money. Elementary schools that... Now there's little capacity. I can still talk about how much money we put in the program from June 2014 at the Ministry of Finance in the capacity of schools and kindergartens and sports halls and so on. The minute the challenge was overhanged, the minister had orders from me to inform me, okay? to go to Secretary of Finance Schillerová together and say, "Hey, here's the investment." Investments mean an increase in GDP. Investment means collecting money for the state budget, so you just have to find the money. Well. So now we have on the table... And after Klára Dostálová, who, of course, knows this very well, helped Minister Bartoš somehow finish the construction law, it would be good if he went to her for training. Because in the context of the challenge of 111 IROP to primary schools according to my information, they allocated 2.2 billion and claimed 6.3 billion, which means 4.1 is covered. And, of course, under our rule, I immediately dealt with it. And, of course, it would be good for Minister Bartoš to understand what retiring is. Yeah? Dostálová'll teach him. Well, he doesn't care. I've even read somewhere now that the government is pretending to be saving, that he won't write challenges! Well, what in God's name is that? What is this! [[15.10 hours]] So, for this challenge, after actually $4.1 billion is missing, and I repeat, health care at REACT-EU was missing 11 billion, and we got them because I always wanted us to show that there was something left behind. Not just some flaming speeches. Now I'm gonna read you the 143 complaints. Here, . František Hajdůch. - And please, I don't know who the starosta are for. I don't care at all. We've never thought about it. - Mayor of Lower German. Completely amateur procedure and proof of the inability of MMR to set transparent conditions for evaluation of the quality and need of the project. Why did the MMR change the terms of the applicants' participation? First 10 per cent, then 25 per cent, then 10 per cent. At the expected overpressure of applications, they were to set the amount of the subsidy at 50 per cent, for example, in order to eliminate the purpose of the subsidy submission. - By the way, in our government, we have always thought about reducing the percentage of participation and co-financing of these municipalities. Then there's Mr. Mgr David Joska, Mayor of OU Cermna. How is it possible that entities are called upon to supplement the mandatory annexes? We have honestly uploaded all the mandatory annexes in the belief that non-compliance is a reason to exclude the application. Then there's Martina Pelikánová, Vratimov Elementary School, Masaryk Square. He writes: All directors have certainly prepared their projects for a long time to be meaningful and to bring benefits to schools, i.e. pupils. The reason that the project doesn't go through just for time reasons is completely meaningless. In education, we are constantly being called upon to have equal access to all and we are striving for it. Care for talented pupils, pupils with support measures, talent development, respect for the individuality of the pupil. I've lost my equal access here. It is basically completely irrelevant how high-quality and meaningful the project is. The time of submission is essential, which I find to be an undignified criterion, as well as how to change the minimum amount of the subsidy for a month or two before the submission of the project. Believe me, it takes taste and energy and belief that our work has meaning after all. It's funny here, says Petr Kukla, Mayor of Březolupa. It's better to draw than a push-button. We remember the ODS lottery tickets, don't we? Where it was, in the Ústí Region. Then Ing. Petr Staša, Černilov, elementary school and kindergarten in Černilov. We ask that the principles of transparent and equal access be respected. Thank you. elementary school and Radonice Kindergarten, Chomutov district. We are joining the complaint on how to submit applications. Unfortunately, we have repeatedly tried to complete all the documentation. In the previous case of the cancelled call we were significantly higher under the same conditions. Then there's . Libuše Fialová, Municipal Authority Klášterec nad Ohří. The date of establishment of the application - the system contains 12.00, while at 12.00 the system fired us and it was not possible to at least another 15 minutes to click on the selection of the call at all. By the 13.00 circus, the system was cutting significantly, everything was loaded for a long time, it was impossible to assign access, upload power, the system was falling out. About the same situation as the first round, challenge 23. If a number of applicants did not work for the first hour, how is it possible that all above-the-line applications were submitted within 44 minutes, in addition the first as early as 12.19. Two exclamation points. Most projects above the line were submitted within half an hour. We have been working in the system for several years, but we cannot fill in the application properly and upload all documents within half an hour. Even if the system works normally, the advantage is given to those who will leave the completion of the system on purpose. This is also seen as a great disadvantage to ongoing calls which de facto favour applicants submitting incomplete and poor-quality applications at the expense of applicants who are careful to submit applications according to the requirements of the aid provider. Then here is Petr Kouřil, mayor of the village of Určice. We consider constant changes in the conditions for the call before it is announced and the whole process of submitting the aid application to be completely non-discriminatory and, in particular, non-serious negotiations with local authorities and school contribution organisations, which have spent hundreds of hours of time over the preparatory phase in order to create a quality project and financed funds in the order of millions of crowns from their own resources, which could otherwise be used effectively in other areas, such as public infrastructure. Then there's . Michaela Matoušková, village of Řečany nad Labem. Clicking competition does not fully describe the quality or need of the project, only the time aspect that affects many factors from the speed of data acquisition in terms of their recording and file size, as can be seen in the time span of the requests submitted. We ask for an increase in allocation and for the future to rethink the way in which applications for grants are submitted. Thank you. Then there's Renata Válková, Director, Basic School of Baška. Clearly, the need for funding in this challenge is considerably higher. It is clear that there has been a deception of the candidates for the grant because there is no possibility of any PC in order to record the mandatory attachments at as record time as stated in the list of registered applicants. It is of the utmost importance that the allocation for this challenge be increased. - That's what we did! We did, and I don't know why Mr. Bartoš doesn't do it immediately. Gabriela Palarčíková, this is G Masaryk Elementary School and Kindergarten Chamber Lhotka. As a small-class school, our goal is to modernize multimedia and language classrooms, ensure barrier-freeness, barrier-free social facilities and complete connectivity of the school. Then here is Rudolf Koblic Elementary School, Kadaň, Mr Stanislav Hakl, and he writes: On 21 November 2022 we entered the project under conditions that did not comply with the rules, methodologies of the EU, the European Commission, and in a system which, as in the previous call, showed signs of dysfunction. We believe that, as set up by the system for the award, assessment and evaluation, it runs counter to several essential conditions and rules of projects co-financed by the EU and specifically the IROP project. Then here we have: Monika Machytková, Waldorf Elementary School and Olomouc Kindergarten. He writes: Our project is another stage of construction already realized. It has a logical link. Without its implementation, the school cannot function fully. Logically. Mgr Libor Daňhel, Elementary School and Kindergarten Ostrožská Lhota. I don't like the excuses of the MMR. Several interferences, adjustments, delays, it reeks of corruption, Minister! Basic school Újezd u Brna, district of Brno countryside, Mgr Vladan Kupsa. The set-up, when the challenge is opened at one point, the acceptance of applications and the publication of only the conditions of the call, is considered to be destructive. Specifically, for a call for elementary schools, where there is clearly a huge overhang of applications against allocation, this system is completely inappropriate. With the whole of the analysis of the challenges for elementary schools, we have completely missed a few shifts in the challenges, changes in essential conditions at the last minute and so on, we see as a failure of the Ministry for Regional Development. We call for this IROP to consider a significant increase in the financial allocation of challenges. All primary school directors are primarily concerned with the quality of pupils' education. We believe that elementary schools should not be put into the role of competitors by absurd clicking competitions. - Well, clicking. That's what we have here, the vote. - When the winner is the one who doesn't respect the provider's recommendations and fills the application in less quality, but even faster. Then there's Jicin Elementary School. Mgr Michaela Štábová says: We ask for equal access to the processing of applications. Elementary school and Vítkov Gymnasium, allowance organization, Mgr Miroslav Bučánek. Complaint concerning the submission of aid applications under the 111th IROP call. [[15.20 hours]] Elementary school Nový Jičín, Tyršova 1, Magda Trávníčková: Please consider the situation that we got into as a school. We have spent a lot of time and money preparing the project and now we do not have a request approved because of the technical problems of the system. The obec of Baška, . Tomáš Břežek: We believe that some applicants were significantly faster because they applied incompletely, for example by submitting incomplete project documentation, avoiding a large volume of data upload. Basic school Among the trees, Petra Doleželová: It would be good to meet the conditions that you yourself submit. It's what we're asked to do. It seems so very untransparental in the sense - someone important did not get, let's do it again. There has been a tremendous disillusionment on our side of those who have given everything to make it, and a second time, actually. The municipality of Szběbník wants an increase in the subsidy. Then there's Mgr Barbora Veseleňáková, Komenský Fulnek Elementary School: It is unacceptable for a time competition to be asked in such matters. How much time and money did it take to prepare, pay for the company, and it absolutely doesn't stand a chance, even if it's experienced in filing applications, is it ready at the moment, but we're still a long way below the line? We succeeded in the first challenge, but it was canceled. Why? We are a small town school and we are absolutely unable to implement planned projects for several million crowns without subsidies. I'm asking for an increase in funding to get to all properly written project applications. And last time, René Passinger, town of Potštát: Incorrigibility in entering the project. Well, please, I don't understand. For us, when the mayor of Drahelčice wrote to me that she had five children and that she wanted to live to see at least one of those children attending kindergarten, we went there to see Mrs. Schillerová and Dostálová. And we've been trying to deal with all these demands. Yes, and the nursery was built, the mayor got pregnant again, so she has six children. And we were happy about it. Mrs. Kovářová came to take a picture, she's not here, but that's okay. And we had a 26-billion-dollar program, by the way, even in Chyn, where Mrs. Kovářová was mayor, so they got there for 260 million subsidies. New lovely hall, new capacities, everything. And the mayor in Drahelčice, when the preschool opened, she has a project for a new school for 525 students. Now everyone's surprised there's not enough capacity? Yes, we did the best we could, and there were 26 billion in total. So if I were the Prime Minister's seat, I'd put Minister Bartoš right away to deal with it, just to find the money, because it's not possible, and when you read the comments, that's hell, that's how much energy, effort they've spent on it, and they haven't succeeded. And they should all succeed, just like we did with the hospitals, originally 11, then 22, and we did it all. When there was an overhang, we had to find the money. Well, of course, one solution is that the Prime Minister would go there himself. I was simply surprised that the government still says there's no money, there's no money, and the Prime Minister found the money at the exit yesterday. So we learned that in České Budějovice there will be a new judicial palace for 680 million - well, who wouldn't want it in the other regions? That there's gonna be some fantastic hall, national sports hall, for 1.3 billion. And then the Prime Minister was on the bypass. Well, since our pro-government media isn't actually making history to do any damage, I'd just like to remind you that the tunnel was never supposed to be there because it's a tunnel. And that's where the billion went down. And when you do your monitoring, you will learn that, for example, during the government in which we were, for example, here is an article from August 22, 2014: The construction of the Moor Tunnel Expenses the Highway. The D.O.D. doesn't like it. Oh, yeah. It's a wasted billion. And you know why? Well, because there was supposedly some first deputy and developer František Jelen - I like the band Jelen, but this Jelen from ODS was supposed to have some land, and he didn't fit the highway, so I guess that Jelen arranged to go into the tunnel. Well, a billion gone. Nobody cares. So that's the historical context. It's all traceable, but I understand it's not interesting for the media, because, of course, they have a role to play. The big debate is that the Prime Minister keeps saying that he cut taxes. But what taxes? Well, write-offs. And those taxes that the government and Prime Minister want to raise concern all citizens, VAT and so on. We talked about it here. And the fact that they have decreased, or that depreciation has helped companies, is, of course, incomparable. And a reduction in excise duty on diesel. The Prime Minister is showing that he's reduced taxes, but he's also increasing it now. The government acts according to it when something goes down, but it's not her credit, but they take it because they've made it happen, they've actually let it go -- how can I say it -- they're selling it, then they're selling it, and when they find out something's cheap, they seem to want to tax it right away. So it's not true that this government is actually reducing, yes, there's a few small ones here, a limit to mandatory payerism, but those taxes that are increasing, and which, of course, this government has promised not to raise, are of a completely different nature and, of course, they concern everyone. Plus the haunting of bankruptcy and this nonsense. A new article came out that Czech finances are doing very well and next year, according to the European Commission, the general government deficit will lower to the Maastricht ceiling for the adoption of the euro, the European Commission's forecast and so on. So it's not true, the finances, even though the government, of course, isn't able to keep them in shape like we did, they're doing very well. I'm very interested in discussing the cost of running a state debt. We had an expert in that media space before the election -- they're all independents, and after the election, they're either the Prime Minister's advisors or the head of the... budget board, it's called. And this gentleman who was at the CNB and probably has the ambition to replace the Stanjura, and he's probably just waiting for the Prime Minister to actually replace it, so he scared us that the debt service and that it's gonna be 100 billion, that it's all gonna be hell. So, since journalists do not recall the period of those terrible governments until 2013, I would just like to say that when the Nečasův government ended in 2013, the net expenditure on government debt service was $50.9 billion. Yes? 50.9. And we hit 2019 at 39.6. [[15.30 hours]] The government debt service is interest. Interest, huh? The state borrows, pays interest. For us, we borrowed with negative interest. I remember 15 percent of the debt, we borrowed it, and they paid us for it, because there were these currency speculations, and so on. So we ended up like 42 in 2021, right? And when I compare it to 2013, when it was 51, and 2009, when it was the crisis, when the right-wing government Kalousekn't give the entrepreneurs a crown! They didn't give them anything! They absolutely left them in the crisis - actually to cope with themselves. And last year, it was 49, but, of course, before the election, they were haunted by them and so on, this nonsense. Me and the Prime Minister - of course we exchanged opinions on Sunday and the Prime Minister was very offended. No offense, but he said it's awful like, how would I put it?, incorrect, or what word he used, that I took the liberty of asking how much we actually gave to help Ukraine. But I'm talking about it so you can just count it. What's the big deal? I read in the media - I am not opposed, our movement was the only, only political party that gave money. [[unintelligible]] I personally helped, and so on. And I'm asking you, we don't know. And as far as we know exactly how much GDP was for us in 2020 compared to 2019, and it was 82 billion, and we know how much we gave the companies, 370 billion. Even the anti-Babiš SAO now said that 48 billion for... I don't know what compensation bonus it was that was right. Or should we just leave these people on the floor? We'd all be... shutting down the companies. By the way, even Skoda Auto got 1.6 billion. Everyone forgot about that. The money we spent, all that money can be traced, unlike the money that this government and other governments are doing. So I just wanted the Prime Minister to do it, and the Prime Minister says there's somewhere to look it up, and I didn't find it to be objectified, to say so well, you put 30 billion on the refugees, I don't know how many billions on the guns, so I take it as a number. The Prime Minister said that the draft budget was actually just some number, so I wanted the number so we could assess the impact on the budget. Here it is repeated that Ukraine is the biggest problem of the impact on public finances. And that's why the government is making excuses, which is why the government hasn't evaluated the government's programming statements once. On the contrary, she changed it. She promised the mountains of the mines. And, of course, the main problem was energy, that you didn't do anything, and inflation that suited you. So here's the... And we, when we had the covid, yes, we were still evaluating the government's programming statement, we were still laying down accounts. Petr Fiala's government not once. You didn't step forward once and evaluate. And we've accomplished about 80 percent, and what we haven't accomplished, we've justified why. Nobody cares here at all. In fact, here's a situation where we feel that all the five coalition parties are before the election, everyone has an opinion, and no one really knows what the government wants. Mr Stanjura is going to put the other one, i.e. the draft budget 2024, actually not even that, put it right in the eKLEP somehow secretly or how, just no one could comment on it. Well, the Prime Minister is now saying that it won't actually be dealt with, that it'll be waiting for this. But I don't understand how that's possible. I don't understand. And if we look at that budget, it's incredible that the Department of Defense has an increase of $48 billion, and I don't know if the Secretary of State is gonna spend it, or if he's gonna pay it off on some backup. But the MPSV has only 22 billion - and these are pensions, and this is a chapter that has 921 billion in contrast to defense, which has only 159 billion. And education minus 29 billion. Mrs. Schillerová talked about it. But I forgot about the overhang at the MMR, where the municipalities want money for the kindergartens and schools. And Minister Bek said that he was going to lose 2 billion (?) in terms of the proposals I don't know. and borrows $45 billion. Well, that's great if he borrows it. So normally it should go into the budget, but let him give the 45 billion right away to the applicants, the municipalities that want to build those schools and kindergartens. Let's put the 5 (?) billions. And if there's another overhang, put the money in. By the way, Mr. Bek and I talked about this. I asked him if he would also speak to the Minister of Health if he wanted to borrow for those projects that we were preparing, yes, and which he is destroying - as the National Cancer Plan, the reform of psychiatric care. Yes. We wanted to build the most modern cancer hospital in Prague. So if he borrows - the maternity wards in Brno, everyone in the government is now from Moravia. Now also the director of Czech Television. moravák. Well, we've been told in that hospital in Bohunice that the chief of staff has been waiting for the new hospital for 20 years, so do it to him. We ran it out here with Mrs. Schillerová because it's hell to convince officials. And so do it, the projects. Burning pavilion in the Royal Vinohrady. Look at the look on that Thomayer, the pulmonary pavilion. Thank God Masaryk built this for us. What the Royal Vineyards look like. And all of this - well, it would be good if Mr. Bek borrowed 45 billion to borrow health care - and all those projects that we missed, and thanks to us, a new pavilion for transplantation is being built in IKEM, the Center for Prevention at the Masaryk Cancer Institute. By the way, the Pražák boys who go to Brno for prevention are now due in January. Yeah, you could've had the hospital, but by hating Babiš, you'd have nothing. And God knows how it's gonna end in that Motol where it ends, the money. So - and the Prime Minister now at the conference, where was it? Now I think in Moravia somewhere, or I don't know where, it doesn't matter, so he's actually saying he's going to adjust the terms of investment incentives, yes, and planning strategic investments. I would just like to say that we have prepared a National Investment Plan by 2050. There are 20,000 projects for 8,000 billion! Health has 164 billion there! So all he has to do is turn it over to the minister, and then, with the support of the Prime Minister, he goes to Stanjura and gets the money, just like you did on the trip in České Budějovice. Well, if you guys gave away $2 billion, then you need to visit all those places, and it's gonna be great, and the money's gonna be. So we've been planning for the long term, the long term, the health investments, the total investment. Monuments. It's great that you're actually implementing all those projects now that the Prime Minister said we weren't. All the bypasses, all the highways that Kupka is opening now, and he doesn't invite us - why would he invite us there, of course, when we invited him when we were opening the Karlovy Vary section? - but good, so they're ours. Karlštejn, Imperial Spa, which I once invented and then pushed. But that's okay. We'll take a picture before the Imperial Spa. But I think Vildumetzová was invited. Hungarian Hradiště, Invalidovna. [[15.40 hours]] Where's the New Scene Project? And the National Gallery? That was a fantastic project. I showed it to Macron, the French collection. Why aren't you doing this? Why don't you continue to restore our cultural monuments? Well, I don't know, I think it would be good if we talked about it normally, and not just keep saying that just... It looks like we didn't do it. We've done so many things, we've prepared so many things, and we've taken over 2014. How many motorways were there - 800 meters or how many were there? I mean, Bárta 2010's the one who blew it all up. I have just read an article that has done everything to Poland since 2010. Perhaps they managed to build thousands of kilometers. Yes, unfortunately. We set it up, the station, the station for 10 billion we had there. So I just want to say that the Prime Minister should be aware when he talks... that he wants to improve the conditions for the influx of foreign investment. So what kind of investor comes here when you promised something before the election that you wouldn't raise taxes - no taxes, you're turning it into some other parameter. You just said you wouldn't raise taxes. Period. And that is the biggest betrayal, the biggest betrayal especially on your voters, but on all of them. So what foreign investor will come here to invest if they don't know what taxes will be? And when Mr. Stanjura finds out that there's something cheap again, he's going to tax it or actually succeed when the Minister of Agriculture talks about starting a war between the chains and this kind of nonsense. Investment incentives, if, and I agree that money should not be given, that it should be tax incentives. Yes, there is a need to evaluate the various incentives, but especially if it is not a stable business environment, I think it is not at all good. Well, unfortunately, I don't know who's making the case for the Prime Minister, but if he said that even if our government didn't enforce anything else, its contribution is greater than the benefit of both populist-socialist governments that preceded... So I don't know if that populist Jurečka's here? But he's not here. He was with us in the government and there we mainly reduced taxes for parents, for children, for the first, second, third child and so on. So I'm sorry that the lies are still being repeated here, that the obvious things that are on the table that are clearly documentable, so the Prime Minister will simply say that he doesn't like it and he doesn't like Eurostat and that he will actually fight opinions that he doesn't like. So the claim, the main claim that we have to take these measures, or the state is failing, is absurd. And please stop scaring these people already. Those people believe you, they don't know you're lying, and stop scaring them, it's not funny. Of course, your experts who go there and repeat this nonsense, so here I have a headline: There is no apocalypse in the Czech Republic. The government got caught up in a trap and spooked the public, says Kovanda. So there's no danger, and basically you haven't fulfilled everything you've said. On December 4th, the Prime Minister said: We do not believe that there should be a way of raising taxes and burdening companies and citizens, and so on. I think there's so much on these networks that people are already making fun of it. Mr. Švejnar, what did he say about the package? That it's crucial to raise the standard of living. We did it. We cared about people having a good time. You say we're populists. Populists, yes. And even extremists. Well, we're proud populists. It makes me happy when people are well. I was happy when we raised the standard of living. And we beat Italy, Spain. Now you are behind them, you have fallen from the ninth place of the most prosperous country in the EU to the 12th. [[the most prosperous?]] Even in that debt, you promised, and you're no longer sixth, but eighth. You don't give a damn about raising the living standards of the population. You just don't like people, especially your finance minister. I don't understand at all. Now he's actually trying to cut his wages. So if you want to save money, well, I don't know, you can release all the members of your party. Then it's gonna be clouds. I remember in the first government when I didn't understand when Sobotka and Bělobrádek told me that they had to have some deputies for them, and then when Jurečka was there, so many of his teammates found there. We've never done that before. So you can save, you're an example. You didn't freeze your salaries, yeah, you're just saying that people should be saving. So if an economist has an opinion other than that establishment, and we already have a new establishment that controls everything. Only 46 percent of the voters voted for them. Of course, I don't include the President. Well, of course, it's still a struggle with the misinformation and the untruths that are actually being recycled. When I think of all the things you guys actually made up. When I get back to you guys blaming Norwegian gas, okay? It was clear that the contract had left RWE. And today, of course, Maďar have 40 percent of the gas distribution in the Czech Republic, which this government therefore hates for incomprehensible reasons. But okay, that's your strategy. How you guys talked about how we didn't want that pipeline from Poland. Well, we wanted to. Of course the Polák didn't want him. And then the pipeline ended up somewhere near Slovakia, so that's all... Emission allowances, as you screamed, Prime Minister, yes? And I tried, I wrote letters, I performed, but you just didn't do much there. The declarations, and now I'm talking about the energy addiction, so... you cut yourself off from Russian oil. So you cut yourself off... and of course it's nonsense, because you have no influence that last year the Czech Republic imported 850 000 tons of Russian oil more than a year before. Yes, that's where you do - MERO and capacity expansion. And it's interesting that... Of course the owner decides, and they're Polák! By the way, even the Polák who cheated on you with the Turów! Yesterday, Morawiecki was there, and he actually denied all your bargains. Well, that's another failure. Well, about the energy. Of course, since the first half of 2002, we have warned about this. Among other things, we have the most expensive electricity in the EU in the long term according to Household Energy Price Index reports. We do. It is absolutely incredible that last year the Czech Republic exported three times as much electricity to neighbouring countries where electricity is cheaper than in our country. That's like incredible. Really unbelievable. How is that possible? Total failure! And once again, we have the most expensive electricity in terms of the purchasing power of the population. [[15.50 hours]] When Eurostat announced that we had the second highest in the EU and that this was achieved year-on-year, the increase, 97 percent, the Prime Minister protested, but I think Eurostat is probably right. Our households paid for a megawatt hour 9 130 and we wanted 1,500, Maďar paid 2,570, Polák 3 810 and Slovák 4 470. So it's the highest price. So that's the main failure, that's where the inflation started, that's where you let it go. And you keep repeating that independence. So first, the Prime Minister said he didn't want Russian oil, then he asked for an exception that Viktor Orbán made there, and last year basically more Russian oil came in. So even the declarations don't work. Then there's the gas all over again. Those who understand gas are fascinated by the fact that somebody says anything - how can they know what kind of gas we import here? Yes, the Czech Statistical Office knows. And if the Czech Statistical Office says that last year natural gas was imported for 76 billion, 81 percent of it was from Russia, then I do not know how it is possible that Mr Síkela claims that no gas, and 18 percent from Germany. And here is basically an article, the question of where Czech suppliers buy gas for their customers. Physically, it is Russian gas, but nobody buys it directly from Gazprom. Suppliers purchase gas on the wholesale market or on energy exchanges. So the declarations... but okay, I'm not buying it, I'm just saying that people who buy gas, for example, Innogy Energy buys gas mainly through MVM Energy and RWE Supply & Trading. And these two companies are ex-owners of Innoga. Prague gas works mainly for large energetic suppliers. He doesn't shop at Gazprom at all, on stock exchanges only in the order of lower units of gas. So CEZ also had gas for the contract. In short, it's a total mess, in those declarations, because it's not really known where the gas purchased for Czech consumers comes from. Large international traders and exchanges have gas from various sources, alongside Russia also from Norway, the Netherlands and countries that export liquefied natural gas on ships. [[unintelligible]] With regard to the principle of the functioning of the natural gas market in our country, we cannot distinguish where natural gas was extracted from us. So the political declarations, of course, are made by swaps, so it would be good to get it right. So that's the energy. I'd like to... By the way, the Russian oil imports through the Cooperative are now flowing across the south, so the Czech Unipetrol will buy up to 430,000 tons of Russian oil in June after May's purchase of 400,000. So it's weird. It is strange to me that Russian gas flows through Ukraine and Slovakia, but these are things that we may not fully understand. I'll get back to the state budget. Various speculations as to how he could end up at the end of the year. The development of the state budget this year raises a number of arguments about what will eventually be the amount of its deficit, because it is clear now that the approved budget deficit is completely unrealistic after five months. We will need more numbers than usual to model this year's budget. Perhaps a kind spectator here will understand this, because using these numbers and calculations should make it easier to understand how this budget was formed. What is there to come out of? I believe that the analysis of this year's budget must be based on an assessment of the so-called aliquota. We come from the fact that the budget is essentially evenly implemented over the course of the year, i.e. both income and its expenditures over the course of the year are essentially evenly drawn. Tax collection is ongoing. VAT comes as consumption goes... By the way, I actually forgot about the exposé of food purchases in Poland that retail sales and consumption statistics came out yesterday - and it's going down again. It's going down again because, yes, first of all, people are buying in Poland and second of all, because you scared them off and the poor people are afraid of what's going to happen, you're still scaring them -- even war, of course, not just bankruptcy -- and then, of course, people are buying less, and then, of course, the income is what it is. The budget, if there are any minor monthly fluctuations, will be more or less aligned in the coming months, and the last five months is enough time to compensate for the minor fluctuations. It is precisely the assessment of the large drawing-up of the budget that can therefore reveal how credible the budget is. The monthly aliquota is therefore budgeted for 12 months, i.e. around 8.3 percent of the budget drawdown and its revenue should be achieved in one month. What do the figures show about the development of the budget for this year's five months? The budget expenditure has been exhausted at 41.7 %, corresponding to the quota. If we are consistent, then the aliquota is 41.5 %, i.e. the budget is drawn even in a slight advance. But budget revenue lags behind -- and that's what we're talking about, that European money, and it only draws 34 percent, and of course it can be that, in short, by saying EET, we're not really interested in whether or not these entrepreneurs are showing sales, that's how it is. [[We say]] Last year, budget revenues for the same period amounted to 37.3% of the year-round and were therefore significantly better. First of all, there were better tax revenues - 38.8% of the plan. This year, tax revenues are also better - 35.9, but this is due, of course, to inflation, but this improvement is not enough to cover the entire outage of other income. If we simplify it, then the conclusion is that the budget received revenue only in five months only in four, and that is the essence of the deficit. So if the budget is counting on the total revenue of 1 941 billion, so if we convert it into a monthly aliquota, then every month it should receive roughly 160 billion income. The budget deficit, based on the draft budget for this year, is 295 billion, re-translated into an aliquota, and the monthly deficit is expected to be around 24 billion. If we project all of this into the result of this year's state budget for January to May, then its result is absolutely clear, for five monthly deficits it represents 120 billion and a monthly income loss of 160 billion. That is why, of course, the result cannot be much different from the actual 271 deficit. It is also clear, perhaps, that if nothing extraordinary happens - and now the Minister is coming to save 20 billion this year, that is new information, I do not know when, from yesterday - then the outcome at the end of the year will be fundamentally different from what this government has promised and has been approved in Parliament. But something else is a fundamental problem. This year's budget expects its expenditure to increase by 18 percent compared to last year, its revenues will even be even higher, by 20 percent, as well as last year. The development of budget revenues can be very simply estimated from the development of gross domestic product. There is talk of a so-called compound tax quota, that is the share of tax revenue plus social insurance against gross domestic product, or a simple tax quota. [[16.00 hours]] It is also justified to apply the evolution of the tax quota to an indicative estimate of the revenue of the budget by the fact that the revenue of the budget is essentially consistent with the development of economic activity. So if the state budget for this year expects revenue collection to increase by 20 per cent higher than last year, then it must also calculate with GDP growth by 20 per cent in nominal terms, so GDP tax burden is not increasing. But is this assumption of nominal GDP growth real? Last year, the price increase in GDP, the so-called deflator, 8.6 percent, and the gross domestic product at current prices increased by 11.2 last year. So for this year, the Ministry of Finance seems to have found that nominal GDP growth will be double that of last year, and therefore budget collection will increase at a rate of 20 percent year on year. Although it can be registered that the GDP deflator is 11 percent higher in the first quarter of this year, it is still not enough. Moreover, price growth will slow because it will already be against increased growth by last year. The logic of this procedure can only be understood by someone making this political decision, which has nothing to do with real economic development. That's what this is about. That's the point. Someone just made up a housenumero. The Czech economy has zero growth, because the government, of course, is suppressing investment, taking money from people, strangling the economy. And if this growth is maintained by the end of the year, then it will probably be a small miracle. It's more likely to be a slight drop. The surrounding countries also calculate with a decline in growth, so why should our economy be such an exception? To build tax collection growth on this completely imaginary GDP growth, which cannot be justified at all, is simply dilettanteism. I believe that the Minister of Finance's expert apparatus must be aware that such an assumption based on this year's budget is completely unrealistic, and I do not have any other explanation that he was convinced or ordered to do so. It's the whole new coalition that doesn't get too close to those officials, yeah, and there's a lot of fear. So how could the budget for this year end up? I am based on the fact that nothing fundamental will happen in the economy and developments will continue with inertia. It does not go well to interfere with some budget expenditure items during the year. When we look closer at the structure of expenditure, half the expenditure is spent and the largest items cannot be saved. As far as income is concerned, it is similar. I think VAT collection will increase by 17 percent when retail turnover is 8 percent lower this year in a third of the year. If we include 15 percent of the increase in prices, which is exaggerated, we are still somewhere between 6 and 8 percent of the increase in sales, and only then can we derive VAT collection growth, i.e. completely outside the budget's intention. Modelling the development of VAT is an example of some manipulation. We know that retail turnover has been declining for 12 months, on average monthly by more than 6 to 7 percent, and price growth cannot get it away from the level that the budget is counting on. Then how do we count on such high incomes? But maybe it's not manipulation, it's just trying to find the tax revenue sometimes when the authorities demand it. Similarly, it is with other revenue items. Only taxes on wages and salaries are being paid, so far, also social security. Such a quite realistic scenario of development by the end of the year could count on the government to lose yet another revenue by the end of the year to that already lost one month of income. He's got seven months left. So what could possibly change in the government's behaviour in these months? Because the government talks all the time that it wants to save money, but it doesn't really want to. Even the government is unable to monitor the development. Perhaps the revenue loss will be less than it has been, and then at the end of the year the state budget deficit will be from the original 295 billion, plus tens of billions more, maybe hundreds more. Then perhaps it would be good for the Minister to explain how this will all turn out. Let's hope it's not, I don't know, 400 or what, and that there's just going to be a miracle, and that budget is going to go well. But perhaps, of course, the Minister of Finance knows more than all of us. I was talking about the health service, that's what really matters to me. Under our government, we've increased our health revenue by 229 billion. 1. 6. 2020 we increased the payment for the state insured by CZK 500, the amount increased from CZK 1,067 to CZK 1,567, and from 1 January 2021 we increased the payment of the state by CZK 200, that is to CZK 1767, and from 1 January 2022 we added another CZK 200 and the payment of the state was to be CZK 1 967. This means that over the course of two years we doubled the payment for state insured persons and increased by 900 crowns in total. And so this government started, and then after taking the pensioners' money, the discount, and so on, and now it's taking away 7,000, so it came and canceled our increase by 200 crowns and claimed that it's canceling the 200 crowns on the condition that a new valuation formula is set that reflects inflation and price growth. For the year 2023 the law determined the amount of CZK 1,900 and from next year he was to start the valorisation mechanism. He wants to postpone the Treasury for a year now. In practice, this means that we will not receive the amount that our government has determined for 2021 until 2024. Yes. So we wanted it from 1 January 2022, this government canceled it, promised that from 2023, now it says no and that it will be up to 2024. This is unbelievable! Unbelievable that health care, which should be an absolute priority, or one of the top priorities, is going to lose money again. So, in summary, this government approach means that the sick and needy were robbed by 14 billion in 2023 and will be robbed again by another 14 billion in the next year. So the government saves on those we had as a priority, on patients and paramedics. They're not doctors, nurses, dentists. We had a project last year for those 43 dentists. In our country, 40 percent of people don't go to prevention, they go to the dentist, they get toothaches, which, of course, is wrong. It's a problem. There's no circuit doctors, no children's doctors, no neurologists, no children's psychiatrists today, that's obviously a big problem. And we decided in 2018 to increase quotas for medical faculties in the Czech Republic, we put in a program of 7 billion for 10 years and we had other things ready. There's no medication. That's normally unbelievable what's going on here. Those pills, they're... The Minister makes excuses all the time. We had to get them for the covideo. We went to Zentiva, and Storová made an exception to wait, and when something was missing, the cure, I don't remember what it was like, they made it. Even the Bamlanivimab and the Regeneron and other things we were looking for. And I was on the front line because it was and we were really fighting to save the lives of our fellow citizens. The minister tells us - drugs, make a hundred pharmacies first. Now he says if it's nice, you don't need medicine. Now he's actually trying to disrupt the ambulances. This is incredible! That's normally the destruction of it! And now the next idea is that they're gonna be giving some pills. Instead, it will not be a full pack, but it will prescribe tablets. It's chaos. [[16.10 hours]] And in this situation, Minister Stanjura comes and wants to take 5% of the salary from the paramedics! He also wants to take money from caregivers in social services, care allowance - this applies, of course, to our pensioners - employees in libraries, museums, galleries, firefighters. Well, everybody. So because the government is unable to bring inflation down because we have the highest real wage drop in the European Union in 2022 and that's 8.5%, the government is going to give them another blow to just lose money. So if you look up what the coalition promised us here, you can't be surprised. Here's 13 reasons to vote for the SPOLU. [[He's looking at the materials he's got in front of him.]] First, we only defeat Andrej Babiš together. - Well done, congratulations. I hope you will also run together for the European Parliament. We'll build a competent government. - Well, that didn't work. We can defend the interests of the Czech Republic in Europe. - Well, I'll get to that, that was hell. We're not gonna raise your taxes, we're gonna stop you from bankrupting the state. - You lied about bankruptcy before the election. We're the only right-wing choice. - Come on, Prime Minister, you said you were on the same line with the pirát, and the pirát, that's the modern extreme left. They have the pirátka who said she wanted to live in that voluntary communism. They already fired her, but she got about 268 votes. So I am sorry that the pirát, who have a few MPs, four MPs, actually run the whole thing. We'll make sure we have a place to live. - Oh, yeah. And so on. Family is the foundation of the state. - Then why do you want to take the kindergarten, why do you want to raise taxes for married couples where one doesn't work? And so on. So, of course, the press won't tell you, or they won't go back to it. Maybe it would be good to know what your program is now. You had the government's programming statement, and you never evaluated it. We evaluated it. One of those lies from you that's still in that media space is, of course, you've had some sort of pandemic. You didn't have one. You didn't have any covid. On 17 December 2021, at 8 a.m., the last advice was against health risks. You had an omicron, there was no load. So the lies that you're gonna turn -- energy, inflation, and so on, it's really incredible how you can even promote it like that in that media space. But, of course, the media doesn't really ask you how you don't actually do it, and unfortunately, it goes on. Of course, the effects, the increase, and your antisocial approach, of course, are felt by the most seniors alone. Students. I don't understand why - how you dehonest them. You took away the fare discount first, and you told those students who have to work because they don't have wealthy parents, so the minister actually said that whoever has a higher income doesn't actually study and needs to be taxed. I don't understand. The VAT, right, now? Drugs, prices are rising, glasses, dental care, that's what I'm talking about. So the effects are terrible. You were bragging at the beginning when it came... that those pensioners were entitled under the inflation bill. So at first you showed it as your merit -- you inherited it, of course, and you disagreed internally -- and then you showed that you took it away from them, and now you're actually doing it. There's the first Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to act against retired people. The other things - property taxes. I really don't understand when there were posters everywhere, Mr. Stanjura said he'd never let that happen. Actually, I can read you what you said in here. We don't raise taxes. And the property taxes. Here... [[He's looking in his background.]] Increasing real estate taxes is one of the topics that I repeatedly deal with you on my travels across the Czech Republic, says Minister Stanjura. A lot of you are worried that the left will increase taxes. [[He's laughing.]] Yeah, but you're no longer the right, you're the left, Prime Minister. You're even the extreme left. And you wrote a nice book, that conservatism, I read it in Budapest. That's the ODS Bible, except you've already forgotten. So Mr Stanjura says, "A lot of you are worried that the left will raise taxes." I understand when we finally managed to cut taxes and leave more money in their wallets. The Socialists, however, declare an attack on the wallets. - Socialists, that's this government. It's not supposed to be that way. The state should give people space to succeed and not punish activity and diligence. Raising real estate tax isn't gonna help anybody, and it's gonna pay the renter the most. - That's right. A colleague of mine is now renting a new 3+kk in Prague for the crazy price of 37,000. Well, if you increase the tax on the owner, of course he'll have to pay for it. So that the tenants who raise the rent pay the rent and the housing is even more unavailable. Yes, it'll be harder to reach. You haven't historically done anything about this place, de facto. Well, here I am again - Stanjur. We will not increase the income tax or VAT tax. - You're talking about it. Now you've changed the rhetoric that it's some kind of quota, and I don't know what it's all about. Of course it's nonsense. It's nonsense. I don't understand that you don't realize that you've betrayed the ODS normally, you've betrayed the SPOL voters because you're making excuses for the nonsense that we're in danger, I don't know what, bankruptcy - that's a lie, of course - and you're not capable, you're not able to draw up a reasonable budget. Yes, the debate about it... In our country, people want to own - it's not like in Germany, where 70 percent of people are renting - and, of course, the CNB has taken away their hope. Now they've announced that something's gonna get easier in the mortgage business. But the basics, the most important thing, is that you have to pay an allowance of 20 percent... In Brno, a gentleman told me, 2+kk, he has to - I don't know, it costs about five million, such an apartment - so he has to give a million. A million. And he can't afford it. So you, and I'm gonna look into this - otherwise you guys had a great program, you just forgot all about it, and you just don't do it. He was also nice in color. Here we go. [[He's pointing.]] I'll remind you what you had on the program. It's all good stuff. We'll reduce employers' social security by 2 percentage points. All you do is raise them. We'll set up tax breaks for families who receive parental allowance. Oh, yeah, you're taking away the kindergarten and the tax discount. Now, imagine what you have here, Prime Minister, in the program. Pension reform. The basis of the reform will be the guaranteed pension linked to the average wage. Yeah, I'm signing. But under the reign of Babiš, the average wage, not your government. Yeah, give a guaranteed pension and raise wages and it's solved, the whole reform that doesn't exist. There is no reform. Wait, what else do you have here - that you will fight the tide of dividends abroad. Well, I wonder how it is. But it'd be nice. If you sold everything abroad and left 250, 280 billion, that would be nice. [[16.20 hours]] We're going to take a hard step against illegal gambling. I had a feeling you owed something to a sponsor when someone here suggested it, a tax cut. So it was one thing. Well, this is still important. I'm looking for it now. I've seen the mortgages around here, but I can't find it right now. [[He's looking in the background.]] That you promised to do something about the mortgages. So I guess that's... Available housing, page 26, 25... Construction company, yeah: We'll provide mortgage loans for the first housing. Reduction of compulsory participation. Well, that'd be great! Direct State aid with participation. Bonus for every baby born! Oh, great! Then why don't you do it? This is your program. [[He's pointing.]] Colorful, very nice. We'll put together the Czech Republic together. Well, you guys totally screwed up the Czech Republic. So fill in your program, here's some great stuff, and it'll be fine. So if your voters who voted for you and now they see that it was all just a fiction, I don't know, but maybe they're so loyal to you, they'll forgive everything. So these property taxes-- I don't understand it. With us, I think there's another sentiment and that you should walk away from it. Then I've got... So the government's programming statement, I've evaluated, so I don't know if there's gonna be any new ones. So if the public doesn't, the press won't ask you to rewrite it after the package if it's definitive. I have this feeling that it changes every week, you know, your idea of... what you want to do. How are you going to fulfill those... You have said that by completing the austerity package - it is no austerity package, but tax - we have fulfilled one pre-election promise. And I didn't see what the promise was. I really didn't find it, I tried. Green Deal. Well, please, that Green Deal and your pro-government journalists are still talking nonsense. You keep saying I should have signed a Green. I didn't sign any Green Deal. We fought with your friend, Polish Prime Minister Morawiecký, that the Czech Republic and Poland and no one has any concrete commitment. We want to cut emissions, that's for sure, isn't it? That's what we want. We do. But not at the cost of destroying Europe, not at the cost of going back to the caves and biking or walking. So stop saying that again! Stop saying that because it's not true. Under our government at the European Council, we have made a political agreement to reduce emissions. And no one can blame anyone for that. And most importantly, we've made it clear that we don't have a 55 percent reduction obligation. We don't have a commitment. So that's one thing. So, for example, Denmark has 70 percent of the production of energy from renewable sources, and if we had 40, that's 110 divided by two, that's just it, that's 55. And I think we still fought through the taxonomy conclusions there. Core. That Ursula now says the core isn't supposed to be an emission source. She's out of her mind! So that's where we fought, and we fought it out, and I think you're doing it, and it's a good thing we want the core. So the real Green Deal came up with your government. With your government. And for example, you promised before the election that you wouldn't allow a ban on internal combustion engines. And you blamed us for not dealing with the emission allowances. I proposed in September 2021 that the emission allowances be up to EUR 30. That's speculation! Someone's making money on it. Yes, it's budget revenue, it's good, it's the Modernization Fund, you just can't get it into the budget. But the MiFID directive was to be repealed. I hope this ends after the next European elections, because it destroys industry. Commissioner Thierry Breton himself, unlike that lunatic Timmermans, said that if the production of cars with internal combustion engines ends, 600,000 will be unemployed - 600,000 from the automotive industry. Your problem, Prime Minister, is that you have no idea how to promote those interests in Brussels. Actually, you weren't in much of a hurry, unlike me, who was in a hurry. Our government was founded on 13 December 2021, already on 14 December 2021 - no 2017, sorry, 2017 - and already on 14 December 2017 I sat there! Because this is the place where it is necessary to fight for Czech interests! I know you have a coalition partner and the pirát, when it looked like Mr Bartoš was going to be Prime Minister, so he walked around Europe, and they would give it, even today he would pass the Czech Republic's management to Brussels and the European Parliament. I don't understand how you can have, I don't understand why you even have a minister for the EU, but there's this person who talks about us actually going to Europe for orders and doing what the green fanatics make up in the European Commission, which nobody voted for, and what the officials who send the individual Member States are. Then I don't understand. The European Council is a place where they fight hard for those interests. And unfortunately, you did not use it in the Czech Presidency. And of course, if we're talking about, for example, migration that's coming back to life now, somebody's coming back, some quotas, yes, we've taken hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees here, it costs a lot of money, Poland and Slovakia and Hungary, but Brussels - and you haven't even handled the euro. They didn't give us anything. The Greek Prime Minister now won the elections again, and one electoral motto was that he would build a nearly 200-mile fence with Turkey. And, historically, Greece, Italy, Spain - all received billions of euros, even though the migration was organized by smugglers and it was illegal migration. And we accepted here, and right, refugees before the war - and the European Union didn't give us any money for that? You had to borrow for that? Then I don't understand why you didn't enforce it. Because it's just wrong and at least the European Commission should have paid us. Normally, she was supposed to pay for it, and you were supposed to fight together. But you didn't, and you finally borrowed it. You could've run Europe, you didn't do it. And in the end, it turned out the way it did. By the way, the Green Deal, the political agreement, that's when we agreed to use the core. And that each country will have its own way of achieving the emission targets. And it wasn't until your reign, Prime Minister, that detailed implementing climate legislation was addressed, the climate package Fit for 55 presented by the European Commission in the summer of 2021. [[16.30 hours]] And this is where the trouble and failure of your government of the five-calice came from, and the package was designed at a disadvantage for the Czech Republic. And that's where your government was supposed to be and, of course, as Prime Minister, you were supposed to be tough. And you did the opposite. You've supported everything, and you've gotten very little back in exchange. I mean, maybe just the free allowances for the heat plants, but I understand Topolánek is there, so I don't know what was there, what motivation. And that's it. It's not true that you had to stick to the boundaries that our government negotiated. There were no boundaries. It was just a political declaration, there was no commitment. You were supposed to continue in the set direction and ensure that Czech interests also got into implementing legislation, which did not happen, and quietly block the European Union for the necessary time. For example, how sanctions were imposed. That's what we would do. Most countries of the European Union hit the table from time to time - and it is not just Hungary, as they sometimes say. The difference is, those big states don't have to do it so loudly. Germany has also advocated support for its citizens and companies amounting to EUR 200 billion, although most of the European Union did not like it. Synthetic fuels, and of course that's nonsense, that's invention, because they don't even exist in the labs, so it actually went through because of the block of Germany. And you were supposed to insist on at least one of the consequences of that: ceiling emission allowances in time. And I said 30 euros in September 2021. Engage the opportunity to finance the core of the Modernization Fund. And none of it is. So what did your government do to reject or significantly change the package? Basically nothing, you went to the European Commission. Even Ursula von der Leyen praised the Czech Presidency for being good at climate policy. Yes, in time, when she was elected President of the European Commission, of course, the parliament was totally green. It's getting a little pale now, the green one. Some point out that the Green Deal needs to be re-evaluated fundamentally after Russia's aggression in Ukraine and in the context of what happened in this terrible war. You promised allowances - the result of the disaster. You've approved that there'll be fewer, so logically, there's a higher price. You did not ceiling the price, reserve - tool to correct the price of allowances applicable after six months of extremely expensive allowances. Industry will lose free allowances in exchange for the introduction of climate duty, which will rely on the truthfulness of certificates from third countries and for critical goods. Well, I wonder how this works. That's absolutely a chimera. And if, of course, they go against all of Asia, against China, India, Turkey, I don't know who, well, I wonder what it's gonna do if we're gonna get into some crazy business war. You have approved the introduction of a second family allowance market. So our people will pay allowances for families who drive and drown themselves. I don't understand why you've banned the sale of coal boilers now that you haven't banned production. They just forbid... It's not in the surrounding states. I don't get it. No combustion engines. You promised to reject him, yes, and then voted for him on the Ministerial Council. And I don't know if that Hubáčková girl had a mandate, but that's your responsibility. I know she didn't speak English, but whatever. Zajíček... Who actually had the results in the Presidency? Well, Zajíček, he was really the best official, and I'm not surprised that the President took him there, because he's actually a man who could certainly make a good foreign minister tomorrow, or your EU advisor. In March 2023 Ursula von der Leyen declared that nuclear energy was not strategic after achieving the EU's climate objectives. Well, that's unbelievable. How can he even say that? I don't understand why you didn't protest. The EU proposal, which identifies strategic technologies, even though the core is stated, will receive only partial benefits from the OZ. By the way, after your solar tunnel, it was Topolánkův's solar tunnel, which cost taxpayers 600 billion, so now people, companies invest in solariums just because they don't want to connect them. And also, if they're all connected, I wonder if the sun's gonna shine, what's it gonna do to the whole system. So I don't get it. I don't know how he dares say it at all. No way they're bureaucrats! The European Council is supposed to say, the clerk should be executing. Although I understand that the policy is that, before the Italian elections, Ursula threatened the Ital: you will choose Melonie, you will not get the money. Well, Orbán, we know, for me, it was a conflict of interest made up of course. They want to make all the decisions for us. And you were there to fight for our interests as sovereign prime minister of the Czech Republic. So it's unacceptable. Core development is part of an energy strategy. We've prepared Dukovany now, you're still doing it, that's great. Now I can think of another lie that was here in the media space of the media that's helping you, and that's that Havlíček supposedly had some weakness for Russia. He didn't have one. He didn't have one. Except the journalists won't write that Rosatom was in the Temelín tender finals, yes, respectable citizens, fellow citizens, Rosatom and Westinghouse. And you sat in that government with Mr. Stanjura. Yeah, so you guys let in the Russian supplier's finals. And here when my colleague Havlíček prepared the tender, we, yes, did a security audit. And the lies that somebody keeps repeating... The opposite is true. And we can talk here about our position towards Russia when, under our rule, we became the second-largest enemy in the United States. So it's the Presidency. I don't get it. I don't understand why you're afraid of Ursula, why you didn't promote our interests there. And, of course, this Timmermans, he's crazy, he wants to destroy Europe, he's crazy. And if he complimented you, too, then that's a complete disaster. So on June 27, 2022, Hubáčková raised her hand at the Council of Environment Ministers for specific proposals Fit for 55. Prohibition of combustion engines 2035, extension of emission allowances to households. This is all a negative impact. I don't know why we don't protest. And even the V4 you actually de facto broke, so how many V4s are making cars? With us, it's 1.5 million, Maďar, Slovák, they have even more. I don't know, now I'm gonna make up, maybe 5 million cars? And after all these years of investing billions in reducing consumption, reducing emissions, and achieving fantastic results, somebody's gonna come in and say -- over! I don't know, I've never heard of it, you've never said anything about it. And if Hubáčková screwed up, then you have the opportunity to fix it and put it on the agenda for the European elections. I'm sure we'll have it there. Why would anyone tell us we're supposed to only have cars here, electric cars? Why? The fact that in Mladá Boleslav - and we were there now - the whole leadership is German and ours is no longer there. And it probably doesn't bother anyone, what happens when - I hope it doesn't happen - it's abnormal. Then I read that China has substantially increased the export of electric cars. Well, their electric car is supposed to cost $700,000. I bought this Enyaq for 1.6. So half! Half. [[16.40 hours]] And, of course, what you negotiated there, the car emissions, so Fabie... They're not even gonna make it, it's gonna cost $200,000. And that's the impact on our people. And we have to defend ourselves. And unfortunately, you didn't use it. Destroying industry. After all, investors - why should they invest in the finals with us, if they don't even know what your strategy is, especially tax? But the others are gonna beat us. In Asia, they ask, what is your problem with energy? There's no problem in Asia. Under the Czech Presidency, under your Presidency, Prime Minister, which is once every 13 years, the agreement is disastrous. Prohibition of internal combustion engines since 2035. Expansion of emission allowances for households since 2027. Yes? That means a family house that drowns coal and gas, apartments that have gas boiler, personal cars for petrol and diesel. There's gonna be a fund. They're gonna split up again. Social-climatic. Yes. And industry will gradually lose free allowances. And, of course, there's a risk that some of the factories will leave. They'll go to Asia or the United States. In the framework of our Presidency and the energy crisis, you have failed to enforce the Iberian model, the ceiling on the price of gas for electricity production - that is what we have recommended. Spain did it, which is why they have the lowest inflation. And we get that windfall tax nonsense. You guys were talking about the energy board, how everything was gonna work out, how we all work together. I enjoyed the way some of your ministers said that if there was no gas, the Němec would shut down their factories and deliver to us. Oh, yeah! This is what I experienced in the fight for vaccines and protective equipment, as Angela was so sympathetic to us that she cut the Kurz and me, and it was not divided by the number of citizens, but by who was in the EPP and who was listening. So the Presidency did not contribute at all to building the core. And you've done almost nothing for it. Taxonomy? You're still showing that you are, yes, maybe you've continued. But it was for us. It was nights when the Austrian Prime Minister was still crying because I was just blocking it. And there's the fight - the fight for Czech interests. Our Presidency has just made a useful idiot to enforce the interests of the European Commission and Germany by simply failing to do so. Ursula complimented you. Yes, she had to kiss the ring in the European Parliament of the Greens, or they wouldn't have chosen it. That's the balance sheet. And of course it's wrong. I'm very interested in the article here, where there's an interview with Alexandr Vondra. The headline is: the European Commission has set us up. Common people will not have cars, says your MEP and probably your candidate's leader in the European elections. What does it say? The European Commission has recently presented a new regulation of cars known as the Euro 7 to be of general dismay. According to many critics, the introduction of this standard into practice would mean the destruction of the car as a means of transport for broad classes. One of them who claims this is Alexandr Vondra, the MEP for the ODS and the rapporteur for the European Parliament. In the second half of the interview, we discuss the future of V4, the organization that Vondra helped establish - well, imagine Václav Havel founded this - and against which the new president Petr Pavel recently defined himself, it says here. Question: You are a great opponent of the upcoming Euro 7 standard. What is it about her that bothers you the most? The European Commission has set us up. That's interesting. Then why did you let them screw you over? Its Vice-President for Green Deal Frans Timmermans - that's the lunatic, the normal lunatic that we, the four of us, prevented this person from becoming President of the European Commission, he should have become Borrell and done foreign things, where his character would be very useful. And Vice-President for Green Deal Frans Timmermans has repeatedly promised that if they pass zero CO2 limits on passenger cars in 2035 - yes, that is what you promised on December 19, 2021, on Sunday you promised it in the media and did not - so Euro 7 will be just a light version, says Mr Vondra. When he published it last November, it was all different, just not the light version. The proposal is very hard, it can have far-reaching consequences, not sometimes in ten years, but practically immediately. It's a car attack as such. The Czech Presidency, otherwise says successful - well, so is ODS, what should he say? - made one mistake when Secretary Hubáčková believed in the promise and let the CO2 limits pass in October. And you didn't give her a mandate to the government? For us ministers, when they went to Brussels, they had a mandate, the government had to approve their mandate. And the Zajíček had to sit there with her, or someone? There's no way Hubáčková could have done what she wanted. And I doubt she would negotiate with Timmermans. So she believed in the promise and had the CO2 limits approved in October in the trialogue. She was supposed to move it when we saw the Euro 7 proposal, and not let the Timmermans Timmermansův it. We can't just trust, we have to check. Oh, yeah. In particular, the European Union, where there is a brutal struggle. Everything in the EU is hard - you see, here it says - everything in the EU is hard trade. But you didn't understand it was a hard trade. We have to do the deal in the door and not let the door shut before we get the consideration. Right, you just didn't make it. So the European Commission is pushing for change? There's an editor here asking - Ondřej Šmigol, whatever his name is. And Mr Vondra answers: The Commission, Timmerman and then the Green Socialist coalition in the European Parliament - well, please, but with that you sit in the government, these are pirát, translated freely into Czech terms. But unlike decarbonization legislation, where the auto industry has submitted in advance, here its resistance is strong and hard. Those problems are three types. Firstly, the Euro 7 proposal refers to everything. For cars, vans, trucks and buses. Well, then nothing's gonna ride. Everything's being thrown together, which is nonsense, and it's causing trouble. Secondly, with regard to cars with an internal combustion engine, the proposal extends the requirements for reducing emissions other than CO2 and, above all, introduces their online monitoring of whether these standards are met in any conceivable driving situation. Leaded to absurdity, if someone takes the highway 200 kilometers per hour - that is only in Germany, perhaps not in our country - or if they exceed the speed allowed while increasing their emissions, it is a job for the police. Why should car manufacturers and drivers who drive properly pay for this? Right. Sure. Q: How is this online monitoring to take place? Using various software devices that would have to be installed in cars. Crazy! There's gonna be some stalking again. It will happen that due to the cost of installing the systems in the car factory, they will actually stop producing cheaper cars with internal combustion engines, with us typically Škoda Fabia. That's what I was talking about, that Skoda Fabia would get expensive, I don't know, some say 120,000, some say 200,000. And that's basically right now. Cars are openly threatening because they are unable to hide their costs in margins. For cars of higher category Škoda Kodiaq, which costs over a million, they are able to hide it because the customer doesn't really care if they pay $100,000 more. Therefore, they openly say that if Euro 7 enters into force as proposed, it will end the production of smaller cars not in 2035 but in 2025 or 2026. Yes? [[16.50 hours]] So when you let Timmermans fool you in the Presidency, yes, and luckily Sweden came after you, and then Mr Kupka started going on TV and saying how we're going to fight - but you were there for six months. You have absolutely not prepared for this, the Presidency! I mean, you guys had a huge advantage. That was Macron before you, wasn't it? He had several extraordinary European councils. You could have asked for a European Council. That's where you could have delivered it. You didn't do it. Macron has made his summit here in Prague. Everything's wrong. So Euro 7, I firmly believe, and I hope that now that you've screwed up, you'll just find an ally and that it won't happen because it would be a complete disaster. I posted one such comment here last time. The title is coal and gas as a public enemy. While the Ministry of Environment has been planning to ban the sale of coal stones from 2025, which supply hundreds of thousands of Czech households with cheap heat - I do not understand why, and you still want to ban coal before the Němec, for example. I don't understand at all! So Brussels bureaucrats want to ban gas boilers from 2029. So no coal boilers, no gas, I don't know if they're gonna ban the wood. All this at a time when there is still a smoldering energy crisis and the development of the war in Ukraine can be anything. So you also feel that Prime Minister Fiala's government and Brusel have completely lost their minds? The Ministry of the Environment wants to ban brown and black coal, anthracite, coke and coal castings. However, wood and coal offer the cheapest option of heating, which will cost less than CZK 50,000 per year, while for gas it is now about 80,000. But prices will rise jumpingly, and already in 2027 because of the Fialův Government, which in Brussels imposed emission allowances for households and passenger transport against the interest of the Czech Republic, which will in practice mean an increase in fuel, coal, gas, petrol and diesel prices, the Prime Minister promised to turn with allowances before the elections. But they quickly tamed the Prime Minister in Brussels. Even more stupid, otherwise it cannot be said, is the European Commission's proposed ban on gas boilers since 2029. As part of the holy campaign against everything that produces emissions, the Euro-Burocrats want to force people to buy so-called hybrid boilers, a gas boiler connected either to solar panels or to a heat pump. For such a boiler, the household will have to pay CZK 100,000, even more. Within the EU, there would be tens of millions of gas boilers that would have to be gradually replaced. Moreover, it would not be possible to install them in a number of buildings for technical reasons. And of course, no one even imagines how much noise especially in cities would produce so many heat pumps. When we were in government, we did not go in the form of bans and restrictions, but in the form of incentives. Yes, that's what we did. Boiler subsidies. We have launched a successful programme of boiler subsidies, where over 120,000 oldest and most polluting coal boilers of the first and second emission classes were replaced, often just for modern gas boilers. This significantly improved air quality in hundreds of municipalities in the heating season. Therefore, subsidy programmes should be continued for other types of solid fuel boilers of the third emission class, which are still around 200,000 in the Czech Republic. In addition, we also propose to support exchanges, yes, the subsidies that the Prime Minister does not like, but the subsidies were invented by Brusel, Brusel invented them, so you could have banned them when they bothered. And I can still think of it as part of the tax package, you're talking about canceling some subsidies, but no one ever knew what they were like. You might as well make that public. So we propose subsidies to support the exchange of older gas boilers for new condensing or heat pumps. But an absolute ban on the sale of modern coal or even gas condensing boilers is an ill-conceived stupidity that will reduce competition on the market, raise prices, and bring people down on living standards. I'm bohužel so. Poverty. These two pointless bans just underline why next year we should wipe out green fanatics in European institutions in the euro elections and, of course, go to government in 2025 and put our country back in order. So that was the comment. And now for the pensions. About us, the Prime Minister repeatedly says that we are populists and extremists and I do not know what everything, and the ANO movement has always been on the side of social justice and social reconciliation. I can't help wondering how on TV, the union president actually gives a dirty thank-you to the Minister of Finance for accepting it. They yelled at me with Little Maláčová and he said, "Yeah, thank you, you'll accept me?" That's amazing. That's amazing! Look at the tripartite in there. One left, he's got a couple of buses and trucks, and now someone else came in. That's the Union of Industry that oversaw when Lakshmi Mittal pulled 52 billion dividends out of the New Hut, and no one cared. A new hut. And now he's presiding over the apartments Bakala stole from the miners. So these are the modern-day representatives of the Union of Industry. And there's a politician behind the ODS behind the Chamber of Commerce, but the Czech Television is no longer writing to him by the ODS, so we know how it all goes... So it's all here. It's covered, they have everything, so tripartite - they crushed us there and we acknowledged it. And especially thanks to Dáša Žitníková, who was fierce, and we always agreed, the paramedics got so much money. Yes. And we worked. Here's the serven tripartite. They can see what this government is doing, but it's gonna go on, the press releases and the amazing and so on. Very well, then, that we can point it out and protest. And protest. So, about the pensions. Yes, we are populists if you want, because we perceive the demands of people who disagree with the government. Study it in Wikipedia. A populist is not a negative word. Peuple, that's French for the people. So, yes, we're here for the people. They can all laugh, and that's how it was. The YES movement has always been there for the people. And we were mostly available to everyone. I'm supposed to be getting some kind of meeting with some minister today... I answered everyone's texts. Everyone texted me, we handled it on the phone, and this arrogant government doesn't really deal with it, but they love it. I understand because they're fighting it. You won't be nice, you won't get a donation, the unions. By the way, I was just thinking about how I was in Lysá nad Labem on Natura Viva, and there was no minister there. [[17,00 hours]] Fishermen, no, they're gonna... I was there with Professor Adámková, she's a hunter, a conflict of interest, she shoots the animals, I pet them. It doesn't matter. So the fishermen are gonna plant $250 million worth of fish, and they're gonna eat the otters and the cormorants for $100 million, or whatever it is. Well, then, chasing, somebody lobbying again to make the chase smaller, some lobbying again. Bees. Normally, they took their money. Gardeners, they're lucky I passed the law of gardeners here. When Mrs. Richterová trained us from the covide, I'm saying, please, let's go deal with the gardening law. So you have to ask them here, too. No one's talking to them. There was some political deputy from the Ministry of Agriculture, and so was Mrs. Kovářová. But they just don't give a shit about them. So we had a different approach. We were there for the people, we were there for everyone, we tried and we also had some results, and we are proud to have improved people's standard of living. And unfortunately, we couldn't keep doing that. And of course, we always had our pensioners, single mothers and disabled citizens in mind. So if they're taking money back to the elderly, if they don't want to give a care allowance, that's a real disaster. So our goal has always been, is and will show respect for old age and support those who have been neglected by traditional parties in the past. Under our governments, therefore, we increased pensions so that our seniors had a dignified life, and that was our priority. And by the way, this government has no number in the program. We had a teacher's salary, we had numbers. I like numbers. They don't have a number. They always have - if the financial situation allows it. That's what they got there. There's nothing there. So we care about our seniors having a dignified life. I consider it absolutely scandalous that it was actually said here that - I don't know, even an official couldn't think of it, or the Minister of Finance invented it - that pensioners are economic damage. Economic damage. So our pensioners are an economic loss to this government. That's like incredible. How can they even talk about the people who built this country, our country, how can they even talk about them and treat them and so on? We wanted our seniors to have a dignified life, which is why we reduced our VAT to drugs, increased our pensions. They were happy with the discounts. There were incredible stories where the grandmother didn't visit her granddaughter in South Bohemia because she just didn't have a ticket. And this is all over, and of course it's wrong. We've fulfilled our vows to seniors in our government, and since this government -- in fact, the main enemy is our government, so everything we've done, they're trying to liquidate it. We have also strengthened support for disabled citizens, increased care allowance, increased parental allowance to 300 000, from 220 to 300. And we had 400,000 in the program. And after - I don't know how many there are, 550 days this government is there, and eventually the Prime Minister will say after a year and a half that I guess so. A year and a half. And each side says something different. So we don't really know what's being proposed. We have provided support for foster parents, introduced replacement maintenance for single parents, ended institutional care for the smallest children, removed the period of registration for employees and introduced electronic incapacity. And, of course, even when the pandemic came, we managed to maintain poverty and unemployment rates as one of the lowest levels in the whole of the European Union. Yes, about the fact that we were handing over healthy finances - and by the way, I forgot that I was actually at Xaver's today, and I promised him that I would tell him here on the microphone that I actually showed this graph to him for the first time, so look at my interview with Xaver on the radio, I know he's not popular with the mainstream, but at least they let me talk to Moravc, that's unnecessary, and on Prima it was like when I wanted to respond, there was another question, but good. [[shows up in the hall]] Well, we're, and I'm gonna say it again, 21 handed over to the country like this - inflation 5.4 percent, sixth least indebted, ninth most prosperous, real wage growth 8.2 percent, and tax cuts of 504 billion and 229 billion to health care, and Mr. Kupka had 300 kilometers of highways and bypasses ready, so let's hope Mr. Stanjura doesn't take his money. So when I compare here, the government of Petr Fiala inflation 16.5 now, the third highest in Europe, we are indebting the fastest when they promised not to fall to eighth place, the prosperity index falling by three places to the 12th, the biggest decline in real wages from OECD countries, the plan to raise VAT, aqueous, flow, heat, medicines and more. Just what people need. Unavailable drugs and so on. So these are numbers. This is Eurostat, this is the Czech Statistical Office. And we're, yes, we've all forgotten how we started in 2014, where the Prime Minister says it was socialist or I don't know what it was, and Mr. Jurečka was there with us when we did everything. And it was our movement that really raised pensions and salaries, and not just before the elections, but throughout our time of action, we were doing the numbers. And this government simply has nothing. By the way, even then, over 85 years of age, we increased pensions by CZK 1,000 a month. [[Over]] In December 2020, due to the impact of the covid, we gave each senior a one-time contribution of CZK 5 000. So in the government, we tried to correct old-fashioned injustices. 2019 we increased the basic pension ratio from 9 to 10 percent of the average wage, which meant more money for people with low pensions. And we introduced it educationally. And now you want to take it all away from the elderly. And I'm fascinated by the way Minister Jurečka was showing a graph here, I don't know, by 2050. After all, the Ministry of Finance is now presenting a draft budget for 2024 and a view of 2026. So who knows what's going to be 27, 28, 29 and so on? Why can anyone say that? We had a surplus pension account for two years. And when we finished, the result was almost even. So I'm just fascinated by the fact that when someone accuses us of doing that, and that's what the media is saying, of course, because the media are on the side of a five-wheeler, and when I find it here... So here's our program, about the pension reform. Some say we've made a commitment to pension reform. No, we had in the programme: we will set up an expert working team for pension reform, which will evaluate the current proposals, current situation and expected development and submit a proposal for solutions that will preserve existing claims, define the standard of area security in the old age on the principle of solidarity, strengthen the principle of merit and motivate people of active age to take advantage of supported forms of individual security for old age. [[17.10 hours]] Yes, that's what we did. Well, Mrs. Nerudová became the president. We had no idea it was actually a presidential campaign. And now the Prime Minister says we didn't do anything. Minister Jurečka says he wants to build on the results of this commission, where, by the way, there were all parties. And the Prime Minister of the Commission criticizes us, of course, because right now she needs to grab some office somewhere, since she failed as president. So I don't understand. So don't tell me that we promised - yes, at some point I thought it could be done, but when I wanted an explanation from my colleague Maláčová to explain to me the pension reform where the income is, because everyone's spending, well, she wasn't capable, neither was Mrs Nerudová. So they were there. Mr. Jurečka says it's great that you're going to continue. The coalition of SPOLU has a link to the average wage. Not bad, guaranteed, but there must be a guarantee that the wages will go up. So that's still the misinformation in the media space. And, of course, when the media keeps telling you and recording it to you, it's hard to keep telling the truth. So the parental contribution, I wonder how it's gonna turn out. You took the fare discount. The interesting thing is that now you want to cancel the inflation clause. And I want to ask the Prime Minister why he didn't cancel the church? Why do churches get billions out of inflation there? Well, you take it away from the elderly, and they get tens of billions extra. And those old-timers who built our country, you want to take it away from them. So that seems unfair to me. It is wrong, and I hope that you will take the side of justice and dignity for our pensioners and that you will not keep taking money from them because they simply do not deserve it. Well, before I went to Partie against the Prime Minister, I got a letter from an old man here. He wanted me to read it. So obviously there wasn't room, but here I'll read it to you so you know how our pensioners are, what the situation is: Hello, Mr. Babiš. You don't know how worried I am about this bunch of chaotic socials getting to the government. - All right, sociál, yes, I'm sorry, I'm just quoting. - In December I will have my 60th birthday and since I have problems with my back and overall movement apparatus, but it is not for a disability pension again, so I saw as the only way out of this situation that in August I will apply for early retirement from 27 December. You can't imagine how the world collapsed when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka climbed out with a set of bullying changes in parameters for early retirement. Instead of 35 years worked, equal to 40, by changing the coefficient for even greater reduction of pre-time pensions, by stopping valorisation for an early period. But the worst - instead of the current five years of prematureness for just three years. But the worst of it is the rapid and unexpected entry into force right over the course of the year from month to month from September this year. At the same time, in March, they assured citizens that the upcoming reform would in no way affect people 50 plus, because the changes to the pension system must be ahead of schedule in order to prepare people. And the greatest demographic surge will not begin until someday. Suddenly, they quietly approve essentially abolishing early pensions. Yes, at first Mr. Jurečka challenged, now it looks like he's doing everything he can to not give them. At the end of the year, they urged people - yes, it says here - to apply for early retirement, or at least speculative fixation of pension calculation, because it is advantageous. And to further increase the attractiveness of pension mainly for women and since January he has started training for 20 billion a year in order to engulf the Czech Social Security Administration even more. Now that they've seen what he's done, and they've all applied for early retirement, they're gonna throw a few hundred fresh 60s that they're gonna ask for from September to the end of the year, like this unexpectedly and socially overboard. A bit of a problem is that this brutally discriminated against is a relatively small group of people, because those who are 60 by September are lucky to still make it. For those of you who are 58, they may hope that when you return to government, you will again humanize this antisocial swine to the new 60s. For those who will be 60 from January 1st, it's also a terrible blow, but they probably expected the government to make all the changes worse since the New Year. Well, we're happy that Mrs Nerudová said it to the fullest, that, in fact, because of the presidential election, everyone looked amazing and then - I actually said it in advance. Unlike all their package cuts and changes that are reversible and correct in the future, this discrimination against the current 59-year-olds will destroy their lives irreparably and lifelessly. I was just wondering how great it would be for people to switch ministries. Passive Minister Válek for - Mrs Černochová has already left - to go to health care. - That's what I'm talking about. If she was in the health department, there'd be a lot of money. Radek greets you and sends you a topic for a few questions about Mr. Fiala on a serious subject. So if you could use any of these questions to get him into trouble - but the Prime Minister has it rehearsed, he keeps repeating it for ten years, the untruths - I'll be glad. One. What are 60 - year - old seniors supposed to do, who no longer have health problems and can no longer cope with work, but it's not enough to grant a disability pension? Two. Does the government realize that employers usually prefer younger, faster and healthier people than 60-year-olds? Three. Why do the most expensive fighters have overlimit BVP and unlimited aid to Ukraine and 60 people will pay for life? Moreover, even after the government's incompetence devalues their largest megainflation pension savings by 30% in two years. Four. The increase in pension costs is true in absolute terms, but there is no extraordinary increase in expenditure in real billions after counting mega-inflationary depreciation. It's just compensation for unsolved inflation. Five. Pensions are not the government's charity, but people have to pay social security all their lives to be retired. And it is unacceptable that the government, in such a arbitrary and rapid way, parametrically cancels the possibility of early retirement. Six. Does the government think that a five-year early pension is so high under the current favourable conditions that calculation coefficients need to be changed? Seven. An early pension does not mean an increased cost to the State in the longer term, as a life-long pension is paid significantly lower than a regular pension. Eight o'clock. Is the government's aim to create a distrust of the state and the pension system with these rapid and unthinkable pension changes and to create a new group of seniors absolutely without collateral? That's the question. Then I got here a background from the former Senior Council official, who writes: Recently, politicians of the government coalition of Prime Minister Fiala have been feeding the Czech public false data on the standard of living of Czech seniors. At the same time, they use them as an argument for the established restrictions of modest setting of the Czech pension system. To promote objectivity, I present a brief overview of basic data on the standard of living of Czech seniors. The average old-age pension as at 31 January 2023 was 19 438, on 1 June 2023 20 192. At the end of the year, it will be 20 292. - Well, that's a hundred. So the 7,000 is gone. [[17.20 hours]] Early retirement pensions, loss of employment or care for a person close to them are the main reasons for leaving for early retirement pensions. In 2022 the number of early retirement pensions increased year-on-year from 555 728 to 561 849, which is 6 121 beneficiaries. Out of the total number of solo pensions, the early retirement pension was 31.5% and out of the total number of all old-age pensions was 23.7 %. The average amount of early retirement pension permanently reduced was 2 881 lower than the average amount of old-age pension. Extraordinarily valorization of pensions to 1. 6. 2023. High month-on-month consumer price inflation of the Czech Statistical Office for January 2023 surprised the government of the Czech Republic. - Well, I don't know, they had to count on it. - The CPI consumer price index, general inflation, has risen by an incredible 6 percentage points per month and the pensioner's cost of living index, inflation measured by the retirement consumer basket, even by 8.6 percentage points per month. In the long-term history of Czechoslovakia, after all, the Czech Republic, so high intermonth inflation never occurred. This is the result of an uncontrolled energy crisis by the government of the Czech Republic and related increases in basically all sectors of the Czech economy. The situation in the surrounding countries was not so dramatic. According to the original diction of Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on pension insurance, the old-age pension should have been increased by 11.5 percentage points, which for the average old-age pension should have been CZK 1,771. To the great regret of the beneficiaries of old-age, invalidity and survivors' pensions, pensions were increased by an order of less, namely for the average old-age pension there was an increase of only CZK 754, which is CZK 1 017 less. That means more than 7,000 this year and more years. Of course. This money will be missing especially in 2024, when valorisation will be very low and inflation will still be high according to forecasts. Valorisation of old-age pensions on 1 January 2024. Due to the extraordinary valorisation of pensions as at 1. 6. 2023 and, in particular, because of the lack of possibilities of increasing real wages growth, which fell by 7,5 percentage points in 2022 - but according to Eurostat 8.5 - the annual growth index of pensioners' life costs has been revised since the last measurement, this is for February to June 2023, plus half of real wages for 2022, will be the annualisation of old-age pensions on 1 January as well as under the current diction of Act No. 155/1995 very low. According to a qualified estimate, the monthly inflation data for May and June 2023, which will be due to the valuation of pensions on 1 January 2024 will be between CZK 120 and 250 for the average old-age pension. High inflation, which is forecasted for the first half of 2024, is a completely insufficient increase in pensions. In relation to the economically active part of the population, the situation will change, real wages will rise and real pensions will fall between 2024 and 2025. Cargo ratio. Measured according to international standards, the relation of the average retirement pension solo to the average nominal gross wage reached the social status of the Czech old-age pensioners compensation ratio in 2022 43 %. Thus, not 45 percent, as published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In the first quarter of 2023, the compensation ratio amounted to 47 percent, and for the whole of 2023, it will be 45.5%, not 50 percent, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has published, and the Prime Minister and other politicians of the government coalition are constantly declaring. In a historical context, the compensation ratio was even higher between 1989 and 1993. From an international point of view, the Czech Republic is in this indicator in the lower half of the European Union - says a former member of the Council of Seniors. So these are the numbers. And it's important that this opinion gets public too. Now for the so-called reform. That's no reform. The government's pension reform has a number of problems that only degrade it to a political declaration without proper economic justification. Even some of the provisions are mutually exclusive, but no one cares. First case. The pension age will gradually increase according to the principle of 21.5 years on average spent in retirement according to the expected survival data. People should always be 15 years ahead of schedule to be sure when they can retire. This claim is completely out of reality. What's the current status? According to the statistical yearbook of pension insurance in 2021, the average period of retirement pension in 2021 for men is 18,88 years and for women 28,07 years. Thus, the average is 23.92 years - and is falling in recent years. Why is that? In the past, women could retire at the age of 57, it was still an old regulation from the socialism era, and for each child born, their retirement period was reduced by one year, and for each child, but not more than three years. I mean, a lot of women retired when they were 55 years old. According to the pension scheme of 2016, the retirement age of women is uniting with men and is to be achieved by uniting the retirement age in 2030 to 65 years. But, of course, we will see what this government will come up with. Women who have retired in the past therefore make up a large part of the set of pensioners, and therefore the length of women's pensions is so different from men. However, this will be removed quite quickly with the exit of this part of the population. Besides, this yearbook also lists the age of retirement. It is different from the age of life, i.e. it will be predicted for people 50 years of age, as the proposed proposal considers. This age of retirement is always predicted only for a group of those who have reached retirement age. In the meantime, those who died before reaching retirement age reduced the average age of this group. Simply put, those who have reached the retirement age have a better chance of living longer than those who have not reached that age. It's more complicated than that, but in a very simple way, it's like this. The age of life for pensioners, i.e. for those who lived to retire, was therefore 79,6 years for men in 2021 and 83.73 years for women and more stagnating in recent years, the average age of life was 81.86. It should be added that the average life expectancy in recent years is no longer growing compared to developments in previous years. In 2010, the average age for men was 78.5 years, for women the average age for women was 81.49 years in 2010. For both groups, the average age of survival has not increased in the last few years and has basically stagnating. Jurečka's proposal is therefore complete nonsense, Mr. Minister. According to statistics, in 2021, for people who are 50 years old, there is a chance of living another 26.2 years for men, and women are 31.8 years old. For men 26 and women 31.8. The proposed proposal envisages that pensions will receive an average of 21.5 years - that is the revolutionary proposal. So at the age of 50 in 2021, a man should learn that he will live another 26.2 years, and since he should receive a pension of 21.5 years, he can retire when he is 26.2 minus 21.5, that means 4.7 to enjoy it. According to this stupid proposal, it's likely that women would retire longer than men at the age of 60. It would be true for women - in 50 years there is hope of living 31.8 years. So 31.8 minus 21.5 10.3 years. So women would retire at the age of 60. [[17.30 hours]] To this calculation it is possible to add that the setting of this limit of 21.5 years itself is pointless. Apparently, it is expected that retirement periods will self-destruct to this limit, today's 23.92 years. But that won't take long, maybe within five or seven years, because women who prolong pension periods will die, unfortunately. It is also clear that this reduction in pension periods will continue. This is inevitable due to the nature of this set, because women enter this set at an increasingly older age and their age of survival does not substantially increase. Moreover, the idea that a person should receive a quarter of his life is excluded with the idea of extending retirement. If people were to retire at the age of 68 and, at the same time, they had a quarter of their lives to receive a pension, then the average age of the Czech population would have to increase to over 90 years. Such an average age of inhabitants is not yet in any country in the world, nor will it be for the nearest century. The longest average age is Japan - 84, Switzerland and Spain in Europe - 83. If the government's proposed calculation for retirement age were to apply, the retirement limit would be less than 60. So what's the deal? From this fundamental problem, which eliminates each other, it is contrary to each other, then another one emerges. It must be added that in the presentation presented by the MPSV at the tripartite meeting on 15 May, the proposal no longer appears from the age of 21.5 years. However, there is talk of establishing an automatic mechanism for increasing the retirement age if there is an extension of the life span. How many years will be disputed then, it is not mentioned anywhere. The second proposal states: It will be possible to leave early retirement after at least 40 years of insurance. People who have paid their insurance for at least 45 years will be relieved of early retirement. Social insurance applies to persons from 18 years of age. The time of preparation for the profession shall be calculated. Insurance, i.e. if people pay insurance, may first go into early retirement at the age of 58, but if they have paid insurance up to 63 years of age, then their early retirement will be reduced less. The purpose of this regulation is not clear enough because it clearly allows for early retirement at the age of 58, but it is not clear how much it reduces its pension. This Regulation does not make much sense unless it is accompanied by a calculation of savings. In his presentation, the MPSV also complains that in a group of 20 to 24 years of age, only around 45 percent of people are economically active today, on the other hand, 70 percent 20 years ago. This is the result of the abolition of schools and the efforts to give each university education. It is then difficult to achieve a minimum insurance period of 45 years for early retirement. Third draft. People who have not completed 35 years of insurance will be able to apply for a pension two years after the proper term of retirement age if they have paid for at least 30 years of insurance. They couldn't have done it until five years later. It's basically a technical problem. If the threshold for retirement was 68 years, as originally suggested by the MPSV, then it means retirement at 70 years. Once again, without counting the benefits, it's hard to judge. As both of these regulations will be interpreted in the context of a flexible retirement limit, it is a big question. Fourth draft. People in physically demanding professions will be able to retire sooner, but employers will have to pay more for them on insurance. There's still work to be done on the list of professions. Many have already been written about this problem. The biggest reservations may be that the increased contribution will be integrated into the ongoing pension scheme. Does this mean that it will also be consumed in a given year, or will it be registered and separated from the interim system? Isn't it possible to spend these higher contributions to the pension fund in a given year and then, when the insured person goes into early retirement, as a future pension, to finance from the contribution to other pensions? This would only be possible if these other pensions were properly reduced. The pension scheme, or the social insurance scheme, must be prepared to register these future early retirement obligations for demanding professions. Such increased contributions should therefore be charged separately, outside the current system. With the introduction of an early retirement scheme of this type in which all pension rights are maintained and paid at the same amount as if retirement had taken place within the statutory period, a special pension fund must be created at the same time. This special fund will concentrate higher contributions, or more precisely the difference between a proper contribution according to the level of the insured person's salary and a higher contribution established for demanding professions. It is quite clear that the introduction of an early retirement option without shortening the pension scheme puts an element of capital appreciation of pension entitlements into the system of ongoing pension financing and should therefore be separated from the system of ongoing pension financing. Of course, there is still a problem with the flexible retirement date. That's just gonna keep this system off the charts. It is not well enough to record increased employers' contributions, current as future commitments, while operating everything within the current system. [[unintelligible]] Moreover, there is still a problem that the government has not yet concluded: the range of professions will increase pressure to expand this file. In addition, there is also a substantial reduction in the number of years to be worked out in order to achieve early retirement. Only 10 years shall be counted retroactively, the maximum reduction in the number of years for the period worked is at most 1.5 years. The original idea that every 10 years of profession will be projected within one year of the decline in retirement age has clearly fallen. Fifth draft. The guaranteed pension is expected to reach 20 per cent of the average wage, 10 per cent of which will be the basic part, for another 10 per cent the contribution will be raised. It's supposed to help the people with the lowest of the pennies. This proposal, which in itself is little clear, can probably be interpreted as follows: Another 10 per cent of the average wage will be added to the guaranteed pension of 10 per cent of the average wage. [[10 %]] At present, this so-called guaranteed pension would be CZK 8 080 when the tenth of the average wage is CZK 4 040 or CZK 4 100. This is Mrs Nerudová's handwriting from the last pension reform, where she thought it was necessary to increase as much as possible low pensions as possible to those who did not pay social security or only a minimum of insurance. The fundamental problem is that if minimum pensions are raised, what will happen to higher pensions? It's also going to increase at one time. The MPSV presentation states that other pensions will not change, which will lead to a weakening of merit again. That's a major problem. If people pay insurance, they should receive a pension equivalent to their contribution. This proposal is aimed at increasing the lowest pensions while leaving the higher pensions unchanged, i.e. moving towards a single pension scheme for all regardless of the amount of the social security contribution. In such a system, it will be easy to deal with valorisation because it will be able to limit itself properly. Everyone's pension will be increased by the same amount and done. This single pension scheme for each pensioner is a long-term declared objective of the ODS. It cannot be excluded that this proposal will not appear again, because even so the new system may be deficit-free. [[discovers?]] He also means a reduction in social security, especially on the employers' side, a reduction in the price of work, after which the business sector calls so much and what SPOLU has in the program, they have 2% there, but they forgot about it. A single pension opens up the possibility of having two sources of old-age pension - the first to be from a state-owned system with a relatively low pension, the second to be a capital insurance pension, which everyone negotiates separately. This will develop a business of tens only later hundreds of billions a year for all capital groups operating on our market. In the next proposal, there is also an increase in pensions for persons who receive a pension and are still working. It is also argued that today it means an increase in pension by 80 crowns - they have apparently taken it from the arguments YES - although the increase in 80 crowns is only about average income, and if income is higher, then the increase in pension is higher, it is exactly 0.4 percent of the calculation base. Another proposal is to increase the bonus discount, but it is not known how. I would remind you that the YES proposal was to increase 1.5 percent of the pension base. Another option is the proposal to reduce insurance premiums for such a person and also for the self-employed. I expect that such a reduction would also involve a reduction in the employer's premiums. The presentation of the MPSV on tripartite shows that some nonsense may have been abandoned, but some others may be hidden in specific calculations, but above all, there are no specific data that passes through various graphs without background data. Now I would like to comment on pensions on 30 April of this year and there is information on the management of the Czech Social Security Administration agenda. He's picking up status as at 31. 3. 2023 and at the same time compares this condition with data for the previous years 2022 to 2018, the status always at the end of the year. [[2002?]] [[17.40 hours]] Data on the development of the agenda for old-age pensions can be considered to be the most interesting. The number of pensioners is constantly falling. At the end of April 2023 it reached 2,838 000 people, at the end of 2018 it was 2,896 000. About 100,000 retired persons living abroad must be added to this. The number of old-age pensions paid at the end of 2018 was 2,410,000, of which the early pensions were 630,000, and at the end of April 2023 the old-age pensions were 2,359,000 and the early 691,000. These figures clearly show that the government and the MPSV consistently lie about the growth of pensions and so on, none of which is happening in practice. Well, the fact that they lie about everything, we know that. These figures include an increase in the number of early pensions, which effectively reduces the number of pensions. If the number of early pensions remained at 2018 level, the decline in the number of pensions paid would be even higher by 60,000. Early pensions have only one effect: they reduce the future amount of the pension paid because a reduction is applied to the calculation. It is also visible in the growth of early pensions the manipulation of Minister Jurečka, calling for people to go into early retirement. Whether it was in favour of proving the growth of the number of pensions paid, and therefore properly support pension reform in quotation marks, which is not a reform, and then create the ground for reducing valorisation, it is hard to say. Anyway, it was stupid. The reduction in the number of pensions paid for this period represents almost 90 000, and that is in the financial statement, when we think about about CZK 200,000 per year per average pension, around 18 billion per year the decline in payout, without valorisation under otherwise the same conditions. The failure of the Czech Social Security Administration to manage and grant old-age pensions is absolutely essential. According to the data provided, the number of applications received does not significantly exceed the 2018 and 2019 situation in recent months. In 2018, 199 000 applications were accepted and 30,000 remained unfinished. 213 000 applications were accepted in 2019 and 40,000 remained unfinished. In 2022 225 000 applications were accepted and 95 000 remained pending within 90 days of the application. And even worse is the development in 2023: by the end of April, the number of pending applications increased to 102 000. This means that the Czech Social Security Administration is able to process the number of applications that correspond to the new applications submitted. They are unable to reduce the number of pending applications. For 2018 and 2019 only 2,2 per cent and 1,2 per cent of the applications submitted remained pending within 90 days. In 2020, it was 17 percent, i.e. each fifth application was not made on time. How is it possible that in 2018 and 2019 such a number of applications were able to be processed in a timely manner? The only explanation is that at the time people who knew what they were doing had the ability to do so. Today, compared to the situation in 2018 and 2019, they are clearly unable to take the necessary measures to improve the organisation of work, increase performance and so on. Of course, someone should run it, not just to satisfy themselves that I'm going to switch directors, but to go out in the field. It is undoubtedly the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which the personnel development of the Czech Social Security Administration cannot handle, political nominees were delivered there without the necessary experience. So unfortunately from June 1st, it's actually from Children's Day, the government of Petr Fiala has begun to rob our pensioners. Every day, by law, they were to get 33 more crowns, which means 1,000 crowns a month. But, of course, the government regulates the law as it needs to be. I'm so curious about how the Constitutional Court will decide, and hopefully... And it's a shame that the president didn't veto it, although he himself actually confirmed that it wasn't conformary to the constitution, and that if the ANO movement hadn't filed a constitutional complaint that he would have done it himself. I don't understand. It's too bad. In conclusion, I just want to repeat the things that the Prime Minister will undoubtedly be repeating shortly and which are false, okay? So one more time. It is not true that Czech finances, that we are in danger of bankruptcy. It's not true. 40,4 - 2013 vláda of Nečasův. [[He's showing the materials.]] The Prime Minister was sitting there with Mr. Stanjura. We're down to 30, covid, we're up to 42. That means we're done - and we've given people money - lower than what Nečasův' government gave us, where the Prime Minister was sitting. So that's the first thing. Scaring people through bankruptcy so the government can take their money. Inflation. I've explained it here. I think it has logic. Energy, of course. Total failure. And most importantly, the problem is that now the five-callice here again wants to take money from the elderly, take it and change the pension calculation system, which, of course, they're going to lose money again. They took away their fare discount, increased their VAT, of course everything about them, and so on. So it would be good for the Prime Minister to intervene and stop repeating things that are false. If you were taking care of your income, if you hadn't canceled the EET, if you were drawing money, if you were actually saving money, because you wouldn't be saving, if you were investing, you would have an even higher GDP. So these are all measures, and our shadow government has put forward a very specific plan to deal with this. I'm sorry that we're not listening and that you're probably going to repeat the untrue things again, but unfortunately, we're used to it. But I don't know, maybe you'll change your mind, or you'll come to it, and you'll hand it over to someone who actually manages it, decides, gives homework. I understand it's hard in a five-wheel drive. But you had your constituents, you made a promise, and you just don't do it, and it's obvious. I don't understand why you don't apologize, why you don't tell people why you don't deal with it in some way, and you keep repeating the untruths. I suppose now that you're getting off, I'm going to write down all the untruths that, unfortunately, you keep repeating over and over again. Well, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. And another with priority rights is the Prime Minister Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I will disappoint President Andrej Babiš, who said that I will repeat some truths here about how it looks with our budget, how it looks with energy security and other things that our government has dealt with and dealt with successfully and had to deal with them after the previous government has done nothing about it. [[Untruths?]] But I'm not doing it. I'm not going to continue this debate on Prima that we had and where you probably didn't say everything you could have said, or maybe you didn't, because I would have responded to it, to the untruths and nonsense that you've been talking about right now, which, of course, I could have. But we're here at a meeting that's about a government proposal amending the Pension Insurance Act. This is a debate that is extremely important to the Czech Republic, and this is a matter that I will also pursue. [[17.50 hours]] So far, we've heard a lot of different things in the speeches we've been doing so far about the budget. But I have noticed that Mrs Schillerová is confusing the budget with the National Recovery Plan, because that is what we discussed in the previous government. I have heard some of the things that the YES movement would like to do again, so I understand that your current proposals, which would increase any deficit by CZK 250 billion, add about another CZK 200 billion, which you would continue to owe the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I have also heard really personal, and I think that very undignified, insults to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who, for example, deals with the debt service costs, which was also said here, which was caused by his predecessor, among other things, by accepting disadvantageous short-term loans, even though experts warned her about it. Yes, the experts who have also been questioned x-times here, as well as the media. Because anyone who has a different opinion and who shows what the government of Andrej Babiš has failed in and in which it has led us to the enormous problems that our government must face, so they are all people paying, biased, stupid and so on. I don't want to repeat everything that's been said here. Perhaps some things are good that the public has heard. For example, we have heard in one sentence that our government is using or is continuing, it just goes on with the transport constructions that your government has prepared to hear in the next sentence that it is a shame that we are not continuing the constructions that your government has prepared and why we are not doing it and so on. I think anyone who's listened to it will have their own opinion on it. But I will show the public the value of the information and the claims that the ANO representatives have made here, and now, for the last time, President Andrej Babiš, on one single example. That's Green Deal, and that's emission allowances. We've heard a lot about this here, and let's look at the simple facts. The facts are this: achieving climate neutrality was transferred to the legal framework of the European Union through the European legal framework for the climate on which there was agreement in European institutions in June 2021 - who ruled in June 2021 in the Czech Republic? - and became a legal obligation. The Czech Republic supported the adoption of the general approach and the final legal framework for the climate. It was the government of Andrej Babiš. Previously, the political commitment to climate neutrality in 2050 contained in the Green Agreement for Europe was adopted by the European Council in December 2019. Yes, it was not used when unanimity could be used. Who was a member of the European Council for the Czech Republic then? Andrej Babiš. But it's all well-known. I'm going to remind you of one more thing that relates directly to the emission allowances. I don't want to get into this argument yet, I said I wouldn't do it. After all, mixing decisions where you have unanimity, with decisions where there is a majority, and where you can only negotiate improvements to some pre-established conditions, it only shows the lack of orientation in European politics, which led to the government of Andrej Babiš being unable to negotiate anything for Czech citizens. This was also shown in the commentary on Eura 7, where this proposal is actually being dealt with by our government, created a coalition for it, and it can modify this proposal. But back to those emission permits. When the proposal for the extension of emission allowances came, the government of Andrej Babiš was in power in the Czech Republic and accepted the framework position for emission allowances. It was October 2021. What do they say in the framework position? Those are facts that anyone can verify. The Czech Republic considers the revision of the EU ETS Directive, i.e. emission allowances, to be an important part of the Fit for 55 package. In the opinion of the Czech Republic, the basic principles of the proposal, namely the extension of emission allowances to other areas, are a good basis for further discussion in the Council of the EU and in the European Parliament... A little further. The Czech Republic considers the EU ETS, the new proposal for emission allowances, as the main tool for reducing emissions and switching to carbon neutrality by 2050. It therefore supports its adjustment in order to achieve a net emission reduction of 55 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990, along with the setting of further legislation in the European Union package. This is the position of the Government of Andrej Babiš, with whom she performed in the Czech Republic and with whom she mainly dealt in the European Union. Those are facts that can be verified and anyone can verify. So here you are, Prime Minister Babiš, just doing what you've been doing for years. You were here at home against the European Union and you stood up as a fighter, but in the European Union, whether out of ignorance, disorientation, or simply for other reasons, you agreed everything and you didn't negotiate anything for Czech citizens. Our government doesn't progress in this way. We've been able to revise a number of things you've done wrong. We managed to negotiate a record amount of extra money because we didn't agree with this positive position of yours on emission permits. In the framework of the Modernization Fund, we have implemented an increase of CZK 400 billion in allocation for the Czech Republic. Our negotiators have also succeeded in promoting that heat plants in the Czech Republic will receive 30% of freely allocated allowances, and we have also managed to achieve conditions that will prevent a dramatic increase in the price of the emission allowance through strengthening the market stability mechanism. So we have corrected the clearly positive approach to emission allowances approved by your government in October 2021. This is just an example on which I want to show that many of the things that have been said here are not true. The following questions surprise me: Why did Minister Stanjura put it in eKLEP, why did he put the draft budget there? Well, that's really weird of someone who was the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister, that he doesn't know the legislation that places the Minister of Finance just at this time the first figures on next year's budget, and thus insert into eKLEP. But I said I didn't want to argue for two hours with this set of different opinions, opinions, untruths, illusions, and that I wanted to address the proposal that we're going to discuss today, which brings the first part of the measures that our pension reform stands on. That is why I will focus on pensions and pension reform. [[18.00 hours]] The first amendment concerns, in particular, rules on the use of early pensions. I will not discuss this in detail, with a more detailed interpretation the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka will speak. I would rather use this space to give a little more general introduction to what is going on in this debate, why this is important and why it is important for all of us to pay due attention to this. Those budget debates and what populism is, and what all this has been saying, we can do it another time. But we are here today to discuss this debate on pension reform and on pension issues. The first thing that needs to be said here, and which we must all realise, is that pensions now represent by far the largest expenditure of the state budget. And if we hadn't gone into pension reform, pension spending would soon be the majority of the entire budget and government, any future government, whatever it may be, wouldn't have been enough money left for other things, for investments, for education or for defence. This is also important - not even for the necessary social measures, such as parental contributions or child allowances. And this is an unsustainable development that needs to be done. Secondly, our government depends on the Czech Republic getting back into shape, in order to succeed in a sustainable way. Not only today, but also in the coming years, and also in decades. After many years, we are the first government in the Czech Republic to solve long-term problems and systemic burden of the Czech Republic. Yes, it's not easy, it's not popular, that's why populists don't do it, but we do it, and we are the first government to deal with long-term problems - after a long time - with long-term problems and systemic burdens of the Czech Republic. And we also have results. Just look at how, despite all the unexpected expenditures with the energy crisis, we are succeeding against the previous government to reduce state budget deficits. And yet we do it responsibly, we do it socially sensitively, we do it through balanced measures, we don't unfairly restrict anyone, and we put record resources, record money into transport infrastructure and more. This is also important because this is a prerequisite for further development and prosperity of the Czech Republic. As far as pensions are concerned, I would also like to remind you that during our government, pensions have grown most in history. That's also reality. This year's average pension exceeds CZK 20,000. The ratio of average income to average wage increases up to record 50 percent this year, to net wage 60 percent, it hasn't been here for a long time, and this, right here, is the highest figures in the history of the Czech Republic. Pensioners, seniors, and that's a good thing, are becoming the only social group to fully offset inflation growth. No other social group has this benefit. This must also be borne in mind when we are talking about the proposed adjustments to the valorisation mechanism and other related adjustments. Part of the consolidation of public finances and of the systemic reforms that we have committed to in the programming declaration that we take seriously and that we implement is also a comprehensive pension reform. And that's why we prepared it. We promised voters that we would put on the table a real pension reform that the responsible people have been calling for for for many years, and we would do such a reform that even young people would have some assurance that when they retired, they would be able to get decent resources for their lives in the elderly. I would remind here one of the many unfulfilled promises of the former Prime Minister and the current leader of the opposition of Andrej Babiš from 2017. Above all, we want to solve pensions - I quote - mainly we want to solve pensions. Twenty-five years we've been talking about pension reform, so I'm sure we'd like to try. 2017. And in the programme statement of the Government of Andrej Babiš of June 2019, what are the main strategic guidelines: First. We want pension reform. We want concrete steps without lengthy and barren discussions. End of quote. The result? No pension reform. No way. I do not deny that this is a challenge and it is also an ungrateful task, we can see that. But at the same time, it's a necessary task. And even in this case, we are the first government not only to talk about reform, but to act specifically. Of course, previous governments did not have the courage to do anything like that except words and promises, and the problem grew larger in time. If we were to deal with it five years ago, if we were to deal with it seven years ago, it's a lot easier than when we're dealing with it now. And this eternal delay, those eternal excuses that it couldn't be done, and that's where it caused it, and the other lady and there it went wrong, and those who were supposed to come didn't come... Unfortunately, the permanent delay has damaged all of us. The demographic development of the Czech Republic is against us. If reform had started earlier, as experts called for it - some of whom despised here - as we all knew who we were looking at the population development, those measures could have been more moderate. Of course, the reform that we want to lay today is a compromise proposal in a number of directions, which we do not conceal. He meets criticism from both sides. Some say it could be even more radical, others say it's too hard. I think it also shows that this is a largely balanced compromise and that our approach to this is responsible. The fact that the Czech Republic needs reform of the pension system is quite obvious, so let me briefly present the arguments why it is our reform, which is the correct answer to the problems we have in this situation today. In preparing the overall pension reform, we followed three main objectives. First: the first, and here indeed the first goal is also the fundamental objective, the first goal is that the state retains the ability to fund pensions in a sustainable way. If that were not the case, we would sooner or later go bankrupt. And that is no political threat, that is the reality that I draw attention to all who are concerned with pensions, pension systems, but also with finances in the future, or with possible finances, by financing the system in the Czech Republic in the future. That is why it is also necessary for us to meet this first objective, i.e. to maintain the state's ability to fund pensions in a sustainable manner, so that we gradually shift the retirement age in line with how long life expectancy is extended. We expect the state to pay pensions to each social security participant for an average of 21.5 years. This is a number that should remain the same for all generations of citizens of the Czech Republic. The newly granted pensions from 2026 will also gradually valorize more slowly than before. But please, it is a reduction in valorisation in the order of approximately 150 to 200 crowns. The second objective was to strengthen the social system, namely to increase solidarity in society and significantly robust protection of the most vulnerable. Therefore, we increase the minimum guaranteed pension from CZK 4,800 to CZK 8,000. That is why we also want to introduce new measures such as the sharing of spouse's pension rights, i.e. a more equal distribution of pensions when the spouses have had significantly different incomes. Furthermore, when calculating pensions, we want to take into account aspects that do not play a role today, and so many people are largely unfairly disadvantaged. It is a matter of raising children, a factor in the difficulty of the profession, and other things that are mentioned in this pension reform. [[18.10 hours]] The third objective was to increase justice, the fairness of the pension system. This means ensuring that all who use it contribute adequately to the system. Sometimes there is talk of stowaways of social security who make minimum contributions. I don't want to use any names and stickers, but we just have to see that even those who count on a very small pension sometimes pay contributions that aren't enough for a very small pension. And then society can't close the door to them, it can't tell them - so you didn't save it, you didn't go into the social system, so you're out of luck. Because everyone who gets into a difficult situation in old age becomes clients of the social system. This strengthening justice ensures a gradual increase in payments, for example, to businessmen who do not pay the minimum amount or to limit cumulation of labour agreements. And for the same reason that I was talking about in these general principles of pension reform, for the same reason, we also represent changes in the rules for early retirement. That is precisely the issue that is being covered by the current government proposal. According to our proposal, a person must work for at least 40 years and may apply for early retirement only three years before the date set. It is precisely the problem of early retirement that needs to be addressed among the first. For years, the current system has contained a dangerously weak spot that has now emerged at a time of high inflation, and we must remove it. It was better for people to retire early under certain circumstances than to wait for the standard term. And that's not right, that's not fair. It's just not a good system, which is why we need to change it quickly. The number of these early pensions increased by more than 80,000 last year, which means that the labour market has left a substantial proportion of people early, roughly one year according to current calculations, which significantly reduces our productivity. Complications, of course, bring more. Complications were recorded by the Czech Social Security Administration, which could not have been prepared for such a huge strain on the applicants. And this has also led to - for which I have also apologized and what is really problematic from the point of view of the state - that the assessment of pensions has slowed down. The situation is improving, it will stop in a few weeks, but it is also the result of a poorly set system. Thus, by changing the rules for early pensions, we are also correcting the problem that currently exists, the problem that has been here for a long time and which has been so dramatic at a time of high inflation. At the same time, this adjustment is necessary in order to present the rest of the planned measures and to meet the objectives of the pension reform that I have mentioned here. I believe that all the objectives of our pension reform that I have listed here, i.e. in short and in terms of sustainability, solidarity and fairness, all these objectives make sense. That is why I believe that the government is fulfilling its task both responsibly and with utmost sensitivity to all aspects of the pension reform. I would also like to demonstrate this on several examples: Firstly, we have managed to combine requirements that are to some extent contradictory. On the one hand, the demand to restore public finances, which we have not taken in good shape, we have taken them in a disastrous state, and on the other hand, the requirement to resolve the injustice and logical gaps of the existing system. Secondly, the reform guarantees maximum benefits for all groups. It guarantees employees a decent amount of pension, which will mean less burden for the state budget, and tradesmen in exchange for higher compulsory contributions for those who have paid a completely minimum, offers at least minimum certainty in old age and that they will not become clients of the social system. Thirdly, reform will ensure a fair retirement for all generations. Age, which is constantly changing and is directly dependent on statistical data on the Czech population. And here we respond to a fact that is here and which is not easy to solve, and that is that the Czech population is getting older, undoubtedly prolonging the length of human life. These are all positive things, but we have to respond to that. And there is no other way to ensure the sustainability and justice of the entire system than that retirement will continue to increase according to the data I mentioned here. Finally, the change of pension system is an essential part of our wider reforms, which, after years of irresponsible governance, government that did not think about the future, will return the Czech Republic to countries that are responsible for investing in their strategic priorities. This means that we will give greater certainty not only to citizens to prepare for retirement, but also to the state in terms of sustainable funding; that we will be able to invest in our future, whether it is a good transport infrastructure, whether it is education; that we will respond to the key trends of the present, we will invest in important energy sources, in support of investments that will help transform our industry and keep us in world competition. Ladies and gentlemen, today's proposal is a first step towards presenting a whole balanced pension reform, and this pension reform is a major part of our extensive plan to modernise the Czech Republic. The Czech State spent too much time putting away old problems. It is time for us to finally solve these problems and focus on the future, because the time in which we can make it and when we have the chance to make things right is constantly running out. I therefore appeal to all Members of this Chamber of Deputies who care that the Czech Republic should manage this proposal responsibly and tolerablely in the next decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. And another with priority rights is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u16	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I am glad that, at least at this stage, when we are not yet discussing a concrete proposal, because we are still at a stage of only priority rights before an extraordinary meeting for the first reading directly as such comes, let me briefly speak after the opposition leaders have spoken for almost six hours, when the former Prime Minister, President of the Andrej Babiš movement, who, even a few years ago in the version of Andrej Babiš 2013, said that he does not want to babble in the House and that he is a politician who speaks briefly and factually, can overcome Tomio Okamura with more than a three-hour speech here today. Tomio Okamura was very brief today, he only spoke for an hour. That's how we could hear the disparate things that sounded and, above all, the untrue things. And I want to comment on some of the untrue ones before I talk about the substance of the material we want to discuss and the things that bring about the pension reform of our government. This is where the statements were made to the address of my person or the Minister of Finance. I want to turn on them. And please don't let the Chairman of the ANO movement use false and false statements. I do not remember - and if President Andrej Babiš said so here, let him prove - that the Minister of Finance would ever say that they were economic damage to Czech pensioners. Today, Andrej Babiš here has said it several times. Either he can prove it or he can apologize for such a lie. [[18.20 hours]] He was talking about me, that I called last year and told people to go ask for early retirement, that it was advantageous. Whether he proves it or apologizes, I've never said anything like that. I am on the question of journalists who know the question of the pension system and who at the end of August last year have calculated that at the moment when there is one or two extraordinary valorisations in a given year, there will be a specific, anomalous situation that it is better to ask or leave early retirement, or to ask and to have a deferred payment. And I said yes to that, and this is the situation, and it happened in 2022. But I've never challenged anyone. I'd be happy not to have used statements that aren't true. There's a lot we can blame ourselves for. But if he starts lying publicly here and lying repeatedly, and there are words that fall that this government coalition is taking away the elderly, that they don't appreciate them, and so on, they're really things that are hard behind the edges. We have increased pensions in a year and a half of our government according to the applicable legislation, when three extraordinary valorisations have already occurred and two proper ones. Pensions in the Czech Republic increased by 30 percent per year and a half. The average amount of pensions in the Czech Republic is CZK 20,200 after extraordinary valorization in June. So please tell nicely here that the government of Andrej Babiš added and during the reign of this current one did not join the pensioners, it is again a lie, a lie, and it is a misguided one. I don't think any of us politicians, of us children and grandchildren of current pensioners, would want current pensioners. [[is not]] [[who]] We all want to be able to support them so that we can protect them so that we can support them in a situation where inflation has risen around them for objective global reasons. But at the same time, everyone responsible not only for politicians, but also for parents, father from children, mother from children also remembers that it is important not only to think about the present but also to think about the future. And the measures that we are doing as a government in the framework of the entire pension reform are the measures that we represent under this particular legislative proposal, the measures that, within the whole pension reform, mean that we want to ensure good living conditions not only for current pensioners, but also for their children and their grandchildren, so that today's generations of 50, 40, 30 and those who will come to us will also have the guarantee that they will have a chance to live with dignity in their old age in the ongoing system thanks to these adjustments. We're making adjustments that are positive, which are pro-social. And I also appreciate the fact that some colleagues and colleagues from the opposition have repeatedly been able to acknowledge them as good and positive in recent weeks. For example, the family assessment base that appreciates the merit of education, the investment in education that parents invest in their children, by not being a time of alms and punishment for these parents once retired, but will be valued by the value of the average wage in the year that this is clearly a good and positive measure. That within the family assessment base it is also clearly good and positive that people who take care of their parents, grandparents, wives, husbands, someone close to them who is in some higher degree of dependence, that they did not put the person into any care of a residence facility, but that they care for him at home, that it will also be appreciated in future retirement by the average wage in that year. That's a huge shift. The pension system has rather punished these people. The fact that there is clearly a positive step as a common assessment basis for spouses, which will allow voluntary sharing of the average income in a given year, and from which one pension will be calculated, is a step that will, in turn, bring stability especially for women, so that their pensions, in the event of any life reversal, will have a dignified amount in the event of widowhood. There is another important measure that remembers widows and widowers who are more likely to lose their husbands and wives at some point in their late years, as well as once and for all entitlement to widows and widows' pensions, so that the system will also be a little more solid for them. There is a measure that introduces a higher value of the minimum guaranteed pension, which means that people will know that if they work at least 35 years at the time of insurance, their guaranteed minimum part will be 20 percent of the average earnings. These are clearly positive measures. Or also a measure that will allow earlier departures for people who pursue challenging professions. I think these are measures for which we agreed, in principle, in working-level discussions, that they are supported by opposition representatives in principle. And these are the measures brought by the earlier pension committees that were here, not only by the Danuše Nerudová Commission during the previous governments, but also by the former ones. But if we stayed with these measures, it would only mean more expenditure from the system, from the pension system, which will already have a deficit of more than CZK 80 billion this year. 80 billion crowns this year we will pay more for pensions than will be collected. And if we keep it that way, by 2050, more than CZK 350 billion will be missing in this system every year. Every year. And we would either have to secure that amount in the future by raising more tax money, or by saving other ministries dramatically, or by reducing pensions considerably. And as some expert authorities have calculated, the future average income at today's prices would be CZK 12,000. And if there's a politician who's responsible, he knows he can't let that happen. We are in a situation where the subject of pension reform has been postponed for 25 years. I remember Andrej Babiš standing here in 2014 and saying: I have the pension reform, I will introduce it in a few months and we will implement it. Many governments had written in their government's programming statement: we will do pension reform, we must do it, is put it off. The majority of the public in the Czech Republic is convinced, according to many surveys, that pension reform cannot be postponed and that it needs to be done. I remember Andrej Babiš, who said: if we were to rule for four years, either as a minority or as a monochrome government, we would try and do a pension reform. And today we hear actually a lot of criticism, often of false criticism, but we don't see any of the fact that over the last few years, when Andrej Babiš was Prime Minister or Finance Minister, he would present such a proposal, or that he would at least try to do it. And as part of the pension reform, we are taking steps that are leading to stabilisation, so that future pensions have a dignified level and value. That is why we are also taking some measures that may not be popular for someone at first sight. But if a person likes his children and his grandchildren, then I think that a reasonable person, a person who, in life, has renounced much so that his children and grandchildren can have a reasonably good time, I think he will understand that some measures need to be taken. And we have here today in the proposal that we want to discuss in the next few hours at first reading, a proposal that goes into two areas - to the area of valorisation adjustment, when it will apply, and I want to underline and stress this, it will be true that by 1 January of each year, proper valorisation will always be fully about inflation and by one third of the growth in real wages. Thus, the parameters that have been here for years until 2018 and which have brought stability and adequate growth to ensure a good standard of living for our pensioners. That'll always be true. That doesn't change anything. [[18.30 hours]] Then we adjust the parameter that concerns the conditions of extraordinary valorization. And why are we adjusting it? We are adjusting it because the current mechanism caused above-average and high pensions to grow after extraordinary valorisation, and it has grown steadily more than those below-average and low pensions. Those scissors were unfairly opening up between these old-age groups. And we're setting up this mechanism so that if it ever happens in the future that month-on-month inflation exceeds 5% in that year, then the principle of an extraordinary contribution to the pension that no one will have to ask for will work. The latter will help to cope with the increase in inflation to old-age pensioners for the remaining months of the year, and then every 1 January of each calendar year, the proper valuation will take place, which will adequately valorize both the underlying component and the merit component. And it's fair, it's social, it takes into account the evolution of inflation. Then we also respond to the fact that we are adjusting the conditions for early retirement. And I believe that early retirement is not to be used as an institute because it is better at some point or because it is advantageous to leave the labour market, and it uses 30% of people who retire today. But an old-age pension and early, early retirement should be used in a situation where, for objective reasons, a person simply cannot continue his productive life and retire. But it's not supposed to be that it's convenient right now, that it's going to happen some year when it's extraordinarily advantageous. That is why we adjust the four basic parameters, and that is that the period for retirement is adjusted to three years before entitlement to an old-age pension, that for every 90 days the pension will be reduced by a factor of 1,5 per cent and that we want to have a requirement for this institute to be used by people who have worked and had an insurance period of 40 years. I remind you, today the average time for people in the Czech Republic to retire is 44.5 years. So it's not a measure that people don't normally take these days. And the last one. As long as a person receives an early pension, the merit part will not be reviewed, only the basic part will be reviewed and then valorized at the moment when the person goes from the pre-retirement institute to the proper one. I think that when you think about it, these measures make sense, they give room for those people to leave really in a situation where, for example, their wear, their physical burden, and in combination with the fact that we're counting on the whole pension reform package to have the institute of demanding professions from 2025, I think they're measures that give logic. I would just like to remind myself of what is also important, why we are doing this and why it may not be easy, and why sometimes people feel it is something that they feel like they might not have to do, and it might have to be postponed. I want to show you what the state pension budget is today. [[It's showing a graph.]] Today we spend 33.9 percent on pensions from the budget. And as I mentioned here a moment ago, this year's deficit, the difference between how much we collect on insurance and how much we pay off will be over 80 billion crowns. We must take steps with these measures not to move towards that huge deficit, which would mean about CZK 2050 to less than CZK 350 billion. We are also in a situation where our population is getting older, we have had 900,000 fewer children in the last 30 years, much later younger and younger generations are coming into the labour market, and a combination of these factors will mean that today we have a situation where around 2030 1.5 working people will be working at a working age per pensioner, and in 2050 the ratio will be one working at a pensioner. Those are the facts. It's not haunting. That's a statement of the situation. And politicians are supposed to be telling the truth. They're supposed to say, this is a fact, this is a very precise prognosis, and that's why we're supposed to take the measures that aren't popular at first sight, but she's actually popular for those future generations so that they have a chance to retire and they'll have similar security to their parents or grandparents. Yes, I agree, and that is what this pension reform is, and it is also in other measures that we are doing, it is still very important to support parents, support families, promote courage, bravery, parents' efforts to have children, raise them, and invest in their education. This is what the state must do, especially the state that is dying out, and the Czech Republic, like the whole European Union, is dying out. We don't have a birth rate worth two or more children per woman. So we have to keep trying to do this, we must not resign, and our government will not resign. But the fact that we're almost 30 years short of 900,000 children is the fact that we can't reverse it. We can try to change the years to come, but we can't change the major negative spike that's going to happen. Then I also wanted to show a small comparison of what the amount of pensions was when it was said that this government was not thinking about pensioners. So let's look at the latest data that's up to date. [[He's pointing.]] I have taken the liberty of making a small comparison between the Czech Republic and the latest values known from public sources in Slovakia, which is June 2023 in the case of us and April 2023 in the case of Slovakia. I recommend that we look at the amount of average pensions in these two countries. And I think if we look at the ratio, the compensation ratio between the average amount of pensions and the average wage, we've gotten practically 50 percent, which is one of the highest compensation rates, actually the highest in the last 30 years. Yes, this is also due to the fact that real wage growth has stopped. This has to be acknowledged, it is clear and clear, but this company has behaved very solidly towards the elderly in this situation. And we're forgetting one fact. None of our parents and grandparents paid their pensions. It's an ongoing system. That means what they did was paid for their parents' and grandparents' pensions for the next month. And today's productive generation in its contributions creates the value of what is paid next month to current old-age pensioners. And there really must be balanced intergenerational solidarity here, and we need to watch both of those scales. And I will allow myself to say one last thing, to conclude one more important thing, which was important and what was more than 1.4 million women, especially women, in retirement, have helped very significantly, and this has been the introduction of education since 1 January. Even in the difficult budgetary situation, the government implemented this measure as of 1 January. Yes, frankly, I have tabled this proposal here in the past period as an opposition Member several times, and I remember how the then government coalition YES and ČSSD refused to support me with this measure several times. [[18.40 hours]] This was only succeeded at one of the last votes of the then-ending House. And I'm glad it did, because that doesn't solve the cause, we're dealing with the family basis, but we're dealing with the effect. The consequence of the system punishing our mothers, the grandmothers who raised us, the current productive generation. And that's the next step where I'm very upset with the sound of some opposition officials saying that we have an obsession here, an obsession, and that we have ambition here to solve budget deficit problems by reducing something to the elderly. It's not true. In a year and a half 30% increase in the amount of pensions, the introduction of education, which mainly helps women who have objectively significantly lower pensions than men, and actually exceed the record limit of more than CZK 20,000 of average income. I would really like those next hours, maybe days, to see, really to be conducted by constructive debate, and when someone comes in here and criticizes not to talk from Šumava to Tatras, not to say things that are obviously false here, but to focus, as far as possible, on the substance of what we are talking about, and this is an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, or things related to pension reform. And when someone comes and says it's wrong, I would expect them to submit and say: I have a complex proposal here that addresses not only the issue of spending but, above all, the issue of income. I mean, things that aren't popular, but they just have to work out if they really, like a politician who steps up to this place, they mean it, and they mean it to future generations that come in twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years. And if this guy can't give a relevant better counterproposal, then the discussion is very complicated and sometimes pointless. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Another with priority rights is President Radim Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, gentlemen, and ladies ministers and ministers before I touch the pensions, before I talk about pensions, as we have been discussing all day, so let me start with the unusual economic situation of the Czech Republic, which the statists told us a few days ago, that means that we have almost a state budget deficit, as we planned for the whole year. The situation isn't good. I think that, above all, the economic situation and inflation are the cause of the government's efforts to reduce the valorisation of pensions for our seniors. So, Minister, it's inflation, it's not the seniors who are the reason. And I think that if the government were to fight inflation in time and faster and more effectively, maybe it didn't have to come up with pension valorization to that extent. The state budget for this year ended at the end of May at CZK 271 billion, with the ODS coalition, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN pushing through a deficit budget of less CZK 295 billion this year. So in five months, 92 percent of the deficit is exhausted and this is the worst state budget deficit in the modern history of the Czech Republic at all. It is therefore clear that the budget for this year is completely unrealistic, which the SPD pointed out from the very beginning of its discussions in the House. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura from ODS presented a so-called consolidation package of CZK 94 billion at the theatrical press conference, but after a week comes with another consolidation package for savings of CZK 20 billion. It proposes, for example, a reduction in civil servants' salaries by 5% or a delay in the planned valorisation of payments for state insured persons, which has already caused a strike alert for health care workers. According to Eurostat, we have the third highest inflation in Europe at all, and the Czech Republic is one of the three countries in Europe that do not have economic growth back at the pre-covid crisis level. The government has selected more than CZK 200 billion in taxes in total because of double-digit inflation. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura is incompetent and should resign as administrator of the state register immediately and with him the entire government. I'd like to elaborate on that. The problem with this government is that today we are dealing with pensions and reducing pension valorisation, and it is the public finances and economic situation, because the management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala is in complete disintegration. The ongoing deficit of the state budget - and I have already talked about it - is 271 billion and it is 92 percent and it is the worst result in the entire history of the Czech Republic. As the SPD, we disagreed with this draft budget, and we said immediately that the figures that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura drew there are unrealistic both in terms of income and expenditure, and we are in a situation where the whole matter is confirmed. This is the political responsibility of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who should resign immediately for these reasons. It is simply a catastrophic implementation of the state budget and the government has completely ignored this disastrous performance and has done nothing against it and does nothing but rely on the tax collection of extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, which will again be significantly lower than the budget assumption, and also rely on the dividend from CEZ's parastate company. The SPD's movement pointed out from the beginning that the windfall tax did not choose what it had planned, the government budgeted because it would teach companies to optimize, transfer profits abroad and so on, but no one would pay such taxes. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has budgeted these figures into the state budget, which prove unrealistic and unrealistic, just not so much tax will be collected. This will, however, drastically deepen the budget deficit. The astronomical deficit is mainly affected by the dilettantly set and overvalued compensation for energy traders. In connection with the price ceilings on energy, the wholesale price of electricity in the last 12 months on the stock exchange has fallen by 900 euros per megawatt, so there is no reason to compensate, on the contrary, price ceilings for Czech households and companies must be reduced. We've said it from the beginning, but unfortunately, this government with its right hand scratches behind its left ear and thinks it's not okay, we just pay huge billions, tens of billions, we pay speculators and energy traders. Unfortunately, there are contracts that this government has to or wants to keep. The volume of subsidies paid to other private business entities and expenditure on government debt management has also increased dramatically. The tax collection increased significantly compared to last year, by a total of 50 billion for personal income tax, i.e. by almost 27 percentage points, and for corporate tax by 21 percentage points, i.e. significantly above current inflation growth. So the problem is clearly somewhere else. The problem is on the side of budgetary expenditure. However, the government is not planning a real and rapid investigation at all, including the investigation of expenditure on its operation and the operation of state bureaucracy. The so-called consolidation package contains only vague and difficult to make cuts for the years 2024 and 2025. [[18.50 hours]] Fast, radical and flat steps are needed. It is necessary to stop any remaining government expenditure of the type of overpriced foreign arms contracts worth tens of billions of crowns. However, the most reasonable solution that could save our dramatic budgetary situation would be the immediate departure of this government. Okay, let's just take it easy on the pensions, and let's talk about the subject for which we have an emergency meeting tonight. The opening series of government proposals for amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and the pension scheme will be discussed at this meeting today at first reading. These are measures aimed at significantly reducing the future valuation of pensions and substantially tightening the conditions for early retirement. The SPD movement completely rejects this government material in its submitted form and makes its own amendments to it, which ensure a dignified pension. Petr Fiala's government wants to significantly reduce the proper valorisation of pensions, and it wants to completely abolish those exceptional in case of higher inflation and replace them with a low social contribution for a limited period of time, but it will not become a permanent part of the pension statement. This will lead to a further decline in real pensions, a drop in a large number of seniors into income and social poverty, and will affect the most low-income seniors. The unbearable tightening of early retirement conditions will, in turn, harm workers in demanding professions. This government draft is thus merely an effort to reduce the budget deficit that this government itself has caused and is constantly deepening at the expense of pension recipients and by resigning to a genuine, beneficial, long-term pension reform. As part of my speech on the government proposal to limit pension valorizations and the deterioration of the conditions for early retirement and its drawing on the issue of the construction of our pension system, let me think a little more widely, not only in the context of purely social policy of the state. There's no way I'm talking off the subject. You'll hear for yourself. But the proposed government regulations cannot be deduced from the logic of the functioning of the pension scheme and all its contexts. And I consider it my duty, in addition to the criticism of government proposals and the entire government approach to pensions and pensioners, to mention some substantial economic contexts as well as to outline certain ideas of the SPD movement about our approaches to the adjustment of the pension system. First, a short methodological strategic remark on the issue of early pensions. In my opinion, the government has chosen the wrong chronology of the actions taken. The possibility of early retirement without any further reduction in employees in physically demanding and stressful professions must be resolved in priority. We have always proposed and insisted in the SPD that the list of these professions be as broad and complete as possible and that it be drawn up on the basis of consultations with experts on occupational medicine and with doctors and health professionals specializing in occupational diseases and hygiene of the working environment. The SPD's movement has therefore always required in all negotiations that the proposal for early retirement be approved for employees in heavy professions before tightening the conditions for early retirement with other pension fund payers. The reverse government procedure doesn't make sense or sense, and it's about to cause big problems. As I have already submitted, every responsible opposition political party, when criticizing something, must also have a clear positive, constructive alternative. With the pension system and its potential adjustments, whether we call them pension reform or not, that is twice as true. So let's start with one short but extremely important measure. The reform of the execution system would be a crucial step towards strengthening our pension system and improving the balance of the pension account. Such a reform, which will enable people in executions to be employed in standard employment contracts for decent wages, is not in line with the current situation where the so-called unusable minimum wage for employees in execution is significantly lower than the minimum wage. This enforcement reform should also lead to a change in the current unsatisfactory situation, where wage reductions must be administered and provided by employers, which is often costly, complex and demanding for them, especially for middle and smaller employers, and therefore do not want to employ people in executions. This happens very often when people come to apply for employment, the employer asks if the employee is being executed, and if he is, he says he is not interested. That is, of course, very wrong. On the contrary, employees are looking for an employer who would employ them, give them money on their hands, that is, in cash, even if they have a contract and wait for Social Services to just come to them when they find out the employment office where they are employed and start tearing them down and ordering the employer to pull those payroll executions. As soon as this happens, of course, the employees are going somewhere else, looking for a new employer, so that they can get a full salary or a full salary for two or three months. That is why I think that employers should be allowed or eased by the system of employment of executives. For example, financial or executive authorities could carry out this agenda next time. The annual contribution of these measures would only be on insurance contributions, and this is not something we invented, but according to sociologist Daniel prokop, from PAQ Research could amount to up to CZK 12 billion a year. Twelve billion crowns a year. And it can be done relatively very quickly. As far as genuine and large pension reform is concerned, it is the basis of which we consider strong family policy and the promotion of birth rates in working families. If we take this seriously, it will not be necessary to increase retirement age beyond the current 65 years, which is an inexhaustible thing for the SPD, and we fundamentally refuse to retire more than 65 years. I will talk about both of these matters today. But for their importance, I consider it necessary to mention them in the introduction and separately. As a general rule, the question of affecting the amount of the pension account balance has more dimensions, not only on the expenditure side, where the retirement age limit is set, and therefore the current number of pensioners and the amount of pensions and their valuations, which the Fialův Government wants to reduce, but also on the neglected income side of the pension account. And this is clearly where the parameter for the number of pension payers falls, which we have to increase in various ways. And it also belongs here, which the government completely ignores, the development and state of macroeconomic indicators, in the first place clearly above and the inflation rate, then the unemployment rate and secondarily also the evolution of gross domestic product volume. The government has completely resigned from these instruments. It is only popularly said that it heals the elderly and takes money from them that they are legally entitled to, but above all morally. For example, if inflation returns to one-digit year-on-year values, where it has been for decades until recently, there will be no need at all to use the system of extraordinary valuations in the order of tens of billions of crowns per year, and the development of the pension account will be much more sustainable. This means, what I said at the outset, focusing on eliminating the causes of inflation, especially with regard to commodity prices in the so-called retirement consumer basket. And then also reduce the huge budget deficit. [[19.00 hours]] The state and government must also pursue an active employment policy, i.e. create conditions and environments for as many citizens as possible to want and work in a standard employment relationship, and not outside it, or directly black. But frankly, how many times can they not be surprised? I have already spoken of hundreds of thousands of citizens in executions who cannot work for begging wages, especially when they have families and children. But we can also include massive administrative and bureaucratic barriers, demands and costs that plague smaller employers and businessmen, which often makes it impossible for them to employ people in a standard way at full employment. Let's give them some relief, listen to them in what would help them, and let's not throw the sticks at them. We're all gonna make money on this. And, of course, there is a question of wages that still lags significantly behind our western neighbours, with labor productivity being the same in our country, or even higher than there, and Western multinational corporations are carrying out fairy tales, often only minimally taxed profits, or tax-free dividends, without adequately paying Czech citizens who co-create these profits to them. But in the long run, she's the alpha and omega of pro-family politics. What does that even mean, what does it mean? A more significant tax advantage for children, especially for third and other children in the family, a higher discount for a husband or wife caring for young children, which the government is now proposing to significantly limit, which is an outright anti-family measure, an anti-family issue, so that it cannot be any pension reform, but a change in pension parameters. Because if we don't invest in national policy, we'll never have enough children, and then we'll continue to have people paying seniors with their taxes. We need to help low-income working families, which means, among other things, by law, allowing tax discounts to be transferred to the tax bonus and removing the minimum annual and monthly limit for entitlement to the tax bonus, which, in turn, are relatively simple adjustments in the Income Tax Act, but it would simply help these people to decide whether or not to have another child. We have submitted these legislative proposals to the House a long time ago. Furthermore, it is a higher parental contribution, higher birth and birth rates for the third and every other child in the working family - this is very important, in the working family - a higher encore for the child in these families and an increase in the threshold of the minimum living rate from which the parent has the right to child allowance. It'll come back many times in the future. These amendments will, of course, be proposed in the second reading of this law, although they are part of another law, but we think they are part of the pension reform. Steps must be crucial towards ending the current availability of housing for young families with children. Basically, today, I can't imagine young people reaching their own apartment, including a mortgage, with their salary or wages. They're having trouble saving up for a mortgage check. Just the interest rate is at least 8% now, so the housing of young people has been incredibly distant at the moment. And I don't think he's in sight, and we'll see how it goes. But I would say that this is simply not going to get any better, so that young families can be made clear, we can reach our own home. I'm bohužel so. The government has to do something about it. For example, the introduction of marital loans from state guarantees, state aid for the repayment of mortgage loans at the time of parental leave, State aid for further housing, including cooperative rental housing, free transfers of buildings and land from the State to the county and the municipality, which would just allow the construction of cooperative housing or also municipal housing. And other necessary measures. Financial support for part-time work for pre-school parents, part-time work for lower social security for pre-school and school parents. There's no such thing. The government doesn't do any pro-family politics, they're just talking about it. Furthermore, for example, the extension of the capacity of available pre-school facilities, the contribution to school aids, which the government of course cancels for security, and leisure activities. Do not cancel kindergarten fees, which the current government again proposes and takes from families with small children from pockets an additional CZK 17,300 a year. So the government's taking kindergarten, other things, and families are gonna decide if they're gonna have another baby. Well, they won't. Which is another anti-family measure for this government that weakens the pension system as well. Those are connected containers. Let's move on. In addition to the ongoing pillar financed from compulsory pension insurance, it is necessary for the State to motivate citizens significantly, including the youngest ones, in order to ensure and prepare for old age in other, complementary ways, for example through voluntary pension savings in the so-called third pension pillar. But the government is going the other way. Support for this type of security limits age and the proposed measures are rather demotivative. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the package, which calls pension reform and which was published in mid-May, proposes no longer to provide a State contribution to pension savings to citizens receiving pensions in the future. Above all, it is intended to increase the limit of the monthly voluntary pension savings component from which the citizen will be entitled this state contribution, from CZK 300 to CZK 500 per month, which will harm low-income citizens, citizens who will save even more for their children, etc. On the contrary, we would also provide a public contribution to monthly deposits below CZK 300, and we would support much more significantly the pension savings of low-income working citizens and younger people, such as under 35 years of age. Because the real sense and effect of voluntary pension savings only arises if the citizen saves this way throughout his productive life, as long as possible. By the way, the problem of the third voluntary pillar does not lie in the lack of interest in it or in the acute need for some transformation of it. On the contrary. The numbers are clear. In a generation that is now missing from retirement for about 10 to 15 years, four out of the five future pensioners have a voluntary pension insurance contract. This means that these people are clearly aware that the state is failing and that they should start thinking about themselves. His real defects are elsewhere. The insurance, the third pillar. And the government is not working at all to eliminate them, even though this would really be an important and worthy reform step. Most clients conclude a contract for this supplementary insurance 10 to 20 years later than would be objectively necessary. When they conclude this contract, they save up to five times as much money on average as necessary to create a sufficiently high balance in their private pension account at the threshold of retirement age. For example, the economist Jaroslav Šulc analyzes this in detail. It is precisely because of the considerably lower savings amount than would be sufficient to grant a relatively low state income for life, about three quarters of the participants in voluntary savings at the end of the fund will choose one-off financial compensation. Another fifth will even be satisfied with the so-called salesman, when the state contribution will also be passed on. Only units of percent of those who voluntarily save in the third pillar decide to pay a lifetime rent, which is a complete fiasco and a denial of the original purpose of this system. So let us work on changing this trend. I have introduced some of the proposals here. [[19.10 hours]] The money we spend to support voluntary pension savings today will save us multiplely higher items, which we will otherwise pay to future seniors in decades on various social benefits. Note to setting the retirement age. We have stressed many times during the SPD movement that the age limit at 65 is unbreakable and unbreakable for us because the average life expectancy in men is currently 76 years and 81 years for women. But even more important parameter - the time of life is the time of life in health. It has been practically constant for over 30 years, which means that it does not increase, as some sociologists sometimes mistakenly warn us, and that is 62 years of age for men and 64 years for women. This means that the limit of 65 years for retirement is absolutely sufficient, perhaps even too high, since many people are already retired in poor health. Members of physically difficult professions now have to work for over 45 years since their former education. You may remember big strikes recently, big strikes in France, when France increased its retirement age from 62 to 64 years. And they were huge strikes. Two years, and we're starting to talk about 68 years. Here I made a clear argument, articulate and demonstrate why the 65-year period of the SPD has been unstoppable for the 65-year SPD movement and the unstoppable border. Any increase in the age of retirement will also lead, according to many experts and experience from abroad, to an increase in the number of early and disability pensions and to an increase in long-term incapacity for work - those people will simply no longer be able to work - as well as to a deterioration in the health status of seniors and to a massive burden on the welfare system and the health system. So it will also bring more economic damage than benefit. What is also true and what is extremely important is that any pension reform is feasible and, above all, sustainable in the long term only provided that the current government and the parliamentary opposition identify themselves with its form, or with its essential points. We also discussed this at those meetings with Minister Marian Jurečka. And that there will be consensus on the long-term immutability of this reform, that is absolutely not true in the case of current government proposals, which are not even a pension reform. And we in the SPD are clearly saying that if some unacceptable changes in the pension system go through for us and for citizens, we will cancel them again in the future. And we told face to face and Minister Jurečka. We should not use false arguments and demagogy in debates on the adjustment of the parameters of the pension system and unnecessarily raise concerns about the future for citizens. That's not a responsible policy. There is no collapse of the ongoing pillar of the pension system at present. Consider, for example, that the Czech Republic spends about a quarter less money on pensions in relative terms than neighbouring Poland and other European countries, including Western countries. We spend about 8 percent of GDP, elsewhere it's 10 percent or more. Let's think about that. Or let's think about what the government needs the money to take from the elderly. Ukraine? War? What does he need them for anyway? Nor is it once and for all given that adverse demographic developments will continue irreversibly for decades to come and that we will be constantly declining. This, too, is influenced by the pro-family policy that I was talking about, and by the other means that it is to be held in its hands. And it is also true that, while we can estimate relatively accurately the future mortality rate, their probability is much lower in birth forecast, mainly because this variable is influenced by many factors, starting with women's willingness to have children and not to prefer other values through housing availability, real wage developments and employment rates, and a number of other prerequisites necessary for young families to function. I've already indicated a few things in this regard. And with a slight exaggeration to estimate the development of birth rate. The current government cut more than CZK 100 billion in estimated budget revenues from year to year. And we're supposed to trust her now that she knows exactly how many people are born in 2070. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot mention separately and in more detail the phenomenon of the so far high tide of dividends from the Czech Republic, which ranges from 300 to 400 billion crowns year on year. And I am not talking about internal transfers within multinational companies and artificial reductions in their tax base, i.e. internal optimizations of these multinational corporations. All of this in its entirety reduces space for faster growth of needs (?) and investment, but also wages and salaries, and thus future pensions of Czech citizens. Even in this direction, we must turn our attention and with different ways and tools to push these corporations to reinvest their profits here, mainly in the form of significant wage increases for their Czech employees. Given that the dividend drain is equivalent to almost half of the annual pension account volume, it is clear that if it is reduced, it could be a welcome resource for an objectively threatening deficit of this account in the fourth and fifth decades of this century, when the demographic crisis will culminate, amplified by the long fluctuations and the decline in birth rate, beginning in the early 1990s and continuing to date. It is clear, therefore, that the ongoing pension system has not been exhausted and that it has a chance to ensure a decent life for future generations of pensioners - provided that we take systemic steps in budgetary and tax legislation in due time, that we pursue a reasonable and prospective economic, social and family policy. However, none of this is done by the government of Petr Fiala and, on the contrary, it is destroying our economic and social environment. And lately, he's chosen, illogically and principally, an amorally, as his main target for the retired, both current and future. And her proposals for the Pension Insurance Act, which we have started here today, testify to this. [[Changes?]] This is unacceptable for us in the SPD and will not have our support. And it's not just one-sided negation on our part. On the contrary, we have our solutions and our programming alternatives, which will allow a smooth future functioning of the pension system. I have introduced many of them here, and I will introduce many others next time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. And since we don't have any more priority applications, I'm gonna get started now. We will vote on the whole proposal for a 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll take a moment to read the apologies. Mrs Balaštíková - from 17 to 20 for working reasons; Mr Carbol - from 18 to 19 for working reasons; Mr Feranec - from 19 for health reasons; Mr Hájek - from 6 pm, takes back his apology for working reasons; Mr Hájek from 16 pm for working reasons; Mrs Jílková - all working day, without giving any reason; Mr Kettner - from 16 to 20 for working reasons; Mrs Levko - for the whole day of the meeting on account of foreign travel; Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová - from 17.05 to 20.15 for family reasons; Mrs Němečková Crkvenjaš - the whole day of the sitting, for working reasons; Mr Richter from 16.30 on health grounds; Mrs Šafránková - from 15 on health grounds; Mr Milan Wenzl - from 19 for health reasons. Members of the Government: Prime Minister Fiala - from 18:30 to 21:00 for work reasons; Mr Vice Prime Minister Rakušan - the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel; Minister, Vice Prime Minister Válek - from 14:00 to 17:00 for work reasons. And the apology is canceled by Vice-President Kovářová. I'm interested in signing off, so I'm signing you off, and I'm asking you all to sign in. [[19.20 hours]] We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I'm opening the vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 136, for was 80, against 56. And result: accepted. I therefore state that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to one item on the show, item number one, which is a government bill amending Act No. 155... I'm sorry. Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to mention that my voting device isn't working. I'm not questioning the vote, but I'd like the attendants to take a look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-000-000.u21	But, Member, if the vote does not work, the vote must be re-voted. It must be repeated, the vote must be repeated. So I'd like to see if it really doesn't work. [[Control of the voting device.]] Is that okay? Yes. Well, I'm gonna have you all checked out again, and I'm gonna ask you to sign in. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] And I repeat that we will vote once again on the entire proposal for the 67th meeting. The Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 139, for 82, versus 57. Result: accepted. And now, once again, we're at point number
