ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u1	7. Government draft Constitutional Act amending Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws, and Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll. House printing 252/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the Constitution has responded to major changes in the security environment in the world in recent years. The security environment is currently strongly affected by Russia's aggressive actions, culminating in a military attack by Ukraine in February 2022, which poses an immediate threat to the security of the Czech Republic. The international security environment is also characterised by increasing threats to terrorism, illegal migration and instability in areas adjacent to NATO and the European Union. Our safety is further affected by unpredictable developments in epidemics and pandemics with serious consequences for the world's health, social and economic situation. The deterioration of the security environment leads to the emergence of situations where it is necessary to quickly decide on the sending of our armed forces abroad or on the acceptance of the armed forces of allied countries on our territory, in particular in order to save our citizens and, where appropriate, other persons abroad, to ensure the protection of life and health of persons at risk of illegal migration, to provide medical assistance to the population, for example in the event of epidemics and pandemics. Examples include the evacuation of our citizens and local collaborators of Czech missions from Afghanistan in August 2021, the acceptance of military paramedics from NATO states during the covid-19 pandemic at the end of 2020, the arrival of a large number of refugees from Ukraine to Slovakia after the start of Russian aggression this year, the penetration of a large number of illegal migrants from Belarus into Poland at the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u3	I'm so sorry, Madam Secretary. I ask for peace, after all, we are discussing the constitutional law or the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u4	In order to enable the Czech Republic to react quickly and effectively in such cases, it is proposed that the amendment be amended. 43 constitutions so that the government can decide to send or receive armed forces in terms of life and health protection, threats to property values or threats to the security of the Czech Republic. This amendment reflects constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, which provides that the basic obligations of the state are to ensure the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Czech Republic, to protect its democratic foundations, to protect lives, health and property values. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 constitutions concerning transits and flights of armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic. This change responds to the government's long-term practice, which cannot decide on any particular passage or crossing - for example 255 transits and 6 829 flights took place in 2020, and which therefore allows transits and crossings of foreign armed forces for the entire calendar year. It should be stressed that this practice has been accepted by the Parliament of the Czech Republic for a long time. In addition, the amendment proposes the implementation of legislative technical amendments in Art. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 11 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic. The purpose of these changes is to clearly express the principle of the division of power between the Government and Parliament, when the government always decides on the transmission and residence of the armed forces, while Parliament agrees to implement such decisions and has the right to abolish such decisions by the Government. To conclude, similar amendments to the Constitution, which were intended to ensure the necessary operation of the broadcasting and reception of the armed forces, were already tabled in the two previous parliamentary periods of the Chamber of Deputies in the form of parliamentary proposals, with some of you as co-chairs with me, and we have always tabled the proposal across the political spectrum. Perhaps it is worth mentioning, for the sake of interest, that the chair of the YES movement, Mr Andrej Babiš, has also signed up for this proposal, so I expect that the support will actually be maintained continuously because it is an institution and, of course, a constitutional majority is needed. Although these parliamentary proposals have always had the support of a large number of Members across the political spectrum, their discussion has unfortunately not been completed. I firmly believe that this third attempt will finally be successful, and I thank some of you for your attention and I look forward to thanking you for your support. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before we continue to discuss this point, Mr Hrnčíř and Mr Vích signed up for the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm just going to vote number 71 when I abstained, but I have a yes on high. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u7	Yes, thank you. Mr Vích, also to vote? Excuse me, Mr. Dvořák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u8	Hello. It's the same vote. I've abstained, and I've got a yes on high. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u9	Yes, thank you, too. So we will now continue to discuss this point. I have an updated amendment to the rapporteur. The rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská is excused and Mr Marek Benda will jump in quotes instead. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'll sing. [[9.30 hours]] For the arrivals, I will repeat that we are voting on the amendment of the rapporteur, and this becomes - or will be - Mr Marek Benda. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 147, versus 1. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask the rapporteur, Marek Benda, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u10	Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Minister Two, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am really hoping as a last-minute rapporteur thanks to my apologized colleague, Mrs Lesenská. The Minister of Defence, Mrs Černochová, introduced you to the draft bill quite closely, or to the draft amendment of the Constitution. I would add that, despite the fact that we seem to be responding to some situation of security in Europe, the real issue of the constitutional regulation of the movement of Czech troops on foreign territory or foreign troops on Czech territory is discussed at least ten years on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, is discussed in mutual commissions with the Senate. It is clear that some things need to be adjusted that they really do not correspond to today's development of the world, the way in which they work with our partners, especially from the North Atlantic Alliance, but also from other or security groups. So I recommend that we release this bill, the amendments to the Constitution, to the Constitutional Legal Committee. We will certainly still have to have some discussion with the Senate in order to actually find a text that would be passed through 120 votes in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate as well, but it seems necessary for us to approach the amendment to the constitution on military residence, their authorisation and other matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u11	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Radovan Vích will be the first to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u12	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, honourable colleagues, honourable Members of the Government. Amendment to Constitutional Act No. 1/1993, i.e. the Constitution of the Czech Republic, substantially amends Art. 43 constitutions, i.e. defense of our state. This amendment proposed by the Government repeals the mandatory consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and replaces it in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) both by decision of the Government of the Czech Republic and by decision of international organizations to which the Czech Republic is a member. This is quite detailed in the new text. a). In my view, it is not possible, in principle, to withdraw the powers of legislative power in favour of executive power, i.e. government, and, above all, to strengthen the power of international organization towards the Czech Republic. This would fundamentally undermine the division of power, the fundamental principle of the rule of law, while at the same time restricting the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. In a situation where conflict in Ukraine threatens to spread to other European territories at any time, as it turned out a few weeks ago, it is very dangerous to put in the hands of a government as powerful an instrument as sending soldiers into what operation without the House or the Senate discussing it. You need to keep a cool head. The current regulation is set up correctly, works, new regulation is not necessary. Let me just remind you that today the government has these powers in the event of sending troops into peacekeeping operations or rescue operations in natural disasters. If there is a problem and there is a need to discuss sending our troops quickly, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement has no problem attending such urgent action. The Chamber of Deputies can discuss urgent matters quickly in the order of hours, at most days. That is why I will sum up that the SPD has absolutely no reason to withdraw such significant powers from the Chamber of Deputies and to entrust it only to the government. This fundamental amendment to the Constitution must be rejected as a whole, and I therefore submit a motion for rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u13	Thank you, I've noted your motion to dismiss. Mrs Helena Válková will now speak. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. As a guarantor of the club of our ANO movement in relation to this very short and understandable, however, I would like to express my impact on the fundamental amendment to the Constitution, which, in detail, as we have divided our areas of interest, complements or divorces, rather divorce, and, above all, justify my colleague, Mr Metnar. My original recommendation was - neutral, because we all know what has been said very openly here, perhaps even brutally openly: it is about the accumulation of power in the hands of the government, and in this regard, even though all the practical reasons have also been repeatedly expressed here in the previous parliamentary term - and it is almost beyond human strength to allow the government to approve everything - on the other hand, we have experienced it ourselves, on the other hand, the situation, as we all see and feel, changes every day, accelerates and does not have to pay for the month. So this amendment, in fact, is changing this constitutional law for us here for a very long time, which guarantees that jurisdiction will be divided in these areas, which was discussed in detail here by Minister Černochová, through you, Madam Vice-President - although I may not have to do this, but I know that she is a fan of the formalities - so I agree with this, in the situation in which we are currently in, it really seems to be a matter of discussion. And that's why I'm pointing out my neutral position once more. I hope that the ensuing debate, which we should not reject today, will lead to some conclusions, and what previously seemed to be a clear and reasonable decision in another political situation, must currently be judged by the optics of the current, unpredictable, very surprising situation for us and its development in Ukraine. So for me, although I understand pragmatic and technical reasons and do not say in advance how I will vote - I was determined to vote in favour - I will listen to other suggestions and comments from colleagues and not just politicians' lawyers, and then I will make a final decision. So, on the one hand, I certainly do not want to complicate the government, which has an unenviable situation at present, to decide on many things that will have an impact on the future of this country, so I do not want to complicate it with an even more negative opinion, as has been said here by my previous speaker, Mr Vícha, by your means, Madam Vice-President, but I would not like to have this amendment by expressing our position on it in advance, as the Minister of Defence has also rightly mentioned here. I also point out that we must then achieve the necessary constitutional majority at the third reading. [[9.40 hours]] That's all on my side. I have not really embarked on any complicated legal justifications today, because here it is rather a question of political, security, although legal aspects, of course, given the wishes of us all, that the Constitution should apply in the long term in the form in which we now have it to intervene on a mature basis, that is certainly still true. And on the other hand, the situation that is now, sometimes requires measures of the kind proposed by the Secretary of Defense, so let's go to the debate. Personally, maybe I'll come forward one more time when I hear the arguments of the rest of you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u15	Thank you. Mr Vondráček is now in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, it is not every day that we discuss the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I do not want to go into individual legal arguments, from that is the debate in the second and then even in the third reading, but I still feel the need to say a few words. It's true we had a similar press here at 7:00. Even in the 8th term. I even think somewhere you'll find my signature under these designs. Twice it was a parliamentary proposal, now it's a government proposal. But from my private point of view, the world has changed over the past ten years, the overall situation in the world has changed, and the authority that we will discuss and discuss for executives, for the government for 60 days, is fairly general and broad. We must realise that the threat to life, health and property is already permanent in the world, and the consequences can be enormous. And here we are balancing two interests - an interest in some flexible and effective functioning that I supported, and then there is the interest of some democratic parliamentary control in our parliamentary democracy. That is why I think the ANO movement's position will be more reserved than perhaps the petitioners expected. We want to talk about the width of the authority that this can bring us. And I won't forgive a small remark. Our certain skepticism also stems from what the government coalition has demonstrated here over the past year. We have experienced repeated unprecedented abuse of the state of legislative emergency here. We've been here since the government shut down parliament when all the ministers left the hall. And one here in this context realizes how important parliamentary control and control of the parliamentary minority are, and this is one of the few areas where a truly parliamentary minority has the opportunity to significantly influence the legislative process, because there is a need for 120 votes that the coalition cannot overwhelm us with force. So I would like to start here by saying that I am looking forward to the debate, looking forward to the constitutional dimension of the debate, and please everyone take into account that the world has changed, the situation has changed, and the broad mandate of the government may be a bigger problem for us than it would have been a few years ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u17	Thank you. Now Minister Černochová has signed up for the debate and Mr Metnar will be prepared. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u18	Hello again for me. Maybe at the beginning one sigh. It was me in both elections as an opposition Member and with me my colleagues who wanted to give authority to your government, Mr Vondráček, through the Vice-President, my colleague, former Minister of Justice Válková. It was we, the opposition Members, who, although we could do politics on this, did not do it, and we wanted the government to have the authority on these issues, and that it should be every government, because it is a change in the constitution, it is indeed a change in the fundamental legislation of our country. And now you're actually getting into a position that you don't know how you're supposed to get out of that situation where you signed twice under my proposal, and you're arguing a completely irrationally impaired security situation. Well, well! When the security situation got worse, the need for the government to respond quickly on some issues, the need, the need for this step is much more urgent. So if I can really ask you, co-workers and colleagues, consider it, because maybe next term, you'll be here again. Perhaps there will also be a Mrs Černochová, who will fight timelessly for the same thing, so that, in cases where it is really about saving hostages, the lives of our citizens at risk abroad, so that both chambers of Parliament may not have to decide that Parliament's committees will be there to save those people. I'll show you a case or a story you might recall - it's the story of those two missing girls somewhere on the border with Pakistan. If we were to send troops to rescue these girls, we would have to decide this publicly, according to the current regulation, in Parliament's committees, both chambers of Parliament, so that, in fact, some possibility of rescue would be reduced. This proposal allows the government, but only for 60 days, to send to rescue them, attempt to rescue them, someone from the armed forces, and if it takes longer time for the House to decide this, of course. No one here is taking any authority from you, co-workers and co-workers. It's really in the constitution, only in the tax bill, the extended possibility of another case where the government decides. It surprises me a little, because I think that my colleague Vích and I have discussed these things quite often on the committee during the past period, and this really is not about removing the power of legislative power. The government has the power to broadcast today in those other cases and will not be able to broadcast into any operation. The legal power will continue to have control and will be able to cancel the broadcast at any time, so the current regulation certainly does not suit, as I mentioned here in this case, perhaps the two missing girls. And we're doing nothing but expanding it, and like we're not expanding it now for Petr Fiala's government. We wanted and were ready to expand it for the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and for the government of Andrej Babiš. And by the way, that's why your chairman signed this standard for me, because he felt it was something that was needed and needed for any government, not only now that you're in opposition, you're going to say something different than what you said two years ago. It makes me sad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u19	Thank you, and now Mr Vondráček will speak first with factual remarks, then Mr Mašek, and then Mr Metnar, signed up for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u20	Thank you. Madam Secretary, don't be sad. It just happens in Parliament that we're discussing here. So maybe I'll say it a little bit more flattered. You know, a certain motive for our restraint is your presence at the Ministry of Defence, and we are much more aware of the importance of the principle of "twice measure and cut" once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u21	Mr Mašek will speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u22	Madam President, colleagues, with non-Shalancing, he has said to himself what I wanted to say, my previous speaker, through Mr President, Mr Vondráček. I will add this: we remember ten years ago, two other governments, a completely different period and a completely different situation in the world. There we could really argue that we need to respond quickly and send some unit to rescue two poor girls abroad, but at the moment, when the conflict between the Russian Federation and Ukraine is raging east of us, and precisely in the person of the Minister of Defence - and here I mean, it is the Minister of Defence, we are supposed to take care of the defence of the Czech Republic, it is not the Ministry of War - so at this moment it is very important that Parliament retains its control over this matter of sending troops. And as some of the previous speakers have already been told, we are ready to arrive immediately in the order of hours, to fulfill our legal policy and to confirm the deployment of troops, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u23	Thank you. I ask Mr Metnar to be patient, we have one more factual one, Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to ask, because we are talking about a very fundamental issue here, which is not meant to be based on the reservations that have now been raised here against the current Minister Jana Černochová, but we are talking about setting the principle that the Defence Minister or the Defence Minister does not decide on these matters, whoever is there, the government decides on it, that is something that needs to be realised. And if the secretary here logically described the reasons, she also described the whole story of the preparation of this amendment to the Constitution, so I think it's quite logical that there is no change that would mean the need to look at the principles. We're talking about principles from the point of view of the current situation. I think that when people listened to us here in the debate, the Minister's explanation and logical arguments, then the argument was 'one time measure, two times cut', so I think that the person who follows the debate perceives that logic, given that we talked about this here in the previous two governments, is clear in favour of the security of the citizens of this country, more operationally, because there are moments when even hours can play a role. And to call the House, it also has some prerequisites, which is not called up entirely like this on the basis of a really very short and timely urgency. So I would like us to keep some room for how we think about these things, how we are talking about them publicly, because they are too serious to change the professional perspective here just because we switched, someone is currently in the coalition, and someone who was in the coalition is now in opposition. I'm begging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u25	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Prime Minister Fiala is still registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u26	The example of this debate shows why populism is so dangerous to society and the state. And what you're doing here, when you're actually able to change your mind about a rather substantial instrument, an instrument that helps save people's lives of Czech citizens, the security of the Czech Republic, just because you're not a government party, you're an opposition party, and just because you feel that this change of opinion will bring you more electoral votes, is an example of why populism is needed and why we have to convince people not to listen to populist parties and opinions and not vote. For particularly inappropriate - but perhaps it is not appropriate for me to do what seems particularly illegal from you - there are references to the work of the Minister of Defence, because, as Jana Černochová, as an opposition Member, has tried persistently to negotiate with the government and to convince her opponents that it is necessary to support government proposals precisely because they are in the interests of the Czech Republic and that we need to forget about intra-party conflicts or inter-party conflicts here, so is the Minister of Defence. From morning to evening, they try to ensure the security of the Czech Republic and strengthen our defenses. Your remarks in this matter - and these are not criticisms - are just such on the side of the remark, just so that you simply as toxicly touch the Minister - I consider it inappropriate and truly incompatible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u27	Mr Benda is signed up with another de facto. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u28	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, they have said a lot here. I really consider an attempt to judge the amendment of the Constitution by whether or not I am satisfied with the current minister, as childish and unworthy of this House. If you really think like that, it's unfortunate. I think so, we have the Secretary of Defense, who, after years, has been exposed to extremely difficult situations, has stood up to them. I don't blame the previous ministers who haven't been in such difficult situations, but this seems childish to me. I volunteered for another reason. After all, in all the debates that were going on, the main reason for inserting point (d) was the fact that we do not want it to be known publicly about some things. If I want to intervene on some territory, at sea, anywhere, by some military force, I can't let it vote in Parliament, where I know it's all public, that I've spoken up in advance and that I'm not going to fight any terrorist. And you're completely ignoring this. It seems really unfair to start a war that Putin started in Russia all of a sudden, and forget about the real reasons that we've been discussing here for, like, eight years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u29	Thank you. Mrs Peštová is now signing up with the facts. And before I give her my word, I'll read the apology. He apologizes to Kubík Jan from 10 a.m. to 9 for work reasons, Julius Špičák from 10 a.m. for work reasons and Vladimír Zlínský from 12 a.m. to 9 for work reasons. So many apologies. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. Prime Minister, that wasn't very fair of you either. My colleagues here have said their certain concerns, and instead - you need their votes, you don't have the constitutional majority - and instead of hearing their concerns, you start telling them something about populism. It's pointless, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u31	Thank you. Mr Brabec will make a point of fact, so far it is the last point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u32	Thank you. It's not really my subject, but I couldn't hear that, the atmosphere. And I know the Prime Minister who tends to calm things down sometimes or mostly, so now I think he's got an extraordinary talent for pouring oil into the fire. First of all, I think the Secretary of Defense, we all know her here over the years, she's not a fragile flower who can't defend herself, so she can definitely do it, and she's gonna say it. But my dear colleagues, we are really at first reading fundamental things, and I am also concerned that the fact that we allow ourselves to discuss this at all, even if we have an opinion about it in the past, and now we are changing it - I think that the politicians of the government coalition have also experienced this many times, that things are simply changing. Because the atmosphere is changing, we are immediately accused of populism and that we simply cannot afford it at all. Well, where are we? [[10.00 hours]] Please, let us also look at the context of your proposal, albeit for the time being, of the House's Rules of Procedure. We have to judge that too. The moment you're swaying something and not even hiding it, the one hundred and eight, then you can't blame yourself for the wind reaping the storm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u33	Thank you. The Prime Minister made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u34	I calm things down when it makes sense and atmosphere, but I defend my colleague when I feel that she is being attacked in a way that is simply not appropriate from my point of view, and I have the right to do so. And you have to learn that talking is about saying things that you don't like. Yes, there were times when you ruled here and your fellow Member, who was then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, took my word in the middle of the speech, and I could not finish what I should have said, and the Constitutional Court stated that you were acting against the law. Remember these things. Nothing like this is happening right now. You can discuss, you have the opportunity to express your views, no one criticizes you for it, but for the content of your sentences and for saying things that we disagree with, yet our reactions may follow, and we also have the right as a government to say what we think is right and appropriate, and to draw your attention to it and to alert the public that you have simply changed your mind on this crucial matter. And you changed it because you're in opposition now, and you think you can make political points on it. But as hostages here, you hold the security and defence of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u35	Thank you. Mr Bureš came forward with another factual action. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u36	Thank you, I'll be very brief. I think it is of interest to the Czech Republic that we have a modern but also an active army. We try to do a lot for modernization, it costs a lot of money, and I think we all agree on that in this Chamber of Deputies. Let's not forget the other part, the army must also be operational, and this is clearly a step for us to have that army of action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u37	Thank you. Your de facto brought about another de facto. Mr Vondráček has volunteered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u38	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond to the Prime Minister. I'm gonna ask you to put the debate back on its feet and talk about this press. It is not a good topic to bring up the Rules of Procedure and what happened in the past, because at this time too, you have shut down someone with priority rights and it was the subject of a constitutional complaint. But let's talk about the press. Look, I've got a 14-year-old son. He's about to be married. I don't know what the gate law will be, there's got to be his novel now, there's gonna be voluntary pre-determination, there's gonna be sub-constitutional regulations, there's gonna be rules, there's gonna be a general gate obligation. I'm just gonna do everything I can to keep him from being built so someone doesn't send him out without some kind of democratic control. If the Prime Minister thinks it's populism, let him think it, but I just feel it. I want to talk about the individual issues in the debate, like saving two girls - whether other security forces can do it, or whether the military has to do it, if you have to have the authority to send the entire army somewhere for 60 days, not just because of the armed conflict and the humanitarian crisis, but you know there may be other serious reasons in the other press. The authorization is really very broad. And all we've said is our reservation and we've behaved correctly, and the Prime Minister will come forward and he'll start to moralize us. He pissed us all off. You want our votes? Oh, great, you're doing great.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u39	Thank you. Prime Minister Fiala came forward with a point of fact. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u40	I welcome the return to substantive debate, but this certainly does not include, for example, the designation of Secretary of Defense as Secretary of War and such things. So if you avoid these populist formulas and insulting ones, we could undoubtedly have the debate from the beginning in a more factual tone that we all welcome, support and look forward to hearing the normal words, normal sentences and normal debate about this proposal from your side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u41	Thank you. Mrs Peštová will do another de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u42	Thanks for the word, it'll really be the last. Prime Minister, I may not have been a part of this Chamber of Deputies in the last parliamentary term, but the names and different names that fell to the government here were not at all beautiful to say so. And when I listened to my colleagues, all my previous speakers spoke in a calm tone, there was no hysteria, only there were words of concern, nothing else. And, yes, if anyone said Madam Secretary of War... I once called her that, and I listened to some screams in a row from the secretary. But I'm saying, they were talking in a calm tone, there was no hysteria, so let's really get back to the basics and let's talk about the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u43	Thank you and now it is Mr Metnar's turn to join the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u44	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Minister, allow me to try to get this debate back on the ground, and just before I say this: let me really note this, this is a change in the Constitution, so I hope that my speech will bring you to thought, because I will look a little deeper at these changes that are being made. The petitioner, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, justifies the necessity of this adjustment to the current need in response to the armed conflict in Ukraine and on the basis of the resolution, and other reasons given. It is important to say that, according to the petitioner, the proposal addresses not only the current need for a response to the armed conflict in Ukraine, but also the future issue of the deployment of the armed forces if it is necessary to implement them in an accelerated regime. The proposal should allow the Czech Republic to be better prepared to respond to threats and crisis situations that may unexpectedly come due to a fundamental change in the security environment. Let me repeat, the proposal specifically consists in adjusting the existing paragraphs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 11 constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. Its content is to supplement other reasons for which the Government can decide without Parliament's prior consent on the posting of the armed forces of the Czech Republic abroad and the stay of the armed forces in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 60 days. It is also proposed to amend the amendment of the authorisation of the transit of the armed forces of other States through the territory of the Czech Republic and their crossing over its territory, designed to ensure compliance of the text of the Constitution with the long-term and Parliament-accepted practice in deciding on the transits and crossings of the armed forces of other States. [[10.10 hours]] I am not only of the opinion that the amendment of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Constitutional Order should be treated more generally with restraint, and all changes should be made on the basis of a broad expert discussion, but if I just look at it briefly, this material has been subject to a reduced review procedure of 7 days. In spite of the shortened inter-reviewed commentary procedure, substantial comments were made on the basis of which the proposal acknowledged the changes to the present form. I therefore do not consider it a conservative approach to amending the Constitution in a seven-day inter-ministerial commentary procedure without professional political discussion. But let's keep going. Although this is a response to the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine, we must realise that this is not an ad hoc amendment, but a permanent change in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. It is therefore necessary to take particular account of the fact that this is an adjustment to situations affecting the security and defence of the State and its citizens with sufficient caution and therefore to give sufficient consideration to any risks that may arise from those changes in the future. For this reason, I have asked to draw up an expert's opinion on constitutional law, and I would like to mention in part some passages and opinions from his observations, which I fully agree with. In order to adapt the decision of the Government and, if necessary, Parliament's consent to the posting of armed forces abroad, the residence of foreign troops, transits and transits, it states that "it can generally be agreed with the appellant that the amendment is more of a legislative nature. However, the question is whether it is unnecessary, because in practice, the same purpose as the proposed regulation is achieved by a stable constitutional interpretation. If legislative immigration should be a reason for constitutional or legal changes, Parliament would be quite overwhelmed in this area. Thanks to the extensive scope of the proposal, the question is once again whether the authority for the government is too broad in the case of some transits and flights. Completely different material, political importance are the passage of military diplomacy or the transport of soldiers to exercises on the one hand and passes to combat action, albeit the permission of passage and transit of foreign armies does not mean the participation of the authorising state as war parties under international law, but it bears the risk of counteraction and can actually lead to the involvement of our state in war without Parliament agreeing to such action, which otherwise declares war. Even in the current Russian-Ukrainian war, Belarus has agreed to transit and transit for the Russian army for the attack on Ukraine. The political significance of such flights and transits is quite different from normal flights and transits which are not used to engage in combat activity, but are only a result of military diplomacy or transportation of soldiers and material, for example for exercise." Let us now come to the even more fundamental change, namely the possibility for the government to send armed forces for the protection of life and health, the threat of property values or the security of the Czech Republic without Parliament's consent for a period of 60 days: 'Extending the possibility of government on this provision is a fundamental change in Parliament's right to control war and peace'. [[Noise in the hall.]] "According to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Parliament decides to declare a state of war if the Czech Republic is attacked or if international contractual obligations are to be fulfilled on a joint defence against assault. This provision must be interpreted as meaning that in other cases war cannot be waged. Indirectly, the constitution anchors the ban on attack war. Since the democratically legal state determines the material real fulfilment of constitutional standards, and not only formal ones, it is necessary to consider the proposed extension of government law from this point of view also materially."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u45	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for interrupting. [[Member of the Metnar: Thank you.]] Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down. If you have something important, move the interviews to the foyer. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u46	Thank you, Madam President. "The provision in question allows a general and broad mandate for the Government to send armed forces abroad. Life, health and property are permanently at risk in the world, therefore the provision is very general and can lead to serious consequences. The first issue of the proposed resolution is that the reason for posting can be a threat to anyone's life and health, not just citizens of the Czech Republic. Although the explanatory memorandum on page 3 presents uniquely as an example of the use of life and health threats of citizens of the Czech Republic, it does not mention such restrictions in other places anymore. The actual wording of the Constitution is crucial when it absents the link to the lives and health of citizens of the Czech Republic in the proposal. If the proposed amendment is adopted, the Government shall be given the opportunity to send armed forces abroad at any time and wherever the Government finds that the lives and health of any people are at risk, in conjunction with the fact that it is not unlike point (b) of Article 2 (1) (b). 43 Requesting consent from the receiving state. The Czech Republic can declare war and wage war only because of its attack or under collective defence. Cases where a state of war can be declared pursuant to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Constitution must be regarded as taxative and with the fact that war and war cannot be declared for other reasons. It follows that even the government cannot be allowed to send armed forces abroad in a situation where a real war could take place. Therefore, the second issue of the proposal in conjunction with the fact that the draft amendment does not require the approval of the beneficiary State is the possibility for the Government to carry out armed intervention for property reasons. Protection of property abroad, although honestly acquired, cannot be a cause for war, because it would not be a war of defence, whether individual or collective defence. War over property abroad is not a war of defense, but offensive. Nationalization also took place in Czechoslovakia and was not considered a reason for armed intervention. Foreign countries have dealt with their property interests or the interests of their citizens through negotiations and international treaties. The third fundamental issue is the absence of the consent of the receiving State. The government will thus be given the opportunity to send armed forces for alleged threats to the life and health or property of the Czech Republic as well as against the will of the beneficiary state. However, such a state can quite rightly see the move as a military attack and proceed to legitimate defence. An argument to the contrary may be used as evidence of the danger to the Government of that authorisation. Let us put ourselves in a position if another state did so against our state. How would the Czech Republic assess a situation where a foreign state sends its armed forces into its territory without its consent, stating that lives and health or property values of that State are at risk? It is legitimate for our state to view such a move against its will as an act of aggression that can defend itself in a defensive, legal and legitimate war. This is a fundamental violation of Parliament's right to declare war. Although the government can only send armed forces for 60 days, but if it sends them without the consent of the receiving State, which the draft constitutional law allows, the government can, in principle, put the state in a situation where Parliament's right to declare war. If an armed action is not agreed by the receiving state and evaluated as an attack on its sovereignty, there will be a state of war between the states under international law and without proper declaration of war and war under our constitution precisely because of the action of the armed forces of our state, which the state concerned will evaluate as an attack. Once this situation arises, after 60 days, there is nothing our Parliament can do about it unilaterally. The war can be unilaterally initiated, but no longer unilaterally terminated. [[10.20 hours]] It is true that already in the present case, Article 4 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 does not apply. This Regulation shall enter into force on the (c) it allows the armed forces to participate in rescue work in natural disasters, industrial or environmental accidents, it does not require the consent of the receiving State, as opposed to point (b), which allows the secondment to participate in peace operations. However, this is also a mistake and it is not right to extend this error, but it is also appropriate to make the transmission referred to in point (c) conditional upon the consent of the receiving State." To conclude, therefore, although the text of the Constitution is not ideal, this part of the Constitution is not considered to be inoperable. Any confusion of the text has been resolved over time by a stable interpretation of individual constitutional provisions. From this point of view, it is therefore questionable whether the proposal is really urgent and necessary. The new power of the government to send armed forces abroad for the protection of the life, health and property of the Czech Republic without the consent of the receiving state is very questionable for the above reasons and especially dangerous. In this proposal, there are various interests in this law that need to be balanced. In this issue, there is an interest in flexible decision-making, which requires the involvement of executive bodies, and not of broad and numerous institutions of the type of parliament. However, it is a democratic interest that fundamental political issues, which certainly include the issues of war, peace and decisions that can lead to war, should be co-solved by an authority with direct democratic legitimacy, which is Parliament. This is a clash of flexibility, action and a request for a decision by an institution directly created by citizens, i.e. the choice of Members of Parliament. The regulations are very different abroad, which is also mentioned in the explanatory report of the Government's draft constitutional law, and a pattern can be found for each solution abroad, while some states do not address this issue at constitutional level and leave it to ordinary law or international treaties. For example, a much narrower authority than the government in Slovakia, where it can decide to send troops abroad for a maximum period of 60 days only in case of fulfilment of collective defence obligations. In the constitutional regulation dealt with by the Constitutional Bill under consideration, it must be based on whether it is appropriate and to what extent that the government should deal with the matter or, on the contrary, better involve Parliament. It must be remembered that this is a constitutional regulation, so it should not be a decisive relationship with the current government or parliament, because the text of the Constitution will remain, while the composition of both the Government and Parliament is subject to change. In addition, the government has the same rights with the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies and the government without the trust of the Chamber of Deputies. If there are certain rights given to the government, there may be a situation where neither the parliamentary majority can control them, because the government will rule without trust, and such a period can be long. As an example, I will mention the government of Jiří Rusnok, 2013 to 2014. It is clear that Parliament's synergies are to remain in democracy for fundamental issues. However, what these fundamental questions are when sending troops abroad may be the subject of a political dispute. The possible solution is also to involve them in a decision alongside the President's Government, which also has direct democratic legitimacy from direct elections as a parliament. This corresponds to his authority as Chief Chief of Armed Forces, while his decision-making as an individual body is swift and flexible. If he decides in cooperation with the government on a proposal from the government or government with the approval of the President, the decision will have greater democratic legitimacy and greater political consensus. There are still a number of examples that there might be more, but I do not want to delay the discussion, if necessary, and so let me thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Válková is registered. [[The Secretary of Defense is also reporting for the floor.]] Yes, but it's a matter of fact. Make a deal, ladies. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u48	I'll have it really brief. Only when I turn around, except for the Minister, I don't see a minister. [[Mr. Benda shows more ministers.]] Oh, sorry, now I see. Now I see, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u49	It's almost crowded here, Madame, as far as ministers are concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u50	Four even, so this factual remark will be even shorter, because I think that what we have been called for has just now been said, so it is not populism, concrete substantive comments and proposals to add, I have thus understood how to think about supplementing the constitutional amendment, for example in terms of consent, or, at least, to include the information of the state to which the extended powers of the government might possibly touch. The reasons here, Mr Metnar, discussed in detail the reasons, so let us discuss whether such additions come from your point of view too, Madam Secretary, the Coalition Members, or whether and why and for what reasons you do not consider it appropriate. Of course, it is also possible to hold this discussion in the second reading, if this press, which I do not doubt, is allowed into the next reading. And I'm sorry I don't need glasses, dear Minister of Education, for the time being, to see the ministers, but I need to look back, which I didn't look back closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u51	Thank you. Now with a factual or preferential right, Madame? Yes, with priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u52	Thank you. They're hiding all over the room, Mrs. Válková! I have to respond to my predecessor at the Department of Defense, Mr. Metnar. Not one of his colleagues may have told Mr Metnar, or he has not noticed in four years that, under his leadership, the details of the draft were prepared for the Constitution, which was much, as was rightly said here, much more benevolent to what the government should do. The fact that, in the legislative process, it has been adjusted a little bit to make it exactly as my colleague Válková said, in order to balance it out, I don't think you've noticed! Mr Metnar, by your means, when I was chairman of the Defence Committee, we discussed this standard several times. You have made several comments on the record in the sense that you are very supportive of the amendment, that you need it and that it was late yesterday. So if maybe some ginkgo biloba or something wouldn't help to strengthen your memory, because I'm sorry that with one year's distance someone could change their mind in this way, and that someone here for four years was the defense minister that I supported and helped him as chairman of the committee as much as I could. [[Speech of disapproval of Members YES 2011, banging on benches.]] [[10.30 hours]] Perhaps I would add one more thing to my colleague, Mr Metnar, to perhaps try to think about it. How good would it be for you, my colleague, through Madam Vice-President, to have this amendment of the Constitution at the time you were withdrawing our troops from Afghanistan? You wouldn't have to - and you know that it wasn't comfortable with the constitution, I would never have read it to you in my life, because I'm not you, and I tried to support you on the contrary - and although we know that there really was a lot beyond the law of what you did back then, the result was positive that none of our soldiers died, on the contrary, they all got to the Czech Republic. But whether it was in harmony or not in accordance with the Constitution, you deal with your conscience. Then I'd like to ask one more thing. Let us not be afraid that the Czech Republic will now enter into conflict or abuse it in custody of the war in Ukraine. It won't. Here, the former minister should not really be haunted in this spirit, because he knows - or at least he might know it from his colleagues in the government who have worked with him in the past, because nothing changes here - that some guarantees of anything are rather ridiculous at this point in the world outside the East region are so-called failed states, i.e. collapsed states, and these collapsed states, where justice cannot be enforced, there are some guarantees of anything more ridiculous and in these circumstances it is really necessary to protect our citizens, who are there for some reason, work there or simply travel and can be abducted into those countries. And that's what this standard is all about. So I am really sorry that the biggest criticism of this amendment was that someone under whose leadership his department was preparing the amendment thanked me several times on the Defence Committee for presenting it as an opposition MP because they lack votes because you were actually ruling with the support of the Communists, and that you are actually very grateful that I decided to bypass my fellow Members to get those signatures. So, really, thank you, Mr. Metnar. I think everyone who listened to you has taken a picture of your opinion fort alone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u53	Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, we have replaced ourselves in the management of the meeting and will continue to discuss this point. I have here one factual remark from Mr Metnar, otherwise no one is yet logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u54	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. There's no way I'm gonna bring my contribution, my statement, to a personal level-- gingko biloba-- not even this thanking the minister with the flower-- of course, if I had it, I would -- but I want to say one thing. The fact that I didn't know something like this was being prepared for the resort is a really ridiculous argument. And let us say this: precisely because I knew it, and precisely because it was in the state in which it was, and precisely because it was not discussed, all aspects of this amendment to the Constitution were not prepared and did not get it for me - that was your activity, Madam Secretary. So I just want to say that as far as this is concerned, it's not about it being a whole series of other things that are unfinished, but let's discuss it, let's not let it go through the seven-day commentary process, and then on Friday we think it'll pass in ten minutes, that no one will have any comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u55	Thank you. At present, I do not see any further applications for the general debate. If this is the case, I am done with the debate. I want to ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final words? Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u56	Thank you. I would like to ask, because if a colleague here argued with some opinion, so if it is possible, and he refers to some reputable constitutional lawyer, it wouldn't be a matter of speaking the name of the constitutional lawyer, because I have a whole range of other opinions of other constitutional lawyers with whom the proposal has obviously been consulted, so perhaps it would be part of some of this House's bondson, if that particular constitutional lawyer had mentioned it, if Mr Metnar here refers to him for ten minutes in the legal analysis. I would perhaps even mention that it was not only for Mr Metnar, when this proposal was supported by the Ministry of Defence. This proposal was also supported by the current Israeli Ambassador, Mr Martin Stropnický, who was actually the first of the ministers to call for this change. And as I said before, it was two parliamentary periods, eight years ago, two governments, the government of Bohuslav Sobotka and Andrej Babiš, who wanted this standard. Probably the better source was the defence committee to initiate this. This was the case, the Defence Committee after submitting a proposal from the Ministry of Defence from fellow Members of Mr Metnar, before Mrs Šlechtová and actually former Minister Stropnický, so we had the documents, we knew very well as members of the committee why we were submitting the proposal. It wasn't really any of us sneaking around. We wanted to help the government deal with the situation, and we wanted to help address the situation to those of our fellow ministers who, in some unpleasant situations, can actually get to the edge or beyond the edge of the constitution, such as unfortunately, because of the very rapid download in Afghanistan or in other cases. So I take it these are things that are super-partisan, which are de facto super-government, because if we're going to do some kind of policy on security and defense here, it's always wrong. And that's why I'm ready to debate, and I'm happy to argue with what Mr. Metnar here said. Only if I could ask to know what constitutional lawyer and constitutional right expert we should appeal to, if the former Secretary of Defense, Metnar, a fellow Member of the Metnar, could say the name of the constitutional lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u57	Thank you. I want to ask the rapporteur if he wants to take the final floor. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. Before we vote on individual proposals, I will call my colleagues from the lobby. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Andrea Babišová apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, from 10 to 10.30 for working reasons Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, from 12 o'clock for health reasons Mr Jan Lacina apologises and from 11 o'clock for working reasons Mrs Marie Pošarová. During the debate, there was a motion to reject Mr Vích. We will be the first to vote on this proposal. I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to sign you out and ask you to sign up with your cards... The number has stabilized, so I'll put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion to reject the motion tabled? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 73, 165 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 16, against 93. This proposal was rejected. [[10.40 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Mr. Metnar. I'm begging for a counterproposal. [[He's taking it back for now.]] Okay, now we're dealing with the guarantee committee, then we're going to deal with other committees for the commandment. I do not see any proposal to amend the guarantee committee, so we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 74; 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 166, against no one. The proposal has been approved. This proposal was ordered to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but Mr Metnar is reporting. [[A Member of the Potter is reporting.]] Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, is this for the vote? Please, first of all, to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u58	Thank you. He's just to vote 73. I voted in favour, and I've got a "staying" at the junk. I'm not questioning the vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u59	Thank you, only for the tape. Now, Mr Metnar, with a motion for a commandment to the next committee, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Next thing I know, I'm gonna order it to the defense committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u61	Thank you. Are there other suggestions for the commandment to other committees? [[Member Cogan reporting.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u62	Given the fact that this is an amendment to the Constitution, there has been a rather extensive discussion here today, and I certainly welcome that we continue to discuss this point. However, I think that we should also stand up to this on the committees, not in the sense that you need to, but we should say to ourselves: we, as a state, the Czech Republic, need and let us look for a possible match. I would therefore like to order a permanent commission for the Constitution of the Czech Republic to be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u63	Thank you. I made a note of the proposal. Mr. Ryba, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u64	Mr President, colleagues, because I think that, in its consequences, the change in constitutional law may also concern internal security as such, I propose a Committee on Security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-005-007.u65	Thank you. Is there any other motion for a commandment to discuss committees? It's not like that. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. First of all, who agrees that this proposal should be ordered to discuss the Security Committee? [[The question of what committee it is.]] Security Committee. I take suggestions from behind the way they came. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 75; 166 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 78, against proposal 36. This proposal has not been agreed with. I will now put to the vote that this law should be discussed in the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. I have some factual points here. I'm going to delete those because we're in the voting process. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who, for the commandment, is a standing committee for the Constitution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 76; 166 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 159, against proposal 2. We have ordered this law to be discussed by the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. Now, the final motion on the command of the Defence Committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the defence committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 77, 166 Members and Members registered, for proposal 161, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Permanent Commission for the Institute and the Defence Committee as the next committee. Since no further proposals have been made in the debate and we have voted on all of them, I will conclude this item and thank you. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
