ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u1	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 50th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. To record our involvement, I'll check you out first. So I'm signing everyone off, and I'm asking you to sign up again with your I.D. cards. I also ask you to tell me who is asking for a replacement card, and I announce that with a replacement card number 38, Mr Staněk will vote. Furthermore, Babiš asked the following Members to excuse their absence from today's meeting for personal Jan, Bělobrádek Pavel from 14 hours for family reasons, Bělor Roman until 11 hours for work Kučera, Bžoch Jaroslav from the Wenzl Milan for family reasons, Decroix Eva from the whole day for work reasons, Exner Martin from 12 hours to 15 hours for work reasons, Flek Michal from 12 hours for health reasons, Hájek Jiří from the Krutáková Jana for Helena Vondrák, Šimon volný from 12.30 for working reasons, Jáč Ivan from 16 hours for Quittová Václav, Janulík Petra from the whole day for foreign reasons, Kazalín David from the whole day for working reasons, Kašník Pavel from the whole Andrej for the whole day for medical Ivo, from the liška day for the whole day for work, Klíma Pavel from 11 to 14 hours for the whole Rais Karel, for the whole day for the whole day of work. [[Members of the Government:]] Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Síkela Jozef from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk from 10 to 11 hours for working reasons, Šalomoun Michal from 12 o'clock for working reasons. In the meantime, Minister Balaš Vladimír's apology arrived from 12.30 pm for work reasons and Jan Lipavský for the whole day for work reasons. We have thus settled the apologies that have been made so far, and today's negotiations should be initiated by firmly ranked points, which is... [[Member Cogan reporting.]] I'm picking up an application with priority rights. I suggest I just read the sum of the points first. So far, we have a fixed point 138, a proposal for Economic Rules; then paragraph 135, a confirmation of the Committee Chair; paragraph 91, that is surveying; point 2, investment companies and funds; point 15 on routes and then point 16, the abolition of obsoletal legislation. The reports would follow - paragraph 102 and paragraph 131 and then continue with other points from the Report block, proposals and other points, up to paragraph 130. We would then, if necessary, continue to discuss points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. However, there is now room for proposals to amend the agenda, and I am giving Mr Cogan the right of priority. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose only a slight adjustment to the agenda, and to move point 16, which is now ranked sixth in order, to order number 3. This is a press of 347, abolishing obsolete laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u3	Thank you, so this would follow point 135, you're suggesting that point 16 go after him. Thank you. I'll make a note of it. Thank you. Anyone else on the agenda? I don't see with priority, which means we're going to apply. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is applying for an amendment to the approved programme. I will just say the order, then Mr Kamal Farhan and then Mr Mašek. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first justify my proposal to add a point to the agenda. I will now, through you, turn to Minister Černochová. Yesterday, we asked you - our Madam President - to apologize for the inappropriate words. You didn't do it, which didn't surprise me, because I've heard here in the past period that we haven't touched Mrs. Markéta Pekarová Adamová's ankles, but I was shocked by what happened after that. You have spread that insult to nearly two million voters and supporters of Andrej Babiš. Let me quote what you said yesterday: "Let me read this e-mail to you, because the e-mail shows that your supporters are able and willing to do everything for the YES movement, as slaves. " I speak in a calm voice here, because that's how I speak to my patients, who are comforting, I can't speak in emotions, I guess how used you are to your ministry now. And that is why I call on the Minister, since you have no longer apologized to us, apologize to the two million supporters of Andrej Babiš. I therefore propose an apology to Secretary of Defense Cernochová to two million citizens and supporters of Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u5	Thank you. I have a motion for a new item, and now in turn, Mr Kamal Farhan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government. I'll take the liberty of reading a new point, it's about health care. We are currently dealing with a lack of doctors, a lack of drugs, and a prolonged waiting period. I would very much like to think of one topic today, and these are sanitary services, regional sanitary services. The change in the hygiene system was promised in the spring of last year that it would be presented in paragrafo in the autumn of last year. This has not yet happened, and I believe that this will be presented to us this year with at least one year's delay or six months' delay. At present, we are in the breakdown of sanitary services, completely lacking doctors. There are currently seven doctors at the head of regional health care stations, the remaining seven are non-medical. Due to incompetence of driving and low pay assessment of remaining doctors, other doctors leave. In the future, the system will not be fully staffed. The promised financial appreciation, the advantage of these employees, has vanished and nothing has happened from strengthening the stations. The government has cut 134 seats at the sanitation stations for this year. I don't understand the Ministry's communication even towards the health stations. For years, these institutions have been on the verge of political concern, which has come back to us in times of pandemic. I believe that the fight against pandemics is far from over, and yet Petr Fiala's government has decided to drain its blood through hygiene. The absurdity of this decision is underlined by the fact that dozens of employees will be released by the government as a result of taking back dozens of officials to the Office of the Government and three newly established virtual ministries. 100 million on health care workers' salaries had to be cut off in the fight against the deficit, so that the government would newly spend 70 million on unnecessary officials for useless ministers that were never needed in the past. This destruction of hygiene is not enough for the Minister of Health, and within this winding-up process he headed for another attack on hygiene. He wrote to all health care stations that five of them would end up in a slight surplus, which is a success in the current economic situation, that at all some hygienes were able to manage a slight surplus. But the absurdity of this letter is that he immediately writes to them: But this money needs to be redistributed, so it's gonna take it away from them again. Here, once again, you can see the incompetence of the Minister of Health in saying that at health care stations meetings, I quote: "You will be able to use unused funds in the following period if you manage to save. " Now here we see that there are no entries from the health department's board, because the record says that they will be able to use unused funds, on the other hand, a letter from the Ministry of Health goes to hygiene, that these funds must be redistributed to others. As Petr Fiala's government by its decision systematically liquidates the sanitation service, I propose a new point, which I called the krizový Situation in Regional Hygiene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u7	Thank you. My point is marked. Next, Mr Mašek's proposal to amend the programme is submitted, and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u8	Madam President, Prime Minister, honourable ministers, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to sign up with the proposal for a critical situation in drug supply, what is the government's solution to drug shortages? There are currently no antibiotics, antipyretics, analgesics, and problems with a number of other medicines such as diabetes medications, cytostatics, and others. The situation is the worst in the last 30 years, on which the professional public agrees, and unfortunately also the general public who are struggling with this lack of medicine. We've known since the summer. There's been talk about it here in Parliament, there were articles about it. I will recall an article on the Novembers in the second half of October that describes the situation exactly, describes the problems, predicts the lack of medication, and there was no reaction. So we know this at least in the whole nude since the end of October, and almost nothing has happened. Only when there was an absolute crisis, and this was in mid-December, so the Minister applied for it, he created a working group that began to meet regularly and began to address the problem. I understand that the Ministry cannot resolve this by waving the wand, but it should have worked on it longer and, from my point of view, it slept quite clearly. Those dozens of drugs that are missing so far, the government is trying to deal with extraordinary imports, such as antibiotics. Currently managed to import, and this is true, 10,000 packages of V-penicillin from Slovakia. But be careful, it's a half-way solution again and it has to be admitted that this medicine has not been fixed. People have to buy this antibiotic for their worth more than 100 crowns per package. I would therefore like to include this point, and I would like Professor Válek to come forward and explain the situation. I know that some steps have already been taken, Professor Válek, Prime Minister and representatives of Zentiva have met, and perhaps some solutions are being sought. But the solutions should be clearly declared here, so that people know when the drugs will be, because the information is from Sumava to Tatras, from that it will be in March, and then the more realistic ones will be able to get the drugs for the next season. These are questions that should be answered by both the Prime Minister and Minister Válek, as it will eventually be with the activation of their own pharmaceutical industry, as it will be with cooperation within the European Union, because we are cursed by the fact that drugs are not throughout the European Union. From my point of view, in this spirit, we have squandered the Presidency in the sense of this coordination when we have known about the problem since summer, how sufficient orders will be dealt with for the next season and how it will be done with extraordinary imports if these imports take place in order to ensure that the amount of the payment is timely, so that people do not have to pay unnecessary medicines. So, as a result of what I'd like to see the government today, they're going to assure citizens how they're going to deal with it, and especially when the drug shortage situation is going to be resolved. I would like to place this point as the second point in today's negotiations. I said the title at the beginning: Critical situation in drug supply, what is the government's solution to drug shortages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u9	Thank you, including the letter. Minister Válek came forward with priority rights. I'm just saying that we're still on the subject of proposals to change the agenda. We have two Members duly registered in writing, from the point of view to the conclusion. Please, with priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I will be happy to see all the points that apply to patients being included, but I cannot anticipate how my colleagues and colleagues will vote and, therefore, just in case. Of course, doctors won't be hygiene. The reason is very simple, it's the medical study that's over. What isn't can't be. Today, this study is just a master's, a bachelor's. I understand that not everyone knows, so just to make the formation clear. Doctoral hygiene studies, the hygiene doctors that we elders knew, will never be, because it doesn't work, it doesn't exist, it's not in any college. There's an uninterested test left. The number of candidates who want to choose the certificate is over. Therefore, a new study has been opened for a long time, and it is the study of public health, public health, and that is the transformation of hygiene that is taking place. koneckonců all, my colleagues led by Professor Adámková with Professor Špičák and others here in the previous period pointed out that there is a need to change the situation in the Czech Republic. And from that historical hygiene and nutrition, which was the field of making what is the standard in the world, public health. And it's a good thing we're moving it this way. [[9.20 hours]] I'm very pleased to meet you at the Ministry with the Health Committee. The meeting of the Health Committee is public, of course any of you can take part in it, and there we will certainly discuss these matters with the Chief Hygiene and Deputy Minister Pavlovic, who is in charge of everything, and with others. I think we're going to explain some of the letters that were quoted here. She's not true, I've dealt with it in a meeting, but I don't think there's any point in dissecting it unless the point is open because there's no way to react here right now, but we'll explain it to the Ministry. As far as drug parties are concerned, I agree that the State Drug Control Office, this is the office, which has over 500 employees, i.e. roughly 100 more than the Ministry of Health, which my esteemed colleagues from the Health Committee know very well, so he overslept, or his director slept over. Yes, she didn't respond in July, she didn't react in June, she didn't react in September, she didn't respond in October and in mid-November, on the contrary, she reported to the public, just like the Ministry repeatedly. The situation is completely under control, which is why the state has this regulator, which is why the State has the State Office for Drug Control, as well as the State radiation protection regulator, the State Office for Nuclear Safety. And if the organ, the experts of the organ, his management, repeatedly says that everything is okay, and then it turns out that it's not okay, then, of course, the state has to look for alternative paths, which we did immediately when the situation occurred, and I think the drugs are getting enough. I have new information from today, deliveries from Sandoz Antibiotic - over 150,000 packages we managed to speed up by almost one and a half months. I checked with other chains yesterday that the drugs are in each category, at least one medicine. Moreover, we are also working to strengthen the prescription for medicine, such as Ibuprofen. Yesterday we visited doktor Max's big labs, which supplies practically 250, I mean pharmacies, or even 500 pharmacies, which he prepares as originality, magistrates. It is something that is the specific of the Czech Republic, very strong and good and it supports the market again. So I would just like to say on these two points, if they are to be included - certainly, we can certainly discuss them, however, even if they are not, I am extremely looking forward to meeting the health committee at the Ministry of Health with all the experts of the Ministry. I'll be happy to invite anyone you want from the Health Committee to be there to explain the details. And once again, the committee's deliberations are public. It will certainly be interesting if he participates in another one that burns these problems as much as I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u11	Thank you. I'm just saying, for the record, that there was no draft of a new point, and we're still on the agenda, changing the show. And Mr Vondráček is now registered. Mrs Adámková can also prepare herself and conclude with Mr Nacher's position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u12	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I was performing here yesterday, especially I don't like to repeat myself. Yesterday, I also had a resolution prepared here that could end our discussions on combating the disinformation and approach of this government. During the debate - the debate yesterday, because only those who suggested a point were actually speaking, after all, a lot of other information was heard and one information was, say, financial, so I would like to draw attention to this page and suggest another new point that may be interesting and maybe get the necessary number of votes. Yesterday, we learned from Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová that some 30 million were spent or spent on another wave of government publicity about how the government is doing it well and why citizens should like it. I'd like to remind you that it hasn't been that long since the next campaign took place. It was said to cost 24 million and was again actually concentrated to promote the government. Then we learned that there was an action plan to combat misinformation that experts said would cost at least 150 million crowns. The $100 million is intended for so-called independent media, which will be paid out of government money to be properly independent, and $50 million is intended for non-profit NGOs that will be paid by the government and will be non-profitable, although they are therefore fully professional and will also support the individual ones, as they say today, the government's narratives. In addition, we have learned that what we already know is that there is, of course, a department of the government agent for the fight against misinformation, against misinformation at the Office of the Government, which was created by the Crisis Information Team at the Ministry of the Interior. And according to the interview of the director, the director of this KRIT, there is to be a specific department in each ministry that will be dedicated to this topic. It's all a lot of money, and if I just take the 150 million, now the 30 million, now the 24 million that's already been spent, that's huge money. Perhaps, on a scale of two trillion of this state's spending, it seems like nothing to you, and I think I just stacked you a quarter of a billion, a quarter of a billion to be spent in this area. And for me, it's huge money, especially from the perspective of some sports section or social services perspective, which was also said here yesterday, and we are justifiably trying to open this topic here in the Chamber of Deputies. I did not want anything else yesterday for the House to receive all the documents so that we could speak transparently here in plenary on these issues. You rejected this point, failed. It's just that we should talk about it that we didn't get away with it. At this point, I've had several speeches, several requests for an extraordinary meeting point. I've had several interviews, and so far I have one specific answer, the Home Secretary, who at least told me how much money works in that KRIT and in what regime. That's all I've learned since then, and that's very, damn little. We're really interested in what these officials are doing here, what the financial plan is, what the financial plan is, what it's going to cost us, how many people are going to work on it and what it's going to pay. These officials are currently engaged in specific communication. All I'm gonna give you here is a seed bead that there are communications recommendations for the war and the energy crisis of 7. 9. where on page 11 it says that the authors here complain a little bit that the Čech do not admit that the Czech Republic is also at war with the Russian Federation. So they're complaining that things aren't going so well - or something has been left out by Parliament and the government because we haven't declared a war yet, but they're just complaining that these people don't accept it and they don't feel like they're at war. In connection with the fact that the Prime Minister of this country has already declared on 27 February that we are at war, I ask a little bit incisively who is haunting the war and who is calling or who is calling for peace. In short, and I understand that the question or discussion is off-limits and we will come across a lot of topics, but please include a new item Financial plan to combat misinformation and government promotion and some feedback. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u13	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Adámková to prepare Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to you with a request to place two points, in my opinion, non-conflict and apolitical. As is my custom, one is clearly about health care, and the other is about health care, and although it may seem to you at first sight that it does not, but it has everything to do with everything. The first point that would be - dental care in the Czech Republic - is undoubtedly medical. I get dozens of requests a week - probably to you too, of course - about the fact that one cannot have dental care provided. They point out again that it is apolitical, because we all have teeth, so somebody doesn't have them, somebody has them, but in any case everyone is dealing with it. The problem is that people think that insurance can solve this, but that's not true. We can only treat those colleagues who have an insurance contract, and I believe that it would be obvious, so I am asking for inclusion, to give some kind of support to the Minister of Health. Many important things could arise in this discussion, many suggestions, how do we get more dental care available here? [[9.30 hours]] For those who are not concerned - and I believe that not everyone is interested - so the child is actually starting to be in the care of a dentist, and the first thing he already gives him most of his insurance company is an examination in the first year when he can reveal some big problems. Then, to some extent, this is already up to the parents. Again, many of you are young or did not deal with health care - we all welcomed those activities in 1990, that dentists will be like really alone and autonomous and so on, thinking that, first, there will be enough of them, maybe it was a naive idea, and secondly, that parents will choose very responsibly. These fantasies haven't exactly come true, as you can see after 30 years. First, dentists, as Professor Šmucler claims, are sufficient - and I will not argue with him because he probably knows better - but they are not available. So I believe that this issue is very delicate and I ask for the inclusion of this point if it will be ranked as the first point after the fixed points, because there I do not see anything that could be from politics, because the teeth hurt equally all left, right, middle, top and south. So, thank you very much for this. And the second point I'm loading from this counter right here is the point that brought in the morning's ten e-mails, and it's a big problem, and that's the availability of clinical psychologists for children, please. I don't care about adults anymore as children, or the second point would be the availability of the care of clinical psychologists in pediatrics. Reason? For one thing, there are many of them, but from today I have some specific schools where the number of foreigners reaches more than the number of Czech children, so in those classrooms the teacher is not teaching well, the assistants there are more than bearable, or there is no money on them, and it turns out that these children are beginning to have behavioral disorders, parents don't know how to do it, they have impaired benefits, they have headaches, but this is not a pediatrician issue, so pediatricians specifically call for availability or coordination or at least some recommendation on how to deal with the availability of clinical psychologists in pediatrics. This is not easy, the clinical psychologist must meet significantly stricter criteria than the adult psychologist. And since many of you here, of course, are at different levels of self-government and you know well that they are going through the health board and so on, so I ask very much for this point because, in turn, it would be a support for both the ministries of education and health, because they could then talk to you from the field on this particular topic. So please place the second point, and this is the availability of the care of clinical psychologists in pediatrics as the second point after fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u15	Thank you. And before closing the time for applications, the order has changed, because Mr Berkovec has written in writing, he is given priority over the application from the place, and then I am just saying, it is already closed, then Mr Nacher and Mrs Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u16	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant day. The fact that I logged in and asked for the next item is the current message I intercepted on the List a moment ago. The Toyota Motor Manufacturing Cologne plant announced yesterday that it was stopping production for one month. I'm sure you can all imagine what that means. They are not only thousands of cars produced, but they are mainly thousands of people employed, thousands and hundreds of suppliers, dozens of companies, dozens of subcontractors. So I would very much like us to place on the agenda of this meeting a point called the Crisis Plan of the Government concerning the cessation of production in major companies operating in the Czech Republic, so the Crisis Plan of the Government concerning the cessation of production in major companies operating in the Czech Republic. It doesn't matter where, after fixed points, but I consider it very important not only in terms of economic but mainly social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u17	Thank you, i.e. on the basis of the fixed points, it was said. And now Mr. Nacher has arrived. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will still have the same point, but I will take advantage of the Minister of the Interior here. That point is called Government Information on Combating Disinformation. Yesterday, I described this place in detail as to what I was trying to do. It's not just the money, it's what my colleague Vondráček was talking about, I'm not going to repeat that, the 50 and 100 million. It's a principle, a strategy, or a tactic when it's some kind of short-term thing. What is the role of KRIT, what is the role of individual people? I was here yesterday describing what I didn't like about the analyses of František Vrábel, which you often refer to in disinformation. I'm picking up another new misinformation today that I support in the election. It's already on Facebook and Twitter. You've all always hated the Prime Minister's pictures of him supporting Andrej Babiš and others, and now I'm picking up something the other way around with my picture. I'll make my point in a minute. That means it's running permanently as in the presidential campaign, ahead of her, after her, it's going to run all the time, but it needs to be distinguished by misinformation, exaggeration and unpleasant information, as I said, so we don't consider the unpleasant information that's unpleasant for the government to be misinformation. So I'm going to ask you if, unfortunately, we're going to end today, as I understand it, so it's not even possible to include it - that we would put it on Friday or Thursday, so today as the last point, perhaps at a fixed time at 1:30, unless there's something else, Madam Vice-President, I don't know, fast Government information about combating misinformation. That seems fair to me, and we'd know what you're up to, how you see it - I was explaining it here, Minister, yesterday. If you do not repeatedly hear it and tell the Chamber of Deputies what is behind it, then real misinformation may arise. Maybe someone will tell you that you're preparing something you're not actually doing, so it's in your interest to say some basic things here. I have also heard about the interest of some, even coalition Members, that we should discuss this on the electoral committee. I'm not a member of the election committee. Let's just come up with a--and that's up to you-- some platform where Members and the opposition will learn what the government on this matter, which if it doesn't have some boundaries and dimensions from the start, it can actually turn into manipulation or censorship over time. So let me ask you, the government's basic information on the fight against misinformation. If there's nothing else, then for a fixed time today at 13.30 or 13 hours, alternatively, so that someone wouldn't take my word for it, that I just picked the wrong time, that if I picked another one, it would be possible to include it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u19	Thank you, I am marked, and Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is the last to change the agenda of the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, yesterday I took a stand on the PR government in the context of the government's decision to spend 30 million of taxpayers' money. This item has not been approved. Every time I put that post on Facebook, people write to me, and they're very concerned that there are no government members here. There's a relatively large number of them today, including the Prime Minister, so I'm not going to place that point, because I'm assuming that one of them is going to step up and say that these funds are going to be spent on it and at this time. [[9.40 hours]] But at this point, I would like to open up an up-to-date topic, and that, of course, is the decisive presidential election at the moment. And by having the Home Secretary here and hearing from the president of our club that yesterday we agreed on the grémia - or agreed, we do not agree - that there will be an interpelation tomorrow, otherwise I would of course use interpelation to do it, and these are voter IDs. I'm sure you've noticed that by 4:00 p.m. today, all citizens can go to their voter ID office. I was a little unsettling, but somehow I stopped at the fact that on the website of the Ministry of the Interior you will find voters' IDs, which have been stolen or lost over the years, so they are mainly lost at municipal offices. If you do the math, it's almost over 6,000 votes. If I asked if we have until now the number of voting cards issued in the first round, no one can answer that, and that there is practically no information. So I think we should be in control of this, and I think we should know how many voting cards were issued and how many people really used the voting card, so we should have that information. And it's exactly the same as when you come into the polling room and the envelopes count exactly how many have been issued and how many have been handed in, and they have to agree, so I'm just convinced that this should go along with the electoral licenses. I'm not saying it isn't, but I was very surprised that we didn't have information about how many electoral passes were issued and how many people then handed over the electoral IDs in those rooms, in the context that if you look at the Home Office website, you'll find here a list of cities and municipalities where, of course, the electoral IDs were lost over the years. And I was very surprised that, for example, in a town, 300 electoral IDs were lost in some village. So I think it's an important topic, an topical one, and I think that if we have the Home Secretary here, he might be able to comment on that. So I would therefore ask that this point be placed as the first item in today's meeting called Vote Cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u21	Thank you. All proposals for amending the agenda have been made. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I will also read the apologies received when President Pekarová Adamová Markéta apologizes within 10 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Haas Karel from 11 to 13 o'clock for working reasons, Hájek Jiří from 13 o'clock for working reasons, Hendrych Igor from 10 o'clock for working reasons, Lacina Jan from 9.30 o'clock for working reasons, Richter Jan from the whole day for working reasons. That would be an apology. I think the numbers of applicants and visitors are starting to stop, and we can proceed to the vote on the motion to change the agenda. I'm picking up the check-out request. So I'm signing you all off once again, please log in with your ID cards again. And now, as the proposals have been tabled, we will vote. First of all, President Cogan made a proposal to pre-schedule House press 34, the abolition of obsolete legislation. It is point number 16, namely to follow paragraph 135, i.e. to become the third in fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The 117 vote was 169 votes, for 94, against 0. So we've put this point over here. Mrs Jana Pastuchová also proposed the inclusion of a new point by the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová to two million Czech citizens and supporters of Andrej Babiš - if I am not reading it exactly, I think that is basically it. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 118, 170 Members voted in favour of 75, against 91. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, Mr Kamal Farhan has proposed a new point on the crisis situation in regional hygiene. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 119, 170 Members voted, in favour of 76, against 84. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Next, Mr Jiří Mašek made a proposal entitled The Critical Situation in Drug Supply, what is the government's solution to drug shortages? I am opening the vote on the inclusion of this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? In the 120 vote, 171 votes were cast, for 77, against 84. This proposal was also rejected. Subsequently, Mr Radek Vondráček proposed a new item entitled The Financial Plan to Combat Disinformation and Publicity of the Government. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 121, 171 Members and Members were enrolled, for 77, against 90. This proposal was rejected. And I see that Mr Mašek seems to be voting? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u22	Yes, Madam President, in the vote to apologise to the Minister of Defence, I voted in favour, and I am opposed to drugs. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-25-ps2021-050-06-000-000.u23	Thank you, for the tape, then. And we will proceed to the next proposal, namely Mrs Věra Adámková, the name of the new proposed point - Providing dental care in the Czech Republic. Should it be approved, we will vote for a firm inclusion. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 122 out of 171 voting for 77 against 80, the motion was rejected. In the second proposal, Mrs Adámková presented a proposal for a point on the availability of the care of clinical psychologists in paediatrics. I'm starting the vote again. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 123, 172 votes were cast, 78 against 78. Result: rejected. [[9.50 hours]] Subsequently, Mr Stanislav Berkovec proposed a new item on the Government's Crisis Plan concerning the cessation of production in major companies operating in the Czech Republic. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 124, 172 Members voted in favour of 77, against 87. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Subsequently, Mr Patrik Nacher proposed a new point Basic information of the Government on combating misinformation. I am therefore opening the vote on this proposal for a point. Who's up for a point like that? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 125, 172 votes for 78, against 84. This proposal was not accepted either. And the last voteable proposal belongs to Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and is entitled Vocal ID. Who's up for this point? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 126, 172 Members and Members were enrolled, for 78, against 81. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I hereby state that we have dealt with all the proposals for the vote and that we can now proceed as the approved agenda for the meeting is now in force. So I'm opening point number.
