ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u1	137. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. First, I'm going to read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. We received an apology from President Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 12.30 pm due to foreign travel, Mr Oldřich Černý from 14.30 pm for health reasons, further apologizing from 14.30 pm for working reasons, Mr Marek Výborný from 14.30 pm for Síla Jan, Miroslav ZborovskZborovský from 14.30 pm for personal reasons and from members of the government Minister Vít Rakušan from 14.30 pm for working reasons. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you on the bench. I would also like to point out to the intersecting Members as well as those who are intersecting the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, there will be an intersulting on the members of the Government. I am now giving the floor to Mr Marek Novák, who was drawn in the first place to present his intervention on the Prime Minister, and then Mr Lubomír Metnar will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, it has become such a tradition for this government of yours that ministers in their positions become confused, give conflicting opinions or do not work on the problems of their ministries in order to resolve problems. Your reaction to this chaos is not to replace them, you are going to apologize for them. The last time was in the case of the Department of Education. Now I am addressing you with a really serious problem that you just need to know about, and that is a catastrophic lack of key medicines in our pharmacy. I tried to include this topic at the House meeting, but of course I couldn't succeed because your government's majority of patient sufferings across the Czech Republic are not interested. We've been through more than six months of Secretary of Health's promises to Válek. It was all clear signals, but when you come to the pharmacy, the signal disappears, and instead of the drugs, you're holding a recipe for which there's nothing to pick up. There's been enough promises, they don't meet reality, and there's a matter to be dealt with, and most importantly, a solution. This can be seen by receiving a prescription with your doctor in case of health problems, for which you will then pick up medicines for free or with an additional fee. Prime Minister, I ask you to resolve this tragic situation clearly, not promises, signals and apologies for the Minister of Health. When will there be enough drugs in our pharmacies? And please straight away, without excuses for the energy situation, the situation in Ukraine or inflation. You know that in the surrounding states they may have similar problems, but they are able to solve this deficiency. That is why our citizens travel there for some medicines. It's a shame, isn't it? I can't believe your government will move until someone's fatal end. That's why I'm asking for your guarantee that won't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u3	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister is excused, replying in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Lubomír Metnar, who was drawn second, will be prepared by Mr Martin Kukla. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on my interview with the Prime Minister: Dear Prime Minister, let us be familiar with the issue of disputes between the Chief of Staff and the Secretary of Defence. Members of the Defence Committee do not receive any information, your media outputs are merely general statements. The personnel policy that we are witnessing at the Department of Defence can endanger the defence of the Czech Republic and it is your duty to introduce us to this situation. I therefore ask what was the problem and what is the concrete outcome of your negotiations with General Řehka and the Secretary of Defense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u5	Thank you, even for keeping time. Once again, I note that the Prime Minister is excused, he will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We will now proceed to the next interviewer, which is Mr Martin Kukla, and Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, the fact that we are indifferent to you here in the O.R., I've gotten used to it, but that you're lying to people, I'm very sorry. I'll give you the facts from the programming statement. The program statement says, "We don't want to and we won't lie to people." And now I'm going back to your election campaign. You have said several times in the election campaign or during the reign as Prime Minister that you will not increase taxes. And now I'm going to quote you, "We're not going to increase taxes," promised Fiala during the campaign. Further: "We will not increase taxes," promised Prime Minister Fiala on the Channel. In an interview with the host, he said he wasn't planning on raising taxes on households. "We will not raise taxes. Period," he said. Well, let's take a look at the current situation. What are you doing now? You raise VAT, instead of three VAT rates we only have two, but the VAT increases and the water, sewer, public transport, accommodation, tickets, cultural events, books, you plan to increase excise duty on diesel, you increase highway signs - but there is interesting that for the rich no, those who have an electric car will get it for free. You increase property tax, reduce support for building savings and continue begging seniors. The balíček does not contain any investment measures or austerity measures, but only wants to draw money out of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u7	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will speak next with his intervention, as he will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, that time outside the boardroom. My direction is to the budgetary determination of taxes. I thank my colleague, the speaker, who provided the introduction for me, and I will do only those specific things in relation to the RUD. I would like to ask you, if you have promised everyone how you will not raise taxes, how will you manage, how can you take funds from cities, municipalities and regions? I wanted to include this point in the House's meeting, unfortunately I failed, but I believe that you will answer me so that we can all be satisfied, and that I will learn what the municipalities and regions will gain, because if this actually happens - and I believe that you will reconsider - it will be tens and hundreds of millions that the regions, municipalities and cities will lose. So please, Prime Minister - when you presented the package, you just implied. Then you began to complement the individual steps you would take, the measures that await us. I feel like it's not all over yet. Now, please, blow up the fog, cut through it, and get to the point as you really do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u9	Thank you, too. Once again, I state that the Prime Minister is excused, he will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now we will proceed to a series of interpellings by Mr Radek Koten. So all I'm saying is that it's going to be four interpelations in total, every two minutes at the most. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, I have not been here for medical reasons last time, and you have longed for me, so now the situation is diametrically different. I want you, and you're not here. So I'll start with my first interview. This concerns licence fees, because the government and the Ministry of Culture are toying with some increase in licence fees for Czech Television and for Czech Radio. There are also variations in the game that would therefore be paid from smart mobile phones the licence fee, or from tablets and computers. So I'm asking how it would be watched, how it would be chosen, because in my opinion, if a household is charged a licence fee, in my opinion it doesn't matter if you're watching it on a TV or if you're watching it on a mobile device or on any other electronic device. But there is a completely different strategy for broadcasting programmes on the public programme, because in the event of a kind of licensed film being broadcast, i.e. foreign, and not produced by Czech Television, you are broadcasting a kind of advertising on the Internet. So how do you want to collect licence fees for something that isn't full, the Internet broadcast? I think that, as far as copyright is concerned, you should sort it out, but you would like to increase it even further by some inflation clause, that is, that the licence fee would rise every year. So please answer the questions here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u11	Thank you. That was your first interview. It will be answered in writing within 30 days, and please, you can approach the other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u12	Thank you again for the floor. My second interpellation, Prime Minister, will relate specifically to the price of motorway stamps. So I would be particularly interested in the price of a one-day stamp, because if I calculated it, I divided the price - increased, 2,200 crowns - and I divided it by 365 days, so it worked out for some 360 (?). That is why I was surprised by the price of a one-day motorway stamp, that it would be CZK 200 and the price of a ten-day stamp would be CZK 270. From my point of view, this is about taxing people who will only go once a year, for example, to a doctor and so on. Of course, there can be tourists who, in my opinion, will use the ten-day stamp if they come to us on vacation because it will be much more advantageous for them because it is only 70 crowns more expensive. What bothers me is that our motorway network is unfortunately in such a state after reconstruction that it is not worth paying for, because if you are going to the Prague-Brno route, you are standing from 180 kilometers to 220. and I am not talking about the route to Vyškov or Ostrava afterwards from Brno. So the government's planning to build another kilometer of highways here, but Minister Kupka's been calling some 25 kilometers, which I don't think really corresponds to an increase of CZK 700. So my question is, how are you going to deal with the traffic situation on the D1 motorway, given that it is not being designed for this operation, and when are you going to remove this problem?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u13	Thank you very much, even for keeping time. Once again, this interview from the apologized Prime Minister will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days, and I will ask you for your third intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u14	Thank you again for the floor. My third interview will address the ban on solid fuel heaters since 2025. I would therefore be interested to know, of course, how the producers of the heaters will deal with this, because if it is banned here with us and we are not allowed here to buy a solid fuel boiler, so citizens who will have the need and something has gone wrong in their home will, of course, be able to buy a Czech producer boiler in Poland, because Polák have negotiated exceptions for their citizens. But your government, when it was in the Presidency of the European Union, of course, the worse - it seems to me - you negotiated it, the better. And how are these people supposed to ensure the heating of the household if they can't buy a boiler for repair, which, let's say, is quite cheap, they won't have the possibility of a heat pump, and they won't even get a grant to exchange for, say, a heat pump that's going to cost twice as much as CZK 150, 150 000 or CZK 200 000? Where do you expect these people to come up with that? So I ask you whether you are still able to negotiate an exception, or whether really Czech citizens will be affected in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u15	Thank you again for presenting your interpelation, as well as for respecting the time frame. The Prime Minister, who is excused, will reply in writing to you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now we're going to proceed to your last interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u16	My last interview with the Prime Minister deals with the situation regarding the resignation of General Řehka's chief of staff for his office, and I wonder what events have led to this and how you, Prime Minister, talked him out of resigning. As far as the situation at the Ministry of Defence, especially personnel policy, is concerned, unfortunately, as I learn from my colleagues in the Defence Committee, it is rather trivial. At today's meeting of the Defense Committee, the Secretary didn't even show up and no one came to represent her from the Ministry of Defence. As far as personnel policy is concerned, unfortunately, I have to say that people who have been erudized have been experienced, have been removed from their positions and are often replaced only by people who are only loyal. So I wonder what the situation at the DOD is, if you have any information about it, and if you know the reasons why Mr. Chief of Staff Řehka wanted to resign. The next question is to sign a contract for the purchase of infantry combat vehicles, because there are many question marks. The normal state will do so by agreeing with the final supplier first, signing a contract on sub-contracts and then signing the final contract. This is where everything was done the other way around, and unfortunately, after signing the contract with the supplier of combat transporters, the so-called inflationary clause has yet to be signed, so it will only be extra taxpayers' money. [[Time.]] So my question is going to point to how much money it's going to increase. [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u17	I'm really going to ask for time, thank you. And what happens now? Once again, you will receive a reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted, so there will now be oral intervention on other members of the Government. I will now ask Mr Aleš Juchelka to give an interview to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, and to start a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u18	Thank you so much for the floor. Dear Minister, the professional public has recently been introduced to your concept of the new Family Support Act. There's going to be a radical change in the system. The basis for this is the following intention of abolishing the institutions of social protection of children, creating new services for families with children, and thus losing control of the state of child protection. The new law no longer provides for the existence of OSPOD as bodies of social-law protection for children, why is this and why is the state, as guarantor of the child's rights convention, losing control of the protection of vulnerable children? [[14.50 hours]] I believe that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is opposed to the diction of the Convention on the Rights of the Child when it transfers the powers of protection of children from the state to the nonprofit sector and social services. Public protection is reduced only to control and methodological activities at the level of regional authorities. Public protection within the framework of existing ORPs is only mentioned by changing its substance and it is therefore unclear whether it will be provided by a consultative, preventive or protective function at all. Overall, the concept gives the impression that the Ministry wants to outsource new services that will be expensive and unfinanceable for the system. The current state of social services needs to be supported, not to create expensive social services for families with children, as you probably plan. I ask you to explain clearly how the current system is problematic to the extent that it is necessary to change it so radically, and how in the new concept you will ensure the commitments that the Czech Republic has made from international agreements for the protection of children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u19	Thank you very much and now Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u20	Hello. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the interview from my colleague Aleš Juchelka. I want to say at the beginning of my reply that I think it is necessary for us to be able to provide a system of care for vulnerable children, a system of support for families to improve significantly in the Czech Republic, because I think that those who are dealing with this issue perceive that the practice is far from ideal, they are far from always able to help solve problems when they arise, solve the cause, and then we are making huge efforts and also large funds to address the consequences. Our ambition is not, here we heard radically, to make some dramatic coups, changes, and there is no ambition to disturb the work of the people who are now working within the OSPODs. Our ambition is that, as we also have in the legislative plan of the Government's work, we have prepared and tabled a draft law on support for families and children's protection so that we can implement these things more conceptually, so that we have better ropes and cooperation, even within the agenda of those activities that can help counseling, primarily prevention as such, contribute to the fact that, in fact, it will not have to go to the same extent as today, when children are taken from families, so that we can strengthen the fact that, for example, we will be able to prepare young mothers better for maternity, parenthood, help them to create competences so that we can really prevent many things in time. So the agenda for protecting vulnerable children is in no way intended to move to any area of separate competence of municipalities, that in no way, or to the service of non-profit organizations, but we still calculate that it will remain included in the performance of the administration so that the state does not lose competence in this key area, has not lost the opportunity to improve the situation that is really difficult here today. On the contrary, the aim of the new legislation, as I said here at the outset, is to increase quality, efficiency and also to contribute to some greater unity and simplicity in this agenda, because what I often hear from workers and workers of the OSPODs, there is also a need to increase the administrative agenda, which unfortunately also some legislative changes in recent times unfortunately make it difficult for them to do so. So we are in a situation where we are preparing parameters for this new law. We have created a relatively wide platform of experts with roughly 160 representatives. We really care that this change is thought out, conceptual, in favour of improving the entire system of care for vulnerable children, in order to be consistent with international conventions. So please, don't jump on what some people sometimes say that we want to cancel the agenda here, cancel people, release people, it's total nonsense - at all. On the contrary, I think that we have regions where personnel capacity is greatly underestimated, that we cannot respond well enough to the need for people to be more effective in quality field work. We are also dealing with other measures that we would like to implement soon. For example, we want to carry out one of the support activities within professional nannies, which could really be more practical, in the field helping families, parents to master their role in order to achieve their competencies and the like. For me personally, it is really very important that we improve the system. We are also working on things that are beyond cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, with the area, let's also say judges, judges, so that we really try to make an example of good practice so that these two areas communicate more together so that the decision is faster, let's say with greater quality and so on. So I guess that's the answer to what a fellow Member named Juchelka mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u21	I also thank and see that the Member wants to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u22	A little and, of course, a little refill. [[unintelligible]] Thank you very much, because the rumors are a little different, and they're not just from the institutions of social-law protection for children. I just really want to warn that we should approach vulnerable children sensitively so that we do not shift the competence of vulnerable children from state to state somewhere else, because practice in other countries is not really good here. We don't really cost much money to bail out families, on the contrary, there are minimum funds, even underprivilegeds can confirm that if you're in the field, the funds are missing. And I understand, of course, what the Minister said here. They're beautiful sentences, take-off words, excellent terminology, but it seems a little bit to me that it's with practice - that it just goes against practice. And I firmly believe that the Minister will watch it for the children. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u23	Is the Minister interested in a reaction? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u24	Thank you. I allow myself to react so that my words are not moved elsewhere than what I said. I was talking here about financial challenges when we're already dealing with the consequences, when we already have a situation, when the child is taken away from the family, when the child is then in institutional care somewhere, and so on, that is the cost that the state bears as part of the resolution of the consequences. And I said that, in general, when we look at the social system in the Czech Republic, we have a much larger part, disproportionately larger, which really aims at dealing with the consequences, but very little yet we are focusing on solving the causes that we would be able to offer with a much lower cost of good work and good interaction of some bodies, for example, we would be able to prevent some negative effects on a particular person or on a particular child, on a specific family if we could offer a helping hand in time, in order to avoid any of these crisis situations at all. I'm not a person who's naive. I know that the situation is just that, despite all the efforts that we can make, we can't work with our parents, we can't work with our family, that then really sometimes, because of domestic violence, because of really seriously neglected education, and unfortunately, this will happen. But I do think that we have not systematically done enough in this country to complement the segment of these services, support services so that we can better eliminate the cause, work better with the families of vulnerable children and, if necessary, work better to - when this withdrawal is already happening - to be more likely to work with the family, so that the child may also have a chance to return to the family if it is in his favour - if it is in his favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u25	Thank you very much and we will now move on to another interpellation, which will be the interpellation of Mr Zdeněk Kettner and will target the Minister of Education. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u26	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, I have to clarify the question a little bit - the question came out this way thanks to a shortcut. My point is, we've been working on modifications to the RVPs for a long time. The main aim of the RVP adjustment is to reduce content enough to give teachers time to repeat and strengthen the curriculum, which is a very important part of teaching. And at the moment I learned that there was a nine-year plan to reduce the number of years in primary school to eight, so if it doesn't go against each other a little bit, because that's why, if we keep the classroom for first and second degrees down, but we reduce the year, we don't get anything - there's just going to be an overpressure all of a sudden. And if we move some of the classes to third grade, until the first two years of high school, if that's not what's going to interfere with the work on the RVP adjustments, and if the changes aren't going to be significantly more massive than expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u27	Thank you, too, and now the Minister of Education, Mikuláš Bek, will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u28	Madam Vice-President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question, because it is really important now that we explain and specify our intentions. I must say that right after my arrival, I have tried to get into the state of preparation for the revision of the framework education programmes in detail, and it is in these hours and days that I should receive the first outputs from the working groups that have dealt with the individual areas. I am convinced that one of the weaknesses of the original assignment, which has historically arisen, is that, from the beginning, more conceptual discussions have not been conducted on ropes and links between primary and secondary education, and there has also been no debate on how possible changes at the level of secondary education will be implied by possible adjustments or changes at higher education level, albeit not necessarily in the level of some special reform of curricula, but perhaps the functioning of some segments of this tertiary sector. I am convinced that the debate has been going on relatively intensively for several years about the possible reduction of primary school to eight years. But I can imagine, of course, that political debate will reach another model. From my point of view, it is even more important for compulsory school attendance to be extended until at least 16 years of age, as it is in most European countries, which should have a positive effect especially on those who do not even try to enter secondary education today. When I examined the progress made, I am assured that primarily the debate was conducted on the content of education, of course also on the nodal points that have been set so far in the fifth and ninth grade, and there is clear that if our political discussion quickly reaches the conclusion that the model primary school should be reduced to eight years, this means some interference with the ongoing work or refinement of the assignment. On the other hand, this does not mean that the work that has been done would be damaged in any way, because I am really convinced that if we were to reduce the primary school to eight years and perhaps use those capacities for preparatory classes that could better treat delays than the current model of stay in kindergarten, it opens up the scope for us to take on the beginning of the secondary school differently, newly and truly to treat some things at this stage, and therefore we should not leave the starting point, that the content should be reduced rather than thickened and increased demands on children. So I look forward to the result of both expert and political discussions on this model. We should decide quite soon so that we can be clear on the subject for revision of educational programmes. I am aware that we cannot wait long here, but I assume that intensive political, professional discussions can reach conclusions relatively quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u29	Thank you, too. Is there an interest in an additional question? It's not like that. That concludes this interview, we will move on to the interpelling of Mr Vladimír Zlínský and then Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u30	Dear Minister, I appeal to you in the matter of a complaint concerning an excessive period of legal proceedings and a possible infringement of the insolvency law in the course of the proceedings of the KSP 56 INS 8104/2012, creditor . Jiří Mareš, D I received this complaint from Marešův's husbands from Pardubice, let me quote from the letter sent: "We are creditors in insolvency since March 2012. The Regional Court of Hradec Králové, a branch of Pardubice, allowed the debtor, carrier Vilém Bednář, insolvency without the debtor showing bankruptcy. Complete accounting was lacking and the economic situation of the debtor's company was not investigated. We honor the independence of the court, but not the independence of the law. I refer to the legal sentence approved by the Supreme Court Criminal College on bankruptcy: If it cannot be established, for example as a result of the lack of accounting documents, whether, at a time when the debtor made the expenditure out of his property without obtaining the appropriate value, he was already bankrupt or not, his conduct can be considered as a misdemeanor to the creditor under § 222, para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Code of Criminal Procedure, provided that those property dispositions at least partially frustrate the satisfaction of the creditor. For the above reasons, we asked on 6. 9. 2022 Department of Justice for damages. To date, our request was not settled, only from the Regional Court Hradec Králové, a branch of Pardubice, asked if we insisted on the trial due to the current course of the trial." End of quote. Minister, I am asking you to investigate the matter, to correct it and to provide written information as to how the matter has been resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u31	Thank you for your interpellation. The Minister is absent, duly excused and will reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are now going to interpel Mr Richard Brabec, and then Mr Lubomír Brož will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, thank you for coming. Of course, the government doesn't fit in one line, so it's funny that it fits perfectly without a problem in the interpellation, but I really appreciate you coming to listen to the interview. I would like to ask you about the current developments to announce the Křivoklátsko National Park, because we both know that if I am very euphemistic, I will say that the process of the Ministry of the Environment is not going well. Not that it is not interested on the side of the Ministry, but it comes across relatively strong, or I would say very strong resistance from the point of view of the region. You inherited the situation rather because I rather blame the previous predecessor or your predecessor, because there was a lot of neglect of the department's personnel work towards the region and pushed down literally some of the things that the municipalities today consider as, say, a top-stressed idea of the national park, and my experience from Šumava after 30 years, when something was promised to the region, it was not fulfilled, so there was a big problem. Because I know that - I think yesterday - there was some sort of meeting with the municipalities, so I wanted to ask you how the negotiations went, if you can tell how you feel about it, if you see any shifts and what you expect the next steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u33	Also thank you and now the Minister of the Environment Petr Hladík has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you so much for asking. The intention has been published on 27 September 2022, a 90-day deadline has taken place, and I would like to point out that the intention was deliberately postponed after my predecessor's discussion with the mayor until after the local elections, when the mayors say, "Don't do it before the election, do it after the election. That means, here I think I want to point out a little bit that my predecessor, Anna Hubáčková, too, has been doing this and adjusted some decisions, which is certainly the date of publication of the intention is the decision when the administrative deadline will start. [[15.10 hours]] In fact, by the end of the year, the mayors, the natural, legal persons, objected. There were 28 objections, 26 from natural persons, 2 from legal persons and 16 from municipalities. A total of two municipalities - one village made a comment and two did nothing, namely Brotronice and Sýkořice. Currently, the Ministry has issued 13 decisions when oppositions submitted by natural persons were fully granted. In addition, three decisions were issued where the municipalities were fully granted, and these three municipalities will be completely removed from the plan. It's Kublov, Horní Bezděkov and Little Kyšice. The forests of the Czech Republic have withdrawn their objection and administrative proceedings are kept in the remaining administrative proceedings. I hope and assume that they will be completed in the order of weeks. Definitely the intention of my and the Ministry is to comply as much as possible with objections and comments, especially natural persons, or where it really is a pragmatic and factual comment. I attended yesterday at the invitation of the Governor because it was organized by the Central Bohemia Region - I must say that the Central Bohemia Region is very active in this and it is a good thing that communication also takes place at regional level. There were about eight mayors there yesterday. I have to say, in the time of communication, when I was a minister, we've disproved and communicated a whole series of comments from not being able to do shit and collect knuckles and bike. That's what I think we've been through in that phase, that everyone understands how it is. In individual discussions with the mayors, we have also moved some things completely pragmatic. From 1976, for example, the CHKO borders are declared in about two or three municipalities in the middle of the intravilion. When the mayor asks me why he has a CHKO line in the middle of intravillain, even I can't answer him why. I promised, and I want to keep that deadline, even if it has to be... It is a different process than the announcement of the CHKO, you know it very well that the process of updating the CHKO is also an administrative process, but we will also move some things within the CHKO. So I think that communication with a whole range of municipalities is going well, but it remains, and I guess some of the communities that are against it now, and I would say from some sort of meritorial matter, it's just that these things are moving away from the factual, let's say, some ideological or worldview vision of the world - I have to say, but not all of them, certainly not all of them. I said, yesterday there were only eight, everyone got invited. Some people told me they wouldn't go, even because they didn't want to or wouldn't join some kind of hard line of communication. Some, on the other hand, called me to agree. Even some mayors expressed an interest in having the headquarters of the CHKO on their cadaster that they have a suitable property. That means I'll continue to communicate, and I promised the mayors yesterday that once we settled all the comments, the objections, we would circle them all again to see the shift. He's just gonna be against the declared intent. I guess, and I'm saying this objectively, the situation isn't going to happen to some kind of approval of those municipalities, but the important thing is that what can be resolved will be solved. [[Time, please.]] [[The President: There is a need to end. Time.]] [[Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u35	He will give you the opportunity, I suppose, to add your comments after the additional question. I have to measure everyone in the same time frame. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your supplemental...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u36	Thank you. Yes, I'd love to. I have an additional question. But I'm sure you can finish that, Minister, what you were about to say. If you too were confronted by some journalists with a question - I too was - as the ministry might have seen - and I will admit that I did not see the alternative proposal, but I know, or I have heard that there is an alternative proposal between the mayors concerning a specialized race of the Forests of the Czech Republic, which would be a compromise between the CHKO and the national park in large quotation marks. And supposedly he also has support, I don't know if everyone, but he also has support for most municipalities, allegedly more support than the idea of a national park. So I wanted to ask if you read the material, because I didn't have a chance to read it, or how you look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u37	Thank you, too, for keeping time. And now there's room for the Minister to react for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u38	I'm just gonna respond because I think I'm done. I actually saw him there yesterday from Mr. Mayor Kocman in two slides for the first time, and more or less, if I simplify a lot now, even if it would take a little more time, it's more or less what the government has in its programming statement how the management policy of the Forests of the Czech Republic will be changed. This is actually the future mainstream that we are actually supposed to move towards more environmentally friendly technologies in order to return the money from the forests back to the forest in a way that is not in a passive way - in a selective way. It's actually about management. So for me, let's say it's the future mainstream of the forest management of the Czech Republic, even if it takes some more years, I agree. But the principle of territorial protection, as we know it, defined not only by Czech laws, but by international standards, I do not actually see there. So much for that, I guess. But yesterday I saw it in some way, the outlines for the first time, and when we went into the discussion, I had to say that this is actually the future mainstream of the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u39	Thank you and we will proceed to the following interview, which is the interpellation of Mr Lubomír Brož, who is heading for the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, who is excused. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u40	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, my intervention is on the basis of a bill amending Act No. 496/2012, on audiovisual works and the promotion of cinema, and the amendment of some laws, the Act on Audiovision. My question is very simple: according to the draft legislative work of the Ministry of Culture, this law or proposal was to be submitted to the Government in March 2023 and the expected date of entry into force was January 2024. I'd like to ask, what is the current state of date? It is because this is a law that is very expected by filmmakers, and it is currently being addressed and can mean hundreds of millions of crowns for Czech film. It is intended to adjust the rules of financing of the State Cinematography Fund and it should actually correct the situation when foreign streaming platforms do not pay anything in the Czech Republic unlike other players on the market. So that means what is the current state of affairs in terms of preparation of this law? And most importantly, do you see as still a real date for the entry into force of this law in January 2024? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u41	Thank you, too. The Minister is excused, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will receive an answer within 30 days. And we will proceed to the next interpellation of Mr Robert Stržínek. I will just read an apology in the meantime: Mr Hubert Lang apologizes from 14:00 on business grounds. And please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear absent Minister Stanjur, for several days now, at the level of the governor, your intention to change or reduce the budgetary determination of taxes in the regions has been discussed. But I want to ask you what specific changes the Ministry of Finance is preparing in relation to cities and municipalities. Will there also be a change in the budgetary determination of taxes? The financial impact of the consolidation package on cities and municipalities will be CZK 34 billion according to the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. [[15.20 hours]] Please explain the plan to remove the municipality's share of property tax in favour of the state budget or the exclusion of municipalities' share of gambling tax, again in favour of the state budget. What is the estimate of the Ministry of Finance relating to the humiliation of the share of shared taxes due to the exclusion of the municipality's share of two percentage points in the corporate tax return? How will national grant titles for ammunition be cut? All my questions could be summed up in one single question: How much do you want to take from cities and municipalities from their income so far? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u43	Thank you for your interpellation. The answer shall be in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We are now going to interpel Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u44	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm lucky this time because I'm intersecting the minister who's sitting here, so after some three or four interspersings, I'm gonna learn something. The interpelation is pretty simple. It concerns that since January 2023, the unforgivable amount has increased by some thousand crowns. I started to multiply complaints from seniors who are being executed and who are not being confiscated, that for January they did not receive a pension in the right amount from the Czech Social Security Administration, which means that there was no higher unforgivable amount taken into account until February. The justification was that the Czech Social Security Administration did not have enough technical and technological conditions to pay the amount in January. In February it was already paid out, because the change came out in the Collection in December 2022. So I just wanted to ask myself and see if that's how many seniors or people who receive a pension are in bailout or insolvency and are dependent on an unusable minimum and an unforgivable amount of how many people are involved. If that's true, then if it's paid back to those people. So a purely factual inquiry from my wound regarding the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka have the floor now. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u46	Thank you. Hello, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Nacher, through Madam President, I would therefore like to respond to the interpelation. Indeed, the situation is that there is actually a monthly delay after the government's decree on the very rainfall comes out. Last year, it really turned 30. 12. 2022. Unfortunately, unfortunately, the Czech Social Security Administration is not able to respond to this so that it can project it into the paycheck that was realized in January. So then it's adjusted, and it's projected into paychecks that don't come to seniors until February, so it's a month's delay, which is just here. The same thing will happen now in June with extraordinary valorization and the screening will be there a month later. So there are actually shifts going on, sometimes in favour of the debtor, sometimes in favour of the debtor, which depends on how the amount is set. The condition is definitely not comfortable. I looked at this a few months ago, because I think that you have already mentioned this topic, not today for the first time, so we have a plan that, based on changes in information systems, based on modifications within the software, we should be able to do it at the latest from 1 January 2025 so that we really do it at the given moment, in the given month, and there is no delay. So that's the answer I can give at this point. I'm not comfortable with this, but unfortunately, this situation has been here for years, and we're working on doing this in real time as part of IT upgrades and modifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u47	Thank you, Minister. The Member will ask an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u48	That's not even a question, that's probably a verification, because let the interpelation have added value to the people watching it. That means it's a month late, but those people are gonna get it, if I understand correctly? Or is it passé where it doesn't make it? I understand the delay, I don't take it as criticism when something comes out on December 30th. I'm more concerned about whether, if the month's delay takes place on a paycheck that takes account of the higher amusing amount, then if it ever catches up with the month it's still there according to the original amount. That's probably the most important information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u49	Thank you for keeping time, and there's room for a reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u50	I'll try to answer, I don't know if it'll be completely understandable. In fact, there will never be a compensation of the difference of that one month if the difference arises there, so there is a monthly delay and the difference simply does not compensate, whether it is in favour or in favour. There are moments when it's in favor of the senior, or when it's in his favor, so there won't be any reckoning and settlement. The system and the software solution of the Czech Social Security Administration are simply not set for this. We are able to resolve this by 1 January 2025 at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u51	Thank you. We will proceed to another interview by Mr Roman Kubíček, Mr Lubomír Metnar will be prepared further. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my intervention will be brief and brief. Last year, we were preparing an energy package here, the amendment of which we have dealt with the so-called case of energy poverty for the people concerned. It was mainly about single parents, disabled people and so on. The Minister has promised me that he will take away a somewhat more comfortable solution, not later than March of this year. I just point out that it is so strange that we are saying this at a time when we have beautiful weather outside, but given the legislative process, it is quite necessary that this adjustment is already going through this process, because it concerns the months of November to March, so I would ask the Minister to tell me what stage it is, how it is prepared and how it will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u53	Thank you. Words will be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u54	Thank you. Hello, Madam Vice-President, colleagues. Dear Mr Kubíček, through Madam President, I am happy to answer this question of yours. We are in a situation where this legislative solution is not a purely legislative proposal, for which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs bears the primary responsibility, but it is an amendment to the Energy Act, on which we, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, have also cooperated in this area. That means the proposal is already in the legislative process today. At this point, it is under discussion within the Committees of the Legislative Council of the Government that I also assume, according to the communication that the Minister of Industry and Trade told us by Jozef Síkela, that this material should be discussed by the Government by the end of June and forwarded subsequently to the Chamber of Deputies. There's an agreement here that there will be a definition of a vulnerable customer that will define certain rights and protection of a vulnerable customer in the law. Among other things, it provides an obligation for a period of three months to take over energy supplies via the DPI in case the supplier is completely disconnected. There is also a new authorisation for suppliers to initiate a complaint against the local relevant regional branch of the Labour Office in order to carry out a social investigation or to provide directly crisis aid to a vulnerable person where the vulnerable customer is in danger of interrupting or ending the supply of electricity to his demand point. The supplier shall refrain from ending the contract on the basis of which he supplies electricity or gas to a designated demand point or from exercising his right to terminate or interrupt the supply of electricity or gas until he has received information on the handling of his complaint, but no later than 30 days after such a complaint has been taken. So there's a mechanism set up here that we've been dealing with very difficultly last year because we didn't have clear legal powers and competences here so that we could simply communicate directly with electricity or gas suppliers. This definition of a vulnerable customer here should say: this set of people is not so easily detachable. Before the disconnect occurs, communication with the Labor Office must be so that we can protect this person to the maximum. But, of course, we are unable to guarantee that energy will be supplied to people who simply do not have the willingness to pay their obligations, and that, of course, has limits and limits. [[15.30 hours]] And I'm just going to remind you that the margo of last year's reality, I think that the situation was quite well managed then, that there really was a very intense communication and cooperation with suppliers, with distributors in the field, so actually, even if it looked like it was still in January, in February last year, that it would be some really extremely intense situation, so we really managed to reduce the disconnect to dozens of cases, not hundreds or thousands, thanks to the personal field investigation. On top of that, if I just allow myself here to sum up the increase in aid to these households: when we look at the most used instrument, and that is social support within the housing allowance, so when we look at April 2022, it was 165 000 households and the average monthly aid was CZK 4,200, and now when we look at April 2023, the instrument today helps to support some 248 000 households and the average amount is CZK 5,700. The way we see it, we're actually going through a period of the greatest strain that should start to fall gradually over the next few months, given the developments that we're watching on the stock exchanges, when we see both electricity and gas prices going down, so I dare say that even this part of the support has been able to work. And let me add, last year we have already made an adjustment that solves people who, for example, are on breathing devices and the like, they already have financial support for the contribution that we have been dealing with here, the mobility contribution. For these people, we have increased the amount so that we can compensate them, if necessary, for the increased cost of electricity consumption for these devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u55	Thank you very much. An additional question for the honourable Member, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u56	Well, thank you for your word. I, Minister, know you're not a Gesture Minister, but you took care of it, and then you promised me you'd do it, so thank you for that. On the other hand, I understand what you said in the context of nonpayers and people who are incapable of fulfilling their duties - it wasn't about them. It was really helping disabled pensioners, single mothers, those in a difficult situation. I used to copy it from the German law at the time - it wasn't that I invented it, I'm not that brilliant - and it's really not possible to unplug it for this narrow group of residents in those five months. That's about all, and otherwise, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u57	Thank you. There is no longer any interest in the response, and we will therefore proceed to another interpellation, which is the interpellation of Mr Lubomír Metnar. Mr Jiří Mašek will then be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u58	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of my intervention. Madam Secretary, in view of your inaction with the Parliamentary Audit Authority, i.e. the Defence Committee, and the citizens, I am asking you to familiarise Members and the public with the parameters of the contract with the infantry belt combat vehicles. I expected that when an extraordinary defense committee was convened on this day, you would come to us with the parameters of this defense of historically the most expensive order. You refused to participate in the committee and did not inform us publicly about the parameters of the contract, so I ask you this way. The fact that you sent us information in a secret regime doesn't interest taxpayers. These are public funds, and I'm asking you for public information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u59	Thank you for the intervention, the Minister is duly excused, the reply will come in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I will add an apology: in the meantime, Mrs Alena Schillerová apologizes from 14:30 for work reasons. And now we will proceed to another interview, namely from Mr Jiří Mašek and Mrs Ivana Mádlová will prepare herself. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u60	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I will now intersect Minister Jurečka on delaying pensions and humanitarian benefits. Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna take a quote from yesterday's press. Refugees with no money, payment of humanitarian benefits is delayed. I quote a Mrs. Oksana Bespalová, who is in financial distress, is the mother of several children, waiting to be paid 12,000 crowns and therefore had to borrow money, Oksana from the Karlovy Vary Region confids herself. In May, humanitarian aid was not enough to arrive in time for the inhabitants of Ukraine or for Ukrainian refugees. I don't know to what extent, but the news just shows up in the press. At the same time, I would like to ask whether there is any distinction in this matter as to whether it is really war refugees from war zones and people directly affected by war, or others. Why do I say that? Because before the conflict there were 200,000 Ukrajinec who were here in another regime who worked here or lived here, and during the conflict there were registrations of up to about 530,000 refugees. Currently, since we are repeatedly asking this question, we have received information from the Security Committee that currently 330,000 refugees are registered as refugees and about 200,000 are not registered here. At the same time, there's a thing that doesn't come with the pensions that our pensioners are supposed to receive. I have here, for example, information from my Facebook page from Mii Májová that "at 12 months last year I applied for a proper retirement pension, in the 5th month I was only invited to write it down and there I was told that the first pension would come to me in September. [[Time!]] [[Time, please!]] So it takes longer to write a pension here than it does a pregnancy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u61	Please, it is no longer possible, it is necessary to observe the time, to measure everyone equally. I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka for a response and then there will be room for an additional question. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u62	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Members, Mr Mašek, I would like to respond to your intervention, through Madam President. And actually, it's two topics that you raised here, so I'll take the first one. As regards the payment of the humanitarian benefit as a form of support that people who have come as refugees from Ukraine can receive, the situation here is such that, of course, we are trying to focus on proving some of the information that these applicants may prove to us that we really need to be consistent. So, yes, there is a situation where several thousand applicants are called upon to prove some facts to us. There is a situation today where about 4,000 potential aid seekers are being called upon to correct, i.e. to prove some reality. So, yes, somewhere there may be a delay, that we have a month to finish, and we don't pay those people the money because we asked them to prove some of the facts. Yes, it is. On the basis of the facts that appeared here in January and February, we are far from being more rigorous, more consistent. When we look at the agenda that is related to this, we see that the humanitarian benefit was paid in 2022 in April last year in the amount of approximately CZK 1.3 billion per month, and when we look at April 2023, so there is a volume of 634 million, so there is a very significant drop in time. In fact, he is connected to the decline as well as the involvement of Ukrainian refugees in the labour market. I had a meeting this morning, so now the current status, the latest figures from Monday this week, are 98,000 working Ukrainian refugees. About 92 percent of these workers are on the form of work from which full premiums are paid. So even in this we see the progression that was growing, it started somewhere at 50 percent. We, of course, in terms of where the refugee comes from, from which part of Ukraine, we do not even have the opportunity to judge and say under international law, this person is more from the eastern or southeast part or is from Kiev, or is from some western part - here it simply applies international law absolutely unambiguously: he comes from a country that is in a war situation, he is a refugee who has the right to gain temporary protection here or anywhere else in Europe. That's how we proceed. But it is true, and you know it very well that we have also taken steps that have been tightening up since April and since July on the basis of lex Ukraine In any case, the scope of social support and the scope of the aid in respect of accommodation. As for the pensions you asked about: I said it publicly, but here I just have to apologize that the situation is, say, very unpleasant especially for those who are waiting for the money, but we are actually doing well at a rather considerable rate to reduce the deficit and the delay. That means, by the end of June of this year, about four weeks from now, we should be back within legal deadlines. [[15.40 hours]] The delay that grew there due to a really extraordinary increase in the agenda, that is, last year's two extraordinary valorisations, a large wave of early departures, especially in the fourth quarter, which were submitted to the district administration of social security, to that from 1 January the agenda of education and proper valorisation again, so it brought a really great burden of a significant increase in the agenda to those workers and workers, although the Czech administration has been trying to strengthen personnel capacity since autumn, so we are not able to take on this agenda completely simply a person who would be able to complete the team in 14 days, because it requires quite a great experience. People usually get involved in this gradually over a period of one to two years, so this delay has arisen here. Again, I'm sorry about this situation. We are working to ensure that, in terms of strengthening the software solution, we have been in a situation in two years, where a really high proportion of the professional human work that is there, we have been able to replace more precisely with the better software solution, because maybe people don't know it, but we are working here on a software that is from the end of the turn of the 1980s and 1990s. It's an archaic system, and for years, it just hasn't been invested in it, so now we're catching up on the debt, and at the same time we're dealing with these unpleasant consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u63	I also thank you for keeping time, and I will ask the Member for an additional question or response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm just gonna finish what I didn't finish saying that I have a few reactions from retired people who asked for early or regular retirement, that the whole process lasts, as I said, longer than pregnancy, or more than nine months. So I wanted to ask, what time would we like to get to, when we get to the standard, and what would that standard mean then, the target condition from applying for retirement and paying our first benefits? That's one question. And the second question is about the refugees. There was a maximum of 530,000 registered, now it's 330,000, so of course the total amounts paid went down after that, that's what you said here. And I'd like to know the number of humanitarian benefits paid, if we have it in numbers. I understand it's necessary for the whole family and the like, that it's not like a fugitive so much a dose, for those who don't work, they're not involved, but if we know the number, how has it changed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u65	Thank you and once again with the response of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u66	I'll start from the end. As far as the humanitarian benefit is concerned, the decline is quite large, because when I take it from the point of view of the number of applications, it has dropped around 94-95,000 requests, so far support for some 151,000 people. We're about half the volume that was here, as I mentioned here, for example in April 2022. When we look at it with current numbers, today we have 325,000 people from Ukraine who have temporary protection and have been registered here after April 1st. And if we look at it by taking the 152,000 people's humanitarian benefits out of it, then we have 174,000 people who are no longer receiving any support. And from that, we can say that 98,000 people work. We really see it shifting a month after month, the number of workers falling, the number of workers rising, so I think that's a trend that I think is desirable for everyone. And as for the question of where we want to go, I have made it clear here that I want us to go within legal deadlines from the end of June, that is 90 days. We plan to launch a digital application for a pension in December of this year and not actually force people to go to the Czech Social Security Administration at all. And as I mentioned here, we also plan to complement, restore and have newer hardware and software solutions here so that we can be even faster than the 90 days, and as I have answered, for example, my colleague Patrik Nacher here a moment ago, as well as some of the things that we are dealing with today in the area of an unusable minimum with a monthly delay, as well as this from 1. 1. 2025 to remove, so that the administration really works at the level that we would have expected from the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u67	Thank you very much, and we will proceed to another interview by Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Whoever prepares subsequently is Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u68	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, perhaps I will also partially touch on the questions that you have now partially answered, but I am concerned with the overall social security system, or I am concerned with the integration of war refugees from Ukraine into the Czech social system. I asked this question in February about how it would be done. I asked for the readiness of the Labor Office both for personnel and for the system. I think it is important to talk about this, even in terms of numbers, because we are dealing with a consolidation package. Today it can be read that the debt of the state is growing astronomically. We provided assistance to Ukraine from available data in May 36 billion and from the state budget of 25 billion. I want to stress that I have never questioned the aid to Ukrainian refugees, I have always supported it, and I have been actively helping myself, so that is not the point that I would question it, but the point is that we need to talk about these figures. From the available data, as has been said here, there are about 330,000 refugees. In February, you replied that you had the ambition to bring cooperation between the Czech Republic and Ukraine to the level of practical functioning. I would like to ask you if you have an analysis based on the structure of people with active temporary protection on the types of social benefits they will receive, and how much will it cost our budget, how much funding will you raise, or the relevant chapter, and whether you have been able to identify the data and secure the data about the benefits paid by the Ukrainian party, which have not been known to date? Because it is said that it was not clear to whom they were paid and that they were sometimes paid several times to one person. And in what direction has the analysis of contractual relations between the Czech Republic and Ukraine shifted in terms of payment of social benefits and whether they are sufficient or will need to be adjusted for the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u69	Thank you, too. With the reaction of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u70	Hello. Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mádlová, I would like to respond, through Madam President, to your intervention. When we look at the development, I was just commenting on it here at another interpellation, and we really see that the number of people who have temporary protection and are taking on a humanitarian dose is dropping. As of 1 July, there will be a significant change in the area of housing support, where only vulnerable groups of these refugees will be able to stay in emergency accommodation, i.e. children and parents of children under the age of three, and persons over 65 and people with some type of disability. Other persons, if they are here for more than 150 days, will no longer be eligible for emergency accommodation, will be able to receive possibly humanitarian doses with indexing. Basically, it's quite a huge step in that we're clearly saying: if you're here for more than 150 days, you just have to find a job and you really have to get a lot more involved. There are limits to our level of solidarity, which we have agreed on. This was actually being prepared here at the turn of December and January of this year even here in the House. As far as cooperation with the Ukrainian side is concerned, I honestly say here, the response is very slow, so we are now in a situation where this week the Ukrainian Ministry has started to communicate more with us so that we can (?) be able to (?) for example, information on the individual degrees of invalidity and the certificates they have to do so. We are now also trying to get into some phase of an overview of people who are receiving support from the Ukrainian authorities. But at this point, I honestly say, we don't have the data we need today, and we don't even have a fixed deadline right now if we were able to say, we're gonna be able to exchange those data on a regular monthly basis. Unfortunately, we're not that far away. [[15.50 hours]] In general, about the question, as you said in the introduction, about how the social system will be with them in the future. I was also talking about it in public space. There was also some idea that perhaps from the beginning of next year, these people would gradually enter our standard system. At this point, we are at a stage where, after all the debates and analysis of what this would cost on the part of organisational costs, personnel costs on the part of the Labour Office, including expenditure on the state budget, we will not resort to this option. I suppose that if temporary protection was extended after 31 March 2024, we would respond to this by applying the current instruments with some other parametric modifications, because they are effective, relatively simple and do not bear such costs for the state as to how we need to ensure this in personnel terms, and at the same time on the basis of the expenditure for the state then these forms of support are cheaper, we must admit that. However, we still have to evaluate the final decision together with the other ministries. I am going to discuss this at the level of the Government with the Minister of the Interior and with other colleagues in the coming weeks, so that we can see how we will proceed in this regard. My proposal needs to be adjusted in this spirit, if necessary. Let us say that we can gradually reduce the level of support, have it in simple form and not take steps that would mean that the Labour Office will again be brutally overloaded. Now we get to work offices at least a little more normal, which, of course, is not ideal yet, but the strain and the load of turning these war refugees fully into a social system would simply be that the Labour Office would get into a lot of trouble again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u71	I thank the Minister and I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u72	I wanted to ask about the housing allowance now, because, as is generally known, you also said it here, will gradually turn off the contribution to housing support and it will be expected that as a result of their work, they will look for their own housing and rental. But these leases are expensive, of course, it's a city from the city and there's about 65 percent of women and about 28 percent of children, that is, is the question of whether these women make enough money to pay the rent from the paycheck, so we have kindergarten, lunch and so on for the kids. So do you suppose that in some way requests for housing contributions from the social system will increase? And if so, if you have any idea how much it's going to cost?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u73	Thank you for the additional question and the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u74	Thank you. I'm just going to make a small request not to combine the terminology of the housing allowance and the solidarity household allowance, because I don't expect Ukrainian war refugees to enter the housing allowance regime. We are counting on the fact that, as the humanitarian levy, including the indexed amounts, is set up to support housing, and this system is now under way following the housing register, so that this will be a form of housing support for Ukrainian refugees. The system will run fully from 1 July and it will mean that the standard solidarity household, where there is financial support for housing within one household, will no longer continue. Housing support will continue if the person is really in the apartment, whether physical or legal persons. The amount will be significantly reduced, it will not be the amount of CZK 350 per person today and day and night in the current emergency accommodation, there will be a maximum amount of up to CZK 15,000 for a group of one say family community, and it is possible that if, for example, two moms agree to take together apartment 3+1, they will be there two and they will have together each two and two children, so they can draw financial support for both of these family districts for that one apartment. So there's a way they can find a place at today's rental prices. But in fact, yes, there must be some activity at that point in time so that those who are in this emergency accommodation today and are needed in regions where they are concentrated, for example, into large accommodation facilities, those people must also look around to see if they can move to another part of the Republic to find the housing there. So the situation isn't exactly simple right now, we're trying to communicate. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u75	Thank you. Time's up. And we will proceed to the next interview that Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will give, and Mrs Marie Jílková can prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u76	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Secretary absent, but I believe that you will address this issue. During personal negotiations with businessmen in the region, we solved the problem of driving a Tatractor with a design speed of over 80 km in an hour on the highway. From the experience of the Tatractor owner, when the police stopped him on the freeway and fined him for not having a special permit, I intersect. Tatrators are vehicles where it is technically a road tractor with a semi-trailer and differs only administratively in the technical licence of vehicle categories. Simply put, it is a road law and a road traffic law, where these two laws go against each other in the question of the Tatrators. It would therefore be good to treat this exception from the point of view of all farmers by legislative means. Logically, it doesn't make any sense for tractors with semi-trailers to drive off the highways, even if they are designed to ride on it. Outside the highway, we create unnecessary hazardous conditions for other road users, disrupt the flow of traffic, over-pollute the environment, and also unnecessarily destroy the roads. From this point of view and experience, I would suggest that Tatras with a speed of 80 km per hour and higher can ride the highway and pay the toll like the others. In addition, Tatrators should be managed by persons from 21 years of age with a C plus E driving licence. The B4 ban mark - no entry of trucks - applied to tatractors outside the agricultural season. These are my tiny points that I would like to suggest that you deal with them at the Department of Transport, because if we take that tractor can drive people over 17 years of age, there could be a disaster. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u77	Thank you and will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days, as the Minister is duly excused. And we will therefore proceed to another interpellation with which Mrs Marie Jílková was drawn, but I do not see here in the hall, so this interpellation is failing. We are also coming to an interview by Mr Karel Rais and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will then be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u78	Thank you. Dear absent minister, my question is directed to a loan of 45 billion from the European Union. At the same time, a budget figure, a deficit of 271 billion, was presented a few hours ago today. Well, I don't really like the numbers here. On the one hand, we have debts, on the other hand, we are taking loans, on top of everything else, to reduce the deficit a little bit, all ministries are supposed to cut subsidies. The Department of Education accounts for a savings of 2 billion for this year, and it is necessary to note that most of the subsidies are provided by law to the Ministry of Education and are basically mandatory or quasi-mandatory expenditures, so again there is a problem where it will come from. In particular, these subsidies are directed towards public universities. So my question is that it has only been generally said that there will be a loan of CZK 45 billion from the European Union, and we do not actually know the terms... [[Minister Bek is coming into the hall.]] Thank you, the Minister is coming right now, so I'm going to repeat the question. The point is that I am interested in details of the loan of CZK 45 billion from the European Union, because even the information I had from the media is different - one says three years of payment, which I consider nonsense, the other says thirty years, which seems more logical to me. So this would basically be the one question. Then I have a few more interpellings to this area. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u79	Thank you and now the Minister of Education, Mikuláš Bek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u80	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. The loan is actually part of the negotiations for updating and supplementing the National Recovery Plan, because the source of the money, i.e. the renewal and resilience facility, allows the Member States of the European Union to draw on the subsidy part which is taken up in the National Recovery Plan and, at the same time, the Czech Republic can borrow up to CZK 350 billion roughly on the basis of the exchange rate, in a regime that is quite advantageous, because the repayment of the loan to the European Union is postponed by ten years, with the ten years being paid only by the interest rate that is European, albeit evolving over time, but not under the conditions that the Czech Republic borrows, because it has borrowed the European Union, and then twenty years being repaid for 5% a year, even by the principal. The government has dealt with the preparation of the loan in several rounds and it is still not decided definitively, because the process is that the government has shown an indicative interest in an interval that is relatively broad, because at the same time the European Commission has not yet communicated binding rules on the use of financial instruments under this loan. The government is preparing the loan in such a way that the vast majority of funds are used for financial instruments, not subsidies, even if it is the case for education that a significant part would be used for subsidies, even if from the point of view of that result it would be essentially an investment, because the loan is to be used in the field of education both to address the acute problems of infrastructure, but also to qualitative changes, which, in the event of a successful reduction in student stay, would actually justify the use of the loan for this purpose by the children in the educational system at the end of the country. Two weeks ago, the government took note of the material where the amount of 45 billion appears, although it is still not final, because there is a negotiation every day between the representatives of the government and the European Commission on the refinement of requirements. In these days, the regions also specify their absorption capacity in the area of school infrastructure. The Ministry of Education specifies the capacity in the field of basic and maternal education, and at this point I would not put a hand in the fire for that amount, because the key topic of the substantive debate with the European Commission concerns whether the financial instruments actually enable the implementation of those projects, which is given in 2026. This seems to be possible under certain conditions, so the subsidy part would have been used by 2026, but part of the financial instruments, such as the construction of school infrastructure or the start-up of a refund grant system for students, would have allowed the operation beyond the 2026 horizon if the intermediate institution was a sufficiently independent entity, which would probably be the National Development Bank. So that's the schematic. At this point, the negotiations are really very intense and I assume that we will be very clear in the autumn in the decision by the European Commission. Until then, negotiations will be held on the scale of those investments, the scale of reforms, lovers and so on. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u82	Thank you for the information I've basically heard the first time. I'd just put more on the table, usually the interest of the banks -- here's 5%, you say -- is more expensive than the interest on the government bond. If you're not actually considering issuing government bonds in that tens of years, if you haven't talked about it, because the interest is lower, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u83	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u84	Maybe I wasn't clear enough. For the first ten years, the interest rate is paid, only the interest, and this is determined by the conditions under which the European Union borrows - which was about 1.7 in the last period - and then paid in the next 20 years except for the interest of 5% of principal per year. So the interest rate at this point is more advantageous than other options, including loans from the European Investment Bank. That's the advantage of the loan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u85	Thank you. Next, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will intersect the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Topic: socio-health boundaries. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear Minister. At present, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health are working together on a new regulation of socio-health boundaries or rather long-term care. This proposal has been presented to us within the round table, and unfortunately I must say that although this issue has been addressed for a very long time, it is repeated in the current draft points, which have been discussed many times and have always been assessed as a significant risk to the stable functioning of these important services for the most vulnerable target groups. The proposed form is also rejected by expert associations and other stakeholders, in particular because the definition of the resulting status is completely lacking, there is also lack of justification and identification of resources to achieve it. The proposed changes concern the really and absolutely dominant way in the area of social services, so there is no way to talk about any compensation in both social and health matters. The proposal focuses only on residential social services. The area of field services is not addressed here, although MPSV always states that this type of service is a priority. The proposed changes also lack any impact analysis and it is really important to keep in mind that, in particular, for social service providers, the proposed changes would have significant financial implications as well as the impacts of investment and personnel. There are legitimate concerns that the proposal, as it was presented, and the changes will lead to an increase in the administrative burden and to the creation or increase of barriers to the provision of social-health services, which would undoubtedly lead to a relative reduction in current and future capacities, and that is certainly a completely opposite direction to which we would like and should go in long-term care. Therefore, I would like to ask whether, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the MPSV is based on some detailed impact analyses, especially in the social services segment, and I would also like to know how the next discussion of this proposal will take place, especially with professional associations and stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u87	I thank you and ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u88	Hello. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Mrs Hanzlíková, thank you for your intervention and I would therefore like to respond, through Mr President. I am, of course, aware that, as you have also mentioned, the whole debate on tackling the issue of social health and cooperation between these two areas in favour of clients has been going on for quite a long time, and so far, it has not actually been possible to find a common good solution to address this issue in many aspects. I think we need to zoom in a little bit, which, unfortunately, today means that we have a facility where we can provide high-quality, top-of-the-line health care, and we have a facility where we can provide top-notch social care for the client, but we're always missing the other part to balance. This means that sometimes ridiculous situations happen to us, where clients, because their health may be deteriorating significantly, move to some part, even a few days, to a health facility, then return again, and this unfortunately fails to set up a system that would allow, among other things, for us to have facilities where we are able to provide really very good both health and social care or service for a given client. [[16.10 hours]] We have ambition - and I'm not saying it's simple, I'm not saying it, and the debate is very complicated - here together with the Ministry of Health resort to look at the individual problems we have here, both in the area of definition of social health services. At this point we focus mainly on long-term bed or beds of long-term care. Then we want to look at the definition of a user or client of such a service, as well as the setting of conditions and the unification of access in connection with funding, because those who know this issue know that there are sometimes very complex moments where some specific performances are then difficult to demonstrate and pay for, for example, against the health insurance system and the like, so we have the ambition to try to find a compromise, to find a good proposal. Of course, I also see the feedback from, say, social service providers in the field of really practical remarks, I see that there are critical voices against some proposals. This means that we are still at a stage where the final paragrafo text will now be prepared and we will be sending this proposal to an extended internal commentary procedure. After that, we will also have an intermediate review procedure. I promised that I wanted to be present in person so that I could really get a chance to very well clarify how we would then include some proposals in the finals. The original ambition was to make it in cooperation from 1 January 2024. I'm just saying here rather than doing something fast at any cost, so maybe some of that month's efficiency will be delayed, but I'm aware that after the few experiments that have been here and that have not been done, this is a great opportunity to succeed. As ministers, both of us have made it clear that there can be no resortism, that we want a reasonable, good, effective solution for the benefit of the client to be found in this area. I believe we will succeed. We have a few more months to work on this proposal. I'm also sure glad that it is possible to participate in both round tables and communication, which - as I always say - we have open from the side of the resort, and if anyone comes up with suggestions or with any criticism, we definitely take them seriously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u89	Thank you, Minister. Please, Madame, your supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u90	Thank you for your answer. Of course, I understand that the term that was given there may be positive, because it really pushes it, really, to present the proposal, on the other hand, it is a risk at that time, because the issue is really very complex. But I wanted to ask one more specific question, because it resonates most with the social service providers, and this is a reference to the cancellation of the contractual obligation and their concern at all about how the expertise of 913 will be handled in the future. Although on the round table it was said that no cancellation is currently envisaged, but of course there will be some development. This is probably the biggest concern. I also share them because it also achieves this condition as it is now - and I am not saying that it is ideal, now I think with health insurance companies - it has been rather difficult, so any change or intervention can have really great consequences.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u91	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u92	Thank you. So I will also add the question of the contractual obligation: of course we will not give birth, we will not have contractions, but we will create contracts to pay for services. Of course, I noticed that this was one of the greatest critical remarks. At this point, I don't think we'd put it there in the finals, but we've removed this obligation because there's quite a lot of concern about it, although I don't think that these concerns will come true, but I understand these concerns and I don't want the whole debate on this step to actually break. So I say we keep this there, but it is certainly also appropriate to have a discussion on how - with Minister Válek, we talked about it - to look for other ways that relate to this area of what is paid from the area of subsidy, the contribution to the care and payment of the client, and what is paid from health insurance, because here are the moments where I think there is room for us to say that some of the actions are the ones that we should consider more to be the real medical ones that could be paid from health insurance and which are not there today. That's what this debate has to be about. In the first part of the questioning, you asked about the data and, say, the inputs on which the debate is being conducted. I think that here we are trying very closely to respond precisely to the fact that the whole part of the documentation for the impact assessment of this amendment is being done at the same time as the draft of the paragraphs, not as it is sometimes done, that they may be written in paragraphs and then an evaluation is being made. Here we are really trying to make sure that this is in line at expert level, so that it is for the benefit of practice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u93	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Pavel Růžička, whom I do not see in the hall. That's why we're going to another interpellation. Now Mrs Andrea Babišová will intersect Minister Vlastimil Válek - she is excused, well. In that case, the next in line is Mr Radek Koten with an interview with Minister Ivan Bartoš -- he is not present either. In that case, another interview, Mrs Berenika Peštová, with her intervention on Minister Michal Šalomoun, who is present. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u94	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, I'm gonna try to be awfully short in that one minute. In any event, there was currently a draft law on the consolidation of public budgets in the commentary procedure. This law was put into an interdepartmental commentary procedure for 5 days. According to legislative rules, the deadline for putting into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings is at least 20 days, of course, that if the petitioner requests an extension of the deadline, it may be longer, yes, the exceptions may be that the Prime Minister, which you are, may shorten this deadline. When I passed the laws, of course, I also sometimes asked for a reduction or reduction of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and I must say that it was for the laws that really changed one sentence or simply levelled something that was wrong in that law. In my life, I wouldn't dare ask for a shortening of a bill like the Waste Act. It's always been at least 20 days. In this law, 57 laws are being amended, and you have granted an exception. I would be interested to know on what basis, because when I read your comments that came from the Legislative Council of the Government, or from you, you are seriously blaming that this amendment was missed by what the exception was given to, or to what the exception was granted. At least this is what it says here: "They do not aim for savings or efficiency in order to reduce the structural deficit of the state budget or consolidate the state of public budgets and address completely other matters unrelated to the declared subject matter of the bill." And this reminder came from you as essential. That means it's a reminder that the petitioner has to deal with. Of course, there are some important comments now - I will complete them afterwards. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u95	Thank you. You'll have room for an additional question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u96	Mr President, Mrs, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this interview, but you have pulled me directly from the Government Legislative Council. Well, I granted an exception because I got a request for this exception and it seemed like a good idea, because actually the government's position is that there is actually a need to do something about the consolidation of public finances, and it needs to be done so that it is in the Collection of Laws by the end of the year. And what's the big deal is time. If we had more time, I wouldn't be so helpful about granting that exemption. [[16.20 hours]] It's basically the distribution of some sort of discomfort in the context of the whole thing. Either the comment procedure could be longer, but in fact nothing would change about it, neither the position of the government nor the comments that can be expected - and, of course, we expect comments from those concerned, who are in some way concerned and who do not like it. So the government has decided, and I have greatly helped this, that the discomfort in preparation will actually take place in the preparatory procedure, therefore the thickened procedure, therefore do it as quickly as possible, and the reason is that there is more time to discuss it in the Chamber of Deputies, because it will be essential there. Of course x of these things is a clash that is purely political, how to do it, and for that I need to say much more time than to settle those comments. That's why I went this way. And if you're talking about my comments, which I put there and stylized them as essential, I stylized them as essential mainly because the Ministry of Finance would essentially talk to me, but they are more or less legislatively technical in nature. The reminder you're referring to, she's referring to some leitmotive issue of so-called collection novels, like what anything could possibly be part of that collection novel. The point is in principle: there is some goal set here, which is consolidation of public finances, so something to do with this package needs to be put in the package. So everything that's been put in there needs to be well justified as to why it has its place there. This was the direction of the appeal, and this will also be the direction of the settlement of comments that will occur in about a week, and that is why it is done in this way. And if you're referring to your life's experience of drafting laws, you've probably just been in a position to do that, maybe you've had a lot more time than we currently have, and the only reason that's there is why it's so dense is time. Of course, I was also in the middle of a dilemma, if you don't miss the commentary procedure altogether. In fact, we had a discussion about this with the Minister of Finance. In the end, we agreed that not, that the commentary procedure, though forgiven by the government, must be done, even in the thickened form, and that is why we made it this way. I would still like to respond, I still have a little bit of time, to the narrative, that - yes, it's a lot, it's 57 amendments to the laws, but if you look at them in detail, part of the consolidation is actually a change of a certain organization in the recovery of something called a judicial claim, where today every judicial file so to speak, claims it itself. This is not entirely effective, and it needs to be delegated to the enforcement of the Customs Service, which is already doing so to a certain extent. So these are organizational standards that no one really remembers, it's a matter of internal organisation of the state. That's one thing. And the other thing that's still there is that there's going to be no stakes at all, so in all the regulations where there's some mention of stamps, it's typically needed in the rendering law, which is also being amended there, because there's a provision that the rendering certificate needs to be applied to the 200 Crown collection, so of course you have to cross it out, incorp it into the Act on Administrative Charges. So these organizational standards, there's really a bunch of them, I counted 19. So one third of them weren't even about the comment points at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u97	Your time. Well, Madame, now you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u98	Thank you. Of course, I realize that time, it's probably important to you, or rather it was the key. But I have also read comments from other comment points, whether it be the Czech Bar Association, whether it be the tax chamber, and they themselves mention that the first thing there is, on the contrary, that a terribly short period of time for it to come into the comment proceedings. But rather, they point out that as it is done in haste and speed, there may be no link between the laws. And I understand that Members here are legislators, they are those who adopt laws, but the legislation that goes to Parliament should already be prepared so that only flies really come out here, and not that now suddenly we're going to have an incredible charge here, and I don't think that all Members are so erudized that they can put themselves into all these laws in a way that they understand the whole essence of whether everything is being amended in the way that it is to be amended. [[Time.]] So I personally think it's wrong, and it was supposed to be there for at least 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u99	Thank you. Please, Minister, time for your response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u100	Madame, I'd like to put in 30 days, I just don't have them. I had to give the minimum, and that's five days. And one more such comparison from the past. When I also saw how these consolidation packages were going in the past, Topolánkův's backpack in 2009, when Miroslav Kalousek, Chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government, Pavel Svoboda, was the Minister of Finance at that time, there was no commentary procedure at all. If another package of Minister Janota was in the government of Jan Fischer, there was also no comment procedure. The only place where it took place was under Nečasův' government, also under Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek, so there was a commentary procedure of 6 working days. We're actually similar, and we're actually acting under a lot of time pressure here. If I were to put this as a parallel, the government is not the first time in this discomfort. If you take the way the ceiling was handled, it was three days, including the weekend, so this was still possible. And it is clear to me, as you said, that all Members may not be able to accommodate this width - yet once every Member is a specialist in something, and I am not afraid that there will be no individual experts in the various parts of your extensive parliamentary club. It's not that much. There are several tax regulations, and then you'll have the sickness insurance bill, and I think that's the gros of where the debate is going to take place. As I said before, such a change in the stamp or organizational standard that everything will be enforced by the Customs Administration, I think that your parliamentary club may not have any major reservations about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr Patrik Nacher, who I don't see in the hall, is the next enrollment. In that case, we will continue with another interpellation, and this is Mr Robert Stržínek, who interpels the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, allow me to address the question of Minister Válek here, by your means. Minister, I'm sure you're aware that 20 chief of staff, doctors and psychologists at the Psychiatric Hospital in Kroměříž filed a mass statement on Wednesday. These are more than half of the medical staff. The reason for their mass departure is, according to them, unprofessional hospital management. Disgruntled doctors and psychologists also pointed out the situation as their founder. The Kroměříž psychiatric hospital is the only bed facility of its kind for the entire Zlín Region and also for part of the South Moravian Region and Olomouc Region. So I ask what you have done so far and what you intend to do further to stabilise this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u103	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u104	Thank you, Mr President. The Ministry of Health has information about the situation in Kroměříž Psychiatric Hospital from both disgruntled doctors and doctors, as well as from the director Polák and after all from the Committee of the Psychiatric Society. Personal meetings were held with the relevant head of staff of the Ministry of Health with both parties, with Mr. Director Polák 3. 5. and with representatives of disgruntled employees on 17. 5. The director of the Psychiatric Hospital was clearly tasked with calming the situation from the Ministry of Health and taking measures to reverse threatening statements. Unfortunately, the director has not yet succeeded. I personally see it as problematic, above all, that the director is unable to enforce his vision of promoting psychiatric care at the Psychiatric Hospital Kroměříž and to obtain key employees for her, a large part of the head of individual departments. Being able to convince an employee of your vision is one of the basic tasks of the manager. It doesn't have to be an expert on the issue, I don't expect it from the directors, but I expect them to be able to promote their visions and convince workers who are key to their implementation. [[16.30 hours]] Unfortunately, the situation must now be addressed by the Ministry of Health as a founder, which is not pleasant. On Monday, the director of the hospital is invited to the Ministry, explaining his idea of further progress in this situation. At the same time, of course, we consult with the Committee of the Psychiatric Society, the Chair, but also with Professor Tomáš Kašpárek, who is my psychiatric advisor. From the point of view of the Ministry of Health it is absolutely essential, and it is crucial that care for patients is not compromised, and this, which is absolutely primary, will be subject to all the steps that the Ministry of Health will take. Otherwise, a visit to the Psychiatric Hospital is scheduled. I expect to go there with regional representatives and representatives of the expert company committee, either in the first stage or in the second stage, and, as in all hospitals and here, of course, a professional audit of the care provided will be carried out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u105	Thank you. You don't want a follow-up question? Is that okay? Thank you. Mr Radek Koten is now next on behalf of Minister Jan Lipavský. He's excused, you'll get an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have learned from the available media that, in a way, the entire government wants to save some money in every ministry, and I have also captured your statement that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not save. So I wanted to ask you if you're really serious about your consolidation package, that is, five-calice, or if you're out of the range of five-calice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs isn't going to save. Some citizens here in the Czech Republic are thus affected by a rather difficult situation with both energy prices, daily consumption for food and so on, and that is why your comments also seem somewhat out of place. Those people could be perceived by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as some sort of travel agency that eats through their money as taxpayers. So I would ask you to answer whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will in any way save and save some money, or whether you meant it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, including keeping time. Next up is Mr Pavel Růžička with an interview with Minister Jana Černochová. I do not see the Member anywhere, in which case another interpellation of Mr Karel Rais to Minister Mikuláš Bek. He too is excused, you will get an answer in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u108	Okay, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would continue to discuss the subsidies, because this afternoon we may have read on the Internet that basically universities and scientific organizations will lose about 2.1 billion crowns. These are so much fresh information and the question is how valid they are, so I would leave it to some other interpelation, but what is quite obvious is that basically universities have a promised extra 1 billion crowns. On the basis of this, this promise, the representation of universities has withdrawn objections against the Ministry of Education, Mr Baláž. So my point is, what's the deal with the billion, if there's a chance, and on the other hand, we should be cutting as a whole resort of $2 billion. So this is what I'm talking about, if we're going to save the 2 billion, and from what resources we're going to give it, whether it's from the investment or the payroll of Chapter 333. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u109	Thank you. The Minister is present, so he can answer you in person. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u110	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for this question too. I'm sorry, I'm running between a few places here in the building. The debate on the next year's budget is really at the beginning. Saving national funds is simply a political commitment that we agreed on in the coalition and in the government, but the concrete implementation of this commitment is a matter that relates both to the negotiation of the state budget, but also to how we can finally look comprehensively at all the financial resources that we are putting into education and, for example, higher education. We actually have a long experience with this. In the past, the debate has sometimes been very excited about the national funds, but rather recklessly about European funds, whether in operational programmes or in the National Recovery Plan. In the difficult budgetary situation that we are facing today, it is clear that we must look at all the resources at the same time, and there it turns out that, of course, there is much more resources. In the Jan Amos Komenský operational programme, there are a number of challenges prepared for universities at the moment. Also in the loan considered, there are resources that should also serve universities, for example in the reform of doctoral studies. And I am prepared to look for reserves in European funds so that, under the necessary austerity regime, we do not endanger the vital interests that are needed. I admit, at this point, I can't tell you exactly where the necessary savings are going to end up, whether it's more in the investment or non-investment part. So far, it seems to me that the investment part will make it easier to replace it with European funds without endangering anything, and maybe we will bring even more motivation to rationality into the investment system. For example, the preparation of some large investments by some universities is taking place slightly lightly in my opinion and the increase in the budget of some projects by billions in the National Recovery Plan raises in me a question which I will ask the representation of universities at the Czech Rectors' Conference on 8 June whether they consider public universities to be more reasonable at this time difficult to invest so significantly in infrastructure, in buildings, or whether it is appropriate to seek a way to encourage investment in people. I think it's for a serious representation debate. I do not want to shoot any thesis right now, but I expect a very open debate with university rectors and then with the College Council on how to behave at such a time when there is an economic recession or at least stagnation. I answer as honestly as I can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u111	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u112	We both have some kind of practice, so I think at some point it's really better to invest in people than in concrete, but that's a question of a really specific situation, it can't be this... I would have one more question, which we have forgotten as well. I don't mean to provoke you, but what about the promised billion, which basically calmed down the unionists at the universities, if there's anything we can do about it - if the minister says so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u113	Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u114	I must say, I followed the debate in the first half of this year from a certain distance. Of course, there is no 900 million in the state budget this year. On the contrary, there is clearly a need for further savings in the state budget at the moment. And I have to say, if I've been trying to figure out an image of the situation, he's obviously colorful. At the same faculty university with the same economic possibilities and historical burden coefficient - one has the highest salaries at the university and the other has the lowest, under the same conditions of the internal budgeting of the university and under the same conditions of financing the whole system. Since I am alone in the Faculty of Philosophy, we have always been proud in Brno that we have an average salary in all categories of academic employees, a salary against other philosophical faculties, tens of thousands higher in an effective internal organization. [[16.40 hours]] I must say that I consider the problem primarily to be a problem of the failure of the academic authorities of some universities at both the faculty and the rectorate level, because the budgets that generate the injustice are approved by the academic senators on the proposal of the rectors of the universities concerned, and I think it is essential that we put data back on the table very openly. I am prepared to look for solutions that would help better management of universities, I am prepared to look for additional funds, although I fear that after the New Year rather than the end of this year, if I am honest, because the deteriorating balance of the state budget does not, in my view, record much intervention. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u115	Thank you. Next, Mr. Zdeněk Kettner will speak to Minister Mikuláš Bek again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u116	Thank you for the floor. Hello again today, Minister. I have a question. When taking up office, you said that, of course, you would be very happy to consult and communicate in some way, even with an outside parliamentary opposition, with which I agree, because education is specific in that if we introduce any reform, it has a very long time when the reform is under way, and then, of course, we need some time to evaluate how effective the reform has been. During the last few parliamentary periods as an employee in education, I have seen that, before we could even find out how effective the reform was, another reform was overcoming it again and it was not for the benefit of the matter at all, so I very much welcomed your words. I noticed in the paper - it was yesterday - that you were already negotiating with the opposition. It hasn't been with us yet, so I wanted to ask if your words are valid and whether we can look forward to working together in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u117	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I have so far managed in this tense time the first round of negotiations with the first of the parties from the Parliament of the opposition, and I also offer the SPD movement a bilateral meeting in the format that we agree on and in the cast that you prefer. I think it's really important. I think it is essential that we look for, if only a little bit possible, a consensus that goes beyond the borders, perhaps even this House, because education now faces problems with basic and secondary education capacity, and these levels of education systems are in the dominant responsibility of municipalities and regions where various coalitions rule, and I am convinced that we need to discuss these changes. Although we may necessarily disagree on everything, I certainly believe that it is appropriate for us to discuss and seek a solution together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u119	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u120	Thank you. It's not a question of thanking you for those words, and I'm sure we'll take advantage of that offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u121	Thank you, too. Mr Vladimír Zlínský will now speak with his intervention, intersecting Minister Vlastimil Válek. [[The Minister of Health gestures towards the President.]] In that case, I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I made a mistake. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u122	All right, thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd have an interview for you, I'd ask you about your entrance exams in high school, even though you yourself mentioned in the previous performance that high school is in the jurisdiction of the regions. According to parents' reports and reports that have been filling the media for the past few weeks, this year's situation remains even worse than in previous years. In some regions in particular, the situation is bad, and I am talking specifically about my home Prague and also about the follow-up Central Bohemia region. The biggest problems faced this year seem to be the grammar school in Prague. The interest in them was so great that a number of pupils did not receive the same scores they would have received in previous years without any problems. This year, not even 90 points out of 100 were enough for some applicants to get to the grammar school. Celorepubliky may be enough places, but we will probably not assume that children from Prague will want to apply to secondary schools in northern Bohemia, for example, because there is enough space there. At the same time, I do not consider it an appropriate solution to offer students for high school or high school graduates as an alternative to the field of education. But there are more problems in the admission process. Each candidate can only submit two applications, then parents and pupils have to strategize, secondary schools do not conduct personal interviews, actually the only way they assess applicants after the school is the result of one test. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, whether you are planning to address the situation or to participate in the solution and how and whether you are planning a necessary reform of the admission procedures or the entrance exams themselves with the regions as the founder of secondary schools.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I will ask the Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question which is now really focused on the acute problem that we are all experiencing firsthand. I must say this: there is still no quantified picture of what really happened in this admission procedure. We know individual cases, often mediated, but the system is historically set up so that we may not have a quantified picture of what locations, regions, there has been a significant overhang, where the overhang corresponds to long-term trends and trends. From day one, I have paid the utmost attention to this matter and I have held a number of meetings with councillors for education from Prague, Central Bohemia, South Moravia, which are regions where the situation seems to be the most explosive, but we have also discussed with the Prime Minister representatives of all regions in order to create a more accurate picture of the situation. There's a saying in education as well as in other schools that anyone who sleeps is going to lie down. But the problem with education is that it takes several years to grow and responsibility for capacity, I must say, is shared. Of course, the primary responsibility lies with the founders - Prague and the regions, but the Ministry of Education also has a share of responsibility, as it lays down in its long-term intention some boundaries for what the regions can do with the capacity and structure of their secondary schools. We are now following the long-term plan that has been developed in the past, and we are currently preparing a new long-term plan, which is an opportunity for us to finally adapt the supply to an quite obvious demand, which has its causes in some long-term trends, to be strengthened by migration to the vicinity of large cities. The whole problem is emotionally deepened and stressful for both children and their parents by taking a prehistoric approach from my point of view, a paper form that has not yet been able to introduce an electronic application, which would not only allow for a foreseeable shortening of the period, which will expire between the course of the entrance exam uniform and the decision to which the applicant got the school, but would also allow the submission of more applications for more schools in some order, where it would be possible to evaluate applications very quickly. [[16.50 hours]] I immediately assigned a team at the Ministry of Education to prepare an electronic application, I myself implemented an electronic application at my university as a rector and introduced it as a mandatory journey. I know what legal difficulties this has to do with it. Unfortunately, our law is very detailed in terms of education, so almost every change assumes legislative change too, and at this point I did not want to promise the public that within a year and a day admission proceedings will take place electronically, but we will do everything we can to make this happen. I will also appeal to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to support the necessary legislative adjustments, because the simple electronicisation of this process without major changes to the concept would already bring great relief. I personally believe that within a year we have a chance to do electronization, but in principle leave the form of the process as it is, with the difference that there might be three applications instead of two and there would be a clear order. But from my point of view, the ideal condition would be if the applicants could submit five or seven applications in order and a single test would be carried out in elementary school so that they would not have to cross over, attend other schools. But that's a bigger hit that I think is real over the next two years. It's very important that we find the way, there's nothing political about it, I don't think there's anything ideological about it. The point is that we act quickly both in legislative terms and in competition terms and test a robust information system that must be tested before deciding the fates of children. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u125	Thank you. Won't there be an additional question? Thank you. And so now the previously announced MP Vladimír Zlínský with an interview with the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u126	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to information from the mainstream media, the European Commission has agreed with Pfizer/BioNTech to modify contracts for massive supplies of covid-19 vaccines, where some of the previously contracted benefits will not have to be withdrawn by the States. But he has to pay the cancellation fee. The amount of the cancellation fee is not known or the financial value of the previously ordered vaccines is not known. Allegedly, the cancellation fee is significantly lower than the amount for the ordered vaccines that we will not take away. Both the Government and the representatives of the European Commission refer to the secret treaty regime. Since 2021, almost 10.9 million doses for CZK 4.7 billion have been disposed of in our country. The state of the last few months indicates a slim interest in vaccination. According to available information, the Czech Republic was expected to receive approximately 11 million doses for more than 5 billion crowns this year. Nearly 2 billion will be saved after the amendment is negotiated. Dear Minister, what is the expiration time for these new types of vaccines? I would also like to know if you think that withholding the data from that contract supports the already significantly impaired confidence in the effectiveness and safety of used types of covid-19 vaccines and whether you support this system of non-discriminatory measures to address the future pandemic - whether public confidence is of greater value than the will of the population because of the waste of financial state resources and whether it is right for countries to bear all the risks arising from the planning and implementation of vaccination. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u127	I thank you for your time, and I ask the Minister to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I could, of course, answer that, like you, Mr Member, I have been in opposition for the past four years, and that I have not negotiated, signed, approved, ordered vaccines, and therefore I have inherited something and put out a fire. Then I would feel like a fool, and I would probably return my diploma, because whoever at that time was the Minister of Health around the world and throughout Europe, whoever understood medicine at least a little bit, would have done the same thing Adam Vojtěch did, would have ordered vaccines for the citizens of the Czech Republic to save lives, which was happening. When health care becomes part of political struggles, it leads to disaster. Countries that have decided to make political parties agree that all matters only to patients, and not to political struggles, have moved the health sector farther than, unfortunately, to our own. It should be noted that the Czech Republic has not paid any penalty payment - the Czech Republic has not paid any penalty payment and I guarantee it. Thanks to the hard work of colleagues from the Ministry of Health, during the Czech Presidency it was possible to agree on an agreement between Member States and the manufacturer of the vaccine by BioNTech/Pfizer to reduce the volume of doses, not only in the Czech Republic but throughout Europe. This amendment to the contract has now been signed, i.e. the amount of benefits ordered has decreased. The Czech Republic, like the rest of the EU, concluded a contract with the manufacturer in 2021 guaranteeing relatively high volumes of vaccine deliveries by the end of 2023. If we were unable to conclude this amendment, we would have to pay all the ordered vaccines by the end of this year, as was in the original contract. The supplement guarantees a substantial reduction in the volume of vaccines that the Czech Republic must remove, distribution of supplies for the longest possible time - until the end of 2026, we will always receive vaccines with the latest composition, i.e. those that will be newly produced or modified - if a vaccine occurs simultaneously against covid and flu, then we will, of course, get this, and the price is fixed no matter how inflation develops or how anything develops, on the original amount agreed by the European Commission or previous governments with the company. For the entire duration of the contract, the commercial price, which today is roughly twice as high for those countries that did not sign the contracts at the time, than that price fixed in the contract. What was discussed yesterday's article in Novinky. cz as a penalty fee, there is actually a fee for the possibility of reducing the volume of supplies. We will pay a small fee for each vaccine that the Czech Republic will not have to remove and thus store and dispose of at its own expense. The signed amendment is not ideal, but we must realise that there was a very difficult situation in the negotiations, because the states were in a disadvantageous position when the manufacturer had no reason to withdraw from the contract. The contract was just signed, it's a proper contract. It is a treaty that has been voluntarily signed by all EU countries, not the Commission, all EU countries, and has been signed correctly. They signed it because they protected people's lives, protected patients - EU citizens. That means I absolutely wouldn't go down to any criticism, and I never did, but it was just signed. In the meantime, the situation has evolved, and we have begun to push for a change in the situation, and the result of a change in the situation is the signing of this appendix, or two amendments. If this amendment had not been signed, the Czech Republic would have had to pay more than CZK 5 billion for vaccines this year, CZK 5 billion! The fact that the amendment is the only solution proves that all states, with the exception of Poland and Romania, have joined. While Romania is the reason for forming a new government, Poland is the result of a long-standing judicial dispute. Both countries thus remain bound by the original contract which they must comply with. I cannot share the details of the contract, and that is a problem, but unfortunately, for international treaties it is simply so, for any international treaty it is quite common, but I can assure you that thanks to the hard work of my colleagues, but also my predecessors at the Ministry of Health managed to save the state the cost this year in the amount of CZK 2 billion. Moreover, if we were to expect that if we did not sign the contract we would have to buy the entire substance, it would be CZK 5 billion this year, or by the end of 2023. [[Time.]] I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u129	Thank you. The Member will ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u130	Dear Minister, I'm sorry, I didn't catch a penalty between the fee. In the end, it was in the news, just as you mentioned, I was coming out of the article. The truth is, some funds are going to cost us, whether it's a fee or a penalty. On the other hand, I admit there will be some savings. [[17,00 hours]] But I was more asking if our state and the ministry will learn from this, if we simply get out of such an impenetrable ordering of vaccines to order with greater discretion. I understand it's so hard to plan, no one knows how the pandemic will evolve, that's for sure. But after all, I think it was in pig flu or bird flu - I don't know exactly - where many vaccines were ordered, which then had to be disposed of. This must be accepted in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u131	Thank you. Please, Minister, your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ambassador, there's nothing to apologize for. That article in The News would confuse anyone. It's just that you come from sources that are, that's just the way it is. We have learned, and not only we, but all of Europe, in the sense that the Czech Republic as one of the few countries has not responded hysterically to monkey pox, but we have basically obtained vaccines for free. In this respect, we have negotiated the same thing during our Presidency for the whole of Europe. There was no purchase of any large number of vaccines, even if necessary. Of course, it's always the pressure when this situation comes up, it's huge, but in the case of the covid, the pressure wasn't huge, the pressure was completely rational and real, and the original idea was that vaccination would have to be much more difficult. Let us remember that not only the Czech Republic but also other countries had the idea of introducing compulsory vaccinations. Other vaccines do not progress like this, the Czech Republic has never progressed like this. We always - and we both know that because we're doctors - order a vaccine per population, register for vaccinations, arrange it. Of course, the situation will continue to develop, and I do not think that the situation will repeat as it was in the case of the purchase. The situation had to be resolved very quickly at the time. If the contract hadn't been signed at the time, we wouldn't have had the vaccine, we couldn't have vaccinated, let's be aware of that. Let us remember again what the situation looked like three years ago. One quickly forgets what was a few days ago, and what was a few years ago, one doesn't usually want to remember that at all. I mean, not only did the Czech Republic learn, but the whole of the European Union, back under our Presidency, in that central purchases of particularly expensive resources significantly reduce the cost of the individual drug. That is why we would like to discuss central purchases of, for example, rare medicines, central medicines that save people's lives and cost tens of millions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u133	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Jiří Mašek will now speak again with an interview on you, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u134	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, my contribution is on the subject of medicine, emergency, waiting times, where we have moved. Minister, we asked you repeatedly at the time when the problem began, about the question of drugs. At the end of last year you answered: It's about the market, it's about pharmacies, it's about supplier-customer relationships, it's about products, the Ministry can't control it. On the topic of emergency that collapsed at the end of the year, you answered: This is not ministerial, in most cases it is regions and in a few cases in our established organizations as in faculty hospitals, but most of them are regions. We also asked about waiting times, and in those waiting times you said again: It concerns health insurance companies, they should keep an eye on it. Health insurance companies do not want to keep an eye on this altogether, because when waiting times are very short, more frequent performance reports can be derived, and therefore more health insurance expenditures. We were able to convince you here in the House that you took it politically, that it is really health as a whole, and you are politically responsible for it. That's why my questions are, how we've moved since then, because you've been doing it a lot in January. You and the Prime Minister met with drug manufacturers, distributors, and something started to happen. In the emergency room, I noticed that you came in contact with the individual officers, and there's something going on, too, so I'd like to know the status. For waiting times, which from my point of view are miserable somewhere, and I have little data, but for example a neurologist in Ostrava hospital is waiting 20 weeks, for an ordinary examination of the sono 10 weeks, for an MRI of 12 weeks, so if you go in here in any way, you'll want to follow this and there will be some standards that we'll actually see, what kind of examination and at what time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u135	Thank you for respecting time. Please, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mr. Ambassador, if it were three interpelations, I'd be able to answer. I can't make it now, but I will. With regard to drugs: in the context of dealing with a situation concerning the lack of certain medicinal products, especially from the antibiotic group - we both know that - a working group has been set up. I'll just repeat it, they're representatives of the Ministry, SÚKL, the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, pharmaceutical distributors. Effective cooperation has been set up. I'll give you the test, because I don't want to torture you with how fast I'm gonna read it, so I'm gonna give it to you completely, don't worry. [[He's turning to stenographers.]] Effective cooperation on the transmission of information on the current stock situation every day from distributors and certain pharmacies: there is practically a daily discussion with manufacturers and distributors of medicines on the possibility of increasing doses. I am 100% sure that we are very well prepared in the autumn, and we have approached new manufacturers, new suppliers who have never been to the Czech Republic. We made extraordinary imports. I've said that a couple of times. There's no point in repeating it. Thanks to this intensive work of the working group, all basic antibiotics are available at the moment in both forms of tablets and syrups for young children. Unfortunately, not in all pharmacies, because here it is necessary to change the legislation that I submit to the government sometime in June, and I hope that it will quickly come to the Chamber of Deputies. It will follow up on the other two that we have already adopted. Attention is currently focused on dealing with availability situations in other therapeutic groups and ensuring sufficient medicines for next season or autumn. The information on medicinal products for which the marketing authorisation holder has notified the interruption of deliveries is publicly available. It works online, changes with new announcements. I was just dealing with one particular case where one company located in the Czech Republic registers this product in Slovakia and refuses to register it in the Czech Republic - not because there is a lower remuneration than in Slovakia. The reason is completely losing any rationality and we're dealing with the company that doesn't want to register the product. I tried to make a breakthrough that we agreed with VZP and asked VZP to register a drug that the company does not want to register with us. I'm extremely curious to see if it's going to be legal and if we're going to make it. We have discovered a new path that has been repeatedly claimed not to be possible. However, I draw attention to the fact that when the interruption of deliveries from the holder is announced, this does not automatically mean that there is no availability of medicines for patients. The medicine can be in sufficient quantities in distribution, it can be stored in pharmacies, which can be seen in the data published by SÚKL. We're gonna have to be able to monitor the system much better here. A number of steps that work now only happen because cooperation with distributors is very good, even with a number of manufacturers is very good. It is necessary to thank manufacturers in this regard - those who behave correctly and solidly. Of course, there is an amazing collaboration with the Pharmacy Chamber as well. On the question of the LPS: since 2025, I want them to take over the obligation to secure the LPS from the regions of the health insurance company. The discussion here has reached a point where I believe that I can say that the insurance companies agree. It's a proposal that came out of the county. I think that's the right suggestion. I would like to stress that, even in this Chamber of Deputies, I do not think that Members who are not doctors realize how much the difference between urgent income in hospitals and medical emergency services is. I'm sure the layman can't tell when to go to medical emergency and when to get an emergency. The adult LPS will be made up of a backbone network of urgent income as indefensible. The children's LPS - and we're also linking the grant title - will be in the children's bed rooms, where the cover is low. The dental LPS will be composed of a combination of private practice and professional metropolitan emergencies. This is discussed in the dentist advisory group, where the discussion has not yet ended. Other things were discussed with professional companies, with regions, with insurance companies. On this basis, I will submit an amendment to the Chamber of Deputies next year. Hospitals will have an obligation within the framework of urgent income to provide room for providing LPS, i.e. space, but not to operate the LPS. Staff and availability of care will be required to provide insurance. The Ministry expects greater involvement of practitioners in adult LPS. As part of the conciliation procedure for 2024, the possibility of financial motivation of practitioners for involvement is discussed both ways. Apart from the LPS backbone network, insurance companies can also agree with providers to set up LPS in other places - there is something the Ministry of Health wants - where there is, for example, low availability of urgent income. Overall, however, it is expected to reduce emergency response, linking to urgent revenue. At the same time, significant financial reinforcement of LPS and urgent income is planned where the 24/7/365 situation is ensured to ensure non-loss traffic, possibly bonification for children's patients - that is what I would like this year in the payment decree, because these are, of course, more expensive - and, of course, the bonus for holidays and weekends. If I have time, I will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. So if I recapitulate the medications, we should be able to do it with the basic medications in the fall, and the situation should be normalized next year, okay? Thank you for that. Around the LPS, I'm very happy for that. Binding to urgent income, it's from our period, and when the LPS office is under urgent income, the patient doesn't have to worry about whether he's going to an emergency or to the LPS, he just comes to one place. A perfect solution, it'll take a few years, I hope we make it, and I'm glad you've dealt with the county in this. And we have the waiting times left, and, Minister, you didn't know each other completely, that it was an insurance business. Like I said, insurance companies don't know each other, either, because there would be a lot of performances if they pushed it, and it would cost the whole thing. But I still think it's important because for many people to wait eight weeks for an ordinary sono, for a magnet, 12 weeks, for a neurologist for 20 weeks, so it's a problem and, for example, for oncological patients and the like, they might fall out of the therapeutic window under diagnostics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u138	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u139	In addition to these LPS - intensive meetings with regions are held here all the time, with the chair of the Association of Regions and with health insurance companies and the issue is discussed continuously within the working group for primary care, which is crucial in this case, with representatives of the Association of Hospitals of the Czech Republic and the Association of Czech and Moravian Hospitals. The county agrees. Of course, I think it's the right path. I think we can all agree on this. As far as waiting periods are concerned: health services are to be provided within a medical time, determined with regard to the patient's medical condition, so this is defined, this must correspond to the waiting period. For selected types of care, and those are clearly defined, maximum waiting times are set for its provision. Such time availability of health services is required to ensure health insurance of insurance companies under Government Regulation No. 307/2012 Coll., on the local and temporal availability of health insurance companies, and if this is not the case, of course the Ministry of Health addresses the relevant insurance company. That's why we accentated the page inaccessible.mzcr.cz To which patients with inadequate care can write their requirements and the Ministry will allocate several workers to do so. The Ministry of Health has dealt with waiting times for a long time, of course, but the problem of waiting times, and I have tried to explain this here, is complicated in the fact that for acute examinations there must not be a waiting period, for hospitalized patients it must be as short as possible and for outpatient patients it depends on a number of factors, of which the key is whether an outpatient patient indicates an acute patient as a statimus, and here the ministry has several activities where we want to clearly define how to identify an acute patient. We treat professional companies in the sense of elective planned care, which is ordered for half a year in advance. We publish the information on the website, and I'm gonna drag it out, I'm sorry, but we want to evaluate the quality of care much better, which was said by, for example, the conference that we had with gynecologists. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u140	Thank you, Minister. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk will now speak to the Minister of Finance. Since he is excused, you will receive an answer in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Yet I will speak directly to the Minister. Dear absent here, Minister Stanjur, my question will be directed towards budgetary determination of taxes on regions and cities and municipalities. When you presented your consolidation package, there was no mention of this - not a word, not a comma. But then it appeared in eKLEP that you want to shorten the budgetary determination of taxes for the regions and for the municipalities, of course also the cities - part. I'm interested in how did you come up with a number that will be reduced by the share of taxes on the outskirts and then in the towns and villages? It's not that you just figured out how much money you're missing, and then somehow you counted it backwards - where there's nothing, there's no devil taking it, so you just went to the counties and villages? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u142	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Karel Rais, with an interview with Minister Mikuláš Bek on the amendment of the school system. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u143	Have a good day again. I wouldn't have been so involved if that information had been said normal in media space. What I know about the change in the school system, which, of course, I'm very interested in, I think it's going to be a huge change. Actually, it's going to be a 8.2.2 system, if we're going to talk about it kind of work, and I'm talking about how this project is being developed, because here in this room, I've already experienced an inclusion that was being done on the march and it was kind of - well, it certainly wasn't the optimal process if I was diplomat. So I think that to make the 8.2.2 system work optimally, it should probably be clear what the project will look like. This is the essence of my interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u144	Thank you, too, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this, too, which, of course, is on the subject which is already subject to a rather broad public debate, and I am glad for that. In fact, I consider it important to send out a clear signal at the beginning of my work that I am prepared to take steps in the role of the Minister of Education which are not entirely simple, which go beyond the term of office of this government, but are, in my view, the steps that logically result from previous political and expert discussions, which actually indicate some basic deficits in the Czech education system since the 1990s, such as social barriers when accessing the higher levels of the education system or the ever-increasing discrepancy between demand and supply in the field of secondary education. I am convinced that if we want to start dealing with these problems seriously, we need a quick, intense political debate supported by expert arguments. By the end of this month - today is June 1st - I would like to present the first draft of the strategy for opponentship. I assume that on 23 June, a representative assembly of representatives of both the political sphere and the professional public will meet for the first time at the Senate's premises under the auspices of leading constitutional officials. I'm calling it a gathering, still working, the National Convention on Education. It should be a permanent one for a certain period, but the conference where I would like to discuss, present, oppose the proposals that we are going to come up with, because I am convinced, after experience with events such as the Conference on the Future of Europe, that institutionalisation of the debate is important in order to guide it in a concentrated, efficient and transparent way. I am aware that it is in my power to prepare the legislative outline of these changes, but it is clear that they can only be implemented a little later in principle. For example, if we were able to agree to extend compulsory schooling or to shorten primary school and modify the beginning of secondary school study, I believe that the first possible stage of change in implementation will occur in the school year 2026/2027, when the nationwide population of 15-year-olds entering high school today will start to decline and to some extent the capacity of secondary schools will be relieved. But at the same time it is clear that the maneuver would have to take place at a time interval of at least five years, because especially in critical areas - Prague, around Prague, Brno, surrounding Brno - it is clear that I would have to repeat the process that I experienced as a child - a gymnast, or I entered a gymnasium with the choice of leaving 8th or 9th grade. Regions, founders have the opportunity to manage the process well, because they can open first-year secondary schools dedicated to either eighth graders or ninth graders, and it is clear that the process could take place more quickly in some regions due to sufficient capacities. But more slowly in some regions. The exact scenario will be the subject of debate. [[17.20 hours]] I consider it important that, together with the founder, we really carefully analyse the demographic and migration situation in individual regions, but, of course, political agreement must prevent this on the basis of expert arguments. I went to Karlovy Vary on Monday and visited some elementary schools, I had a debate with the elementary and secondary school directors. It is precisely those regions where social barriers or demotivations to further education are concentrated that may be a place where the debate on the extension of compulsory schooling may make more sense at first sight than, of course, in regions such as Prague, where the vast majority of people continue their studies with forgiveness. And I think that's an extremely important dimension of debate. Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u146	Thank you, too, Minister. An additional question to be asked by the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u147	It's not a question, it's more like two comments. One - that I assume how it went down here this afternoon, that there's going to be a pretty big link to changes in other laws, or that it's going to be a really wider problem, and the other - because actually, the schedule is going to happen more or less after that 23. 6, so there's no point in me asking that in five, ten minutes, so I'd cancel my interpelration and wait for that 23. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u148	A brief reaction from the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u149	Just a quick reaction. This does not, of course, mean that the committee responsible for the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and other grémia which are intended to do so will not be a key partner for me. I really care about achieving a key consensus on those steps, because otherwise we're gonna miss two more years of changes that many of us are aware of with forgiveness that should have happened more years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-01-ps2021-065-06-008-137.u150	Thank you. If I understand correctly, you're interrupting and withdrawing the next interpelration. Thank you. Next in line is Mr Patrik Nacher's interpellation, which I do not see in the hall, which is why I am interrupting this interpellation. Let's move on. As another interview by Mr Radek Koten, who is not present in the hall. Let's keep going. As another interview, Mr Zdeněk Kettner is also absent from the hall. Another three interventions are Mr. Pavel Růžička, who is also not present in the hall. By doing so, we have exhausted the complete list of today's oral interventions as they were drawn in the order. I will also read the apologies: today, as of 14.30, Mr Vladimír Balaš apologizes for his professional reasons, and from 17.15, Mrs Lucie Potůčková apologises for her professional reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, given that we have exhausted the entire oral interview program today, thank you and I am interrupting the House of Deputies' meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
