ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth meeting on the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that my absence from hearing has been requested by the following Members for the whole day, for the whole day, for the Wenzl day, for the Crkvenjaš day, for the whole Zlínský, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the Metnar reason, for the whole Oulehlová, for the Pavla day, for the whole day, for the whole day for the Vondráček of the family, for the Miloslav day for health Golasowská, for Miroslav of the Liška Renata, for Radek of the case, for Ivo of the Vondrák, for Munzar of the case, for Jiří of the case, for Staněk of the case, for Jan of the case, for Kasal of the Bauer day, for reasons of the case, for Petr of the Letocha, for Volný of the Jan day, for Pavel of the Stanislav, for Krutáková of the Zborovský, for Lukáš of the Vlček day, for reasons of the case, for Karel of the case, for Růžička of the Pavel Žáček, for Lubomír of the Robert, for Stržínek of the Ondřej Babka, for Vladimír of the case, for reasons of the Jarmila Levko, for reasons of the case, for reasons of the case of the case, for which the case, for reasons of the case, for Ženíšek of the whole day, for Jan of the whole day of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case, of the case of the Zdenka Němečková of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case of the case, of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the whole day, of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case, of the case, of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case, of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the whole day of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case He apologizes from the members of the government: Prime Minister Petr Fiala for the whole day due to foreign travel, Minister Vladimír Balaš for the whole day for health reasons, Minister Mikuláš Bek for the whole day due to work, Minister Pavel Blažek for the whole day due to work, Minister Jana Černochová for the whole day due to work, Minister Jan Lipavskýý for the whole day due to work, Minister Zdeněk Nekula for the whole day due to work, Minister Vít Rakušan for the whole day due to personal reasons, Minister Jozef Síkela for the whole day due to personal reasons, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura for the whole day due to health reasons, Minister Michal Šalomoun from 10 o'clock for the reasons of work and Minister Vlastimil Válek for the whole day due to work. I am adjusting one more note, Mr Zlínský apologizes only from 12 o'clock. Mr. Jan Hofmann cancels his apology for today. Today's meeting should start with a fixed item from the third reading block, that is point 88, it is the House Press 263, the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. We would then, if necessary, continue with other points from the third reading block: it is paragraph 89, House printing 312; paragraph 87, House printing 249; paragraph 86, House printing 238, and paragraph 85, House printing 48. Then we should focus, as we have already decided, on the points of the Law block - second reading. It is item number 2, House press 288, and point 3, House press 346. Furthermore, we should continue with points from the Act block - first reading according to the voting order: paragraph 13, House printing 371; 14, House printing 372; paragraph 5, House printing 350; paragraph 9, House printing 366; paragraph 8, House printing 362; paragraph 6, House printing 360, and paragraph 7, House printing 361. I have a number of applications regarding the motion to amend the agenda, and I will first ask President Jakub Michálek to speak with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to propose two amendments to today's agenda, namely that we would start with lex Ukraine, House Press 374, second reading - that would be the first point of today, and the second point of today would be the point of 86, investment companies, third reading, and then we would continue according to the agenda of the meeting, i.e. the point of Czech Television and the following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u3	I'm gonna ask those investment companies for a point number and a press number, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u4	The investment company is paragraph 86, House printing 238.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u5	Thank you. I'll take note of your proposal. And I have a number of applications with proposals for today's program. Another priority right is given to Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Well, all we have to do is basically try to add points to the program, because even though we have heard your call, that we should keep it for an interview, so we really have tried, but unfortunately, we've all been talking here in an empty hall, so you can't be surprised that we're going to try to include the most pressing problems at the meeting today, because I think there are really things that the Chamber of Deputies should be dealing with. We must all realise that as we sit here, we are paid from taxpayers' money, Czech taxpayers, and they deserve answers to some questions. [[9.10 hours]] I would like to ask for the first point at today's meeting, namely housing in the Czech Republic, because what is happening now and how the housing crisis is deepening, and I am really worried that the left one no longer knows what it is doing right, because many laws are coming here gradually...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u7	To understand that, as a new point, do you want to place it? [[Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u8	Yes, as a new point, as the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you. As far as the housing crisis is concerned, we must realise that housing and rent prices in relation to average wages in many cities have increased quite substantially, leading to enormous pressure on household budgets. This crisis is escalated by the fact that the construction law, which has just spoken about it or has been set up to really increase construction in the Czech Republic, has not yet been approved. Often Czech households also have to deal with very bad things about the household budget. We must realise that in the Czech Republic the ratio of property housing and rental housing is 80: 20, which means 80 per cent of ownership housing, 20 per cent of rental housing. That means 80 percent of people - now I'm going to overdo it, of course not all of them are under mortgage, but really many young families have a mortgage on them, of course huge inflation and energy prices. Those young families really have a lot to do to tighten it up. The dissatisfaction of people who are sinking into poverty, who are worried about the loss of housing, so we need to respond in some way to the government's efforts to help these people in some way. I understand Minister Jurečka that, of course, the support of the mortgage cannot be a social benefit, I understand that, but there must be other alternatives to helping these families. It should be noted that the prices of residential properties according to the Czech Statistical Office increased by 16.6% in the third quarter. There was also an increase in the cost index of real estate costs, more than 17 percent. For example, with regard to published figures last month, 6.2 percent of the building permits were issued less, and I am not even talking about the fact that we actually got into a huge decline in real wages as the Czech Republic, is the highest of all OECD countries, and that we have an interest rate on a mortgage somewhere somewhere around 6 percent today. I understand that I have already mentioned this several times, but I would really like to pay your attention to how it is actually distributed in our housing in the Czech Republic. We have four types of housing. The first is ownership housing, which, of course, is heavily linked to mortgages. Just so you know, the decline is about 60 percent, because the loans are growing, and given that Petr Fiala's government is still providing additional sanctions for you to go into property housing using a mortgage, for example, early mortgage payments are being considered to be new sanctions, or they are already officially talking about increasing property tax in the media space, these are all steps to free ourselves from property housing. Maybe that's a good thing, maybe we should really settle the ratio of ownership and rental housing a little bit more, but there's one big but. Of course, we can support rental housing, the state itself, but the state does not take any steps towards it. I just don't understand how it is possible that the MMR programs, such as the Construction Programme, have stopped, which has been supported by municipalities in order to implement rental housing. The second aspect that needs to be realized, and so I say that the left one doesn't know what the right one is, is that it is increasing by 15 percent of the accommodation on the dorms for students. But college education shouldn't just be for the richest kids in rich families to afford dorm accommodation. Of course, these children will also have to have increased energy costs. And what happens? All of these students will try to move into some apartments that are free to rent on the market, and it is necessary to keep in mind that the flats on the market are simply not enough. And what's not enough is expensive because it doesn't stop. Now, in all of this, let's see that the rails are getting more expensive, which means they're going to go to the market. And in a moment, we're going to discuss the Lex Ukraine, which actually aims at finding a place for Ukrainian refugees to live in the normal housing market. But let us remember that the conditions, as set for Ukrainian refugees, that they will show a housing benefit or a housing contribution only probably with an honest statement, because I can't imagine how the employment office would actually control assets in Ukraine, that is simply absolutely unsolvable, so it will have to be dealt with with with with an honest statement, which, of course, will have some advantage against Czech citizens as such. And once again, all these groups - students will target the housing market, Ukrainian refugees will target the housing market, and I ask where the Čech will target, if we do not even allow them to own housing, we do not support cooperative housing, because cooperative housing was also a program for MMR, so that young people will get the state loan for cooperative participation. Where are the projects we talked about that would help with the construction itself? The fourth group are municipal apartments. Municipal apartments, there it is necessary to realize that in the 1990s the municipalities sold over 600,000 flats and today they actually remain a municipal housing fund, which will cover the social problems of the municipality as such. The municipalities are calling for the fact that even if they had some apartments available - again the MMR program, so that municipalities can reconstruct municipal property, was for refugees only. Why isn't it for everyone? Why isn't it also for Czech citizens? While drawing on this programme, the Minister negotiated a billion, the drawdown is around 200 million, so it is obvious that interest is not just for this narrow group. Let us expand this also for Czech citizens, help the municipalities to reconstruct the housing fund. It is important to remember that Prague has about 30,000 flats, which are 4 percent of the housing fund, but a tenth of the city's managed parts are currently vacant. So let's ask why it's vacant, what's the result? So cities and municipalities need to help rebuild their housing fund. Like I said before, what's not enough, it's expensive. So you don't think that all the time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u9	Colleagues, colleagues, both in the left and right of the hall, I will ask you to listen carefully because this is a change in the agenda of today. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also asked for that peace because I'm really coming to the conclusion, and so that you don't say that we're just criticizing and not putting any ideas on the table, so here are the topics that could be done immediately with housing. First, to discuss multigenerational mortgages, that is to extend the maturity to 40 years with the guarantee of the state. This would actually reduce the payments by about 6,000 a month, which is huge money for a young family. Start actively working with intangible property in the hands of the state. Here I appreciate that there is some revision of this property, so I will just hope that it will not serve for sale, but that it will serve to build new housing for Czech citizens on free land and in state buildings. Split multigenerational houses into separate housing units. We really need to realise that the countryside is more or less based on multigenerational houses. Today, the seniors live there completely alone, and if there really isn't enough money to make separate entrances, separate social facilities, then we could suddenly increase the possibility of living here. Activate the subsidy programme of the Ministry of Regional Development to support interest on loans above 5%. MMR has this program in his drawer. Resume a youth programme for a cooperative share where young people can gain up to 3 to 3.5 million in a cooperative share. It would certainly help young people to go into cooperative housing. Last but not least, activate private capital and create PPP projects, start the construction of higher education colleges or their reconstruction so as to reduce the energy intensity of these buildings and students can afford to live on student dorms. And last but not least, of course, there is a construction law, because what we are going to say to each other should be our motto in the current housing crisis to build, build and build and rebuild once again, or reconstruct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u11	Thank you, too. Another priority right is given to President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, you may be surprised that my colleagues are performing here and have prepared a number of current problems and points, but it is mainly due to the fact that yesterday we could not interpelate. There were 55 interpelations, there were two ministers involved in three interpelations, and that, of course, is the only and simple reason, and how many were the interpellations during this entire term I said here last time. I believe that the Prime Minister will take my request and my appeal to heart and ask the members of the government to go to the interview. So let me propose a new item on today's day and ask for the inclusion as item number 2, because the first point was proposed by my honored colleague, Klára Dostálová, and this point... [[Member Foldyna warns that there is no minister in the Chamber.]] I see. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice-President. Is there a minister here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u13	There's no minister here. As the Minister is not present, I will ask the President of the MPs to ensure the presence of a member of the Government at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So the Minister from the MPSV came.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u14	Thank you, thank you, Mr Vice-President, and the Minister, for returning to the O.R. So I want that point to be called the Dramatic decline in real wages in the Czech Republic, and let me justify it. I propose this as the second point of today's day, and I now justify it. Thirteen months of government under Petr Fiala's baton proved to us that the five-calice had no plan but unfulfilled promises. The Turkish economy Zbyněk Stanjura causes the debt of the Czech Republic to grow at the fastest rate from all countries of the European Union and we have historically the largest increase in debt. This government has completely resigned from effective tax collection, plus tens of billions thanks to inflation, which is record-breaking in the Czech Republic. Czech industry reports absolutely fundamental existential problems. For example, year-on-year retail sales fell by 7.3%. And the citizens? These are increased prices by one of the fastest paces in all EU countries. They have one of the highest electricity and gas prices through purchasing power parity, they don't have enough drugs and five-calices want to raise their taxes. However, I certainly consider the decline in the real wages of our Czech citizens as a fundamental problem that I want to discuss here today. Unfortunately, we all feel that, someone less and someone quite fundamentally. It is an objective truth, and I admit that in recent months we have been watching an extraordinary inflation wave in all the countries of the European Union. I understand the extraordinaryness and complexity of the situation, I also understand the complexity of international policy developments, but the fact remains that this emergency situation must be faced by all European but also most of the world's economies, and it is also true that the Czech Republic has had one of the highest rates of inflation from all countries of the European Union throughout. This Czech inflation in the European context is completely above average and has hit significantly the incomes of our workers. Yes, not only did real wages in the Czech Republic fall fastest in the history of the independent Czech Republic in 2022, but also from all OECD countries, according to OECD data, real wages in the Czech Republic fell the most. It is therefore not possible to make excuses for a complicated situation, because this difficult period is accompanied by almost all OECD countries, and yet the people of other OECD countries did not feel it to the extent that our Czech citizens feel it. According to the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, the decline in real wages in the second and third quarters in 2022 was just below 10 percent. This decline continues every one quarter in the current year. The outlook for 2024 and 2025 talks about a slight growth in real wages of 1.9 percent and 1.4 percent, but I would point out here that even in 2025, the real wage will not reach the level that reached in 2018. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking first of all towards those who supported the valuation of their salaries last year, the wages of most citizens in the Czech Republic will not return to the real level in 2025, which reached in 2018. Colleagues, we've been losing seven years in which not only doesn't increase our citizens' standard of living, but it will even fall. Until now, I've been talking purely about average variables. But price increases that all of us feel do not fall the same way on each of us. In this extraordinary inflation period, price growth is driven by leaping growth in energy and food prices, and these are items within the consumer basket where low-income households feel more expensive than citizens with above-standard incomes. The December inflation figures referred to a 42 percent increase in flour prices, 55 percent increase in milk prices, an increase in egg prices of 92 percent, an increase in sugar prices of 99 percent and, of course, an increase in natural gas prices, which increased by 140 percent, solid fuels by 66 percent and heat and hot water by 29 percent. Perhaps we all understand that when sugar is increased by 99 percent and eggs by 92 percent, this price is much more complicated for citizens with an income of CZK 20,000 than for someone who earns CZK 50,000, because when you earn a lot, you don't even notice whether you pay for eggs of CZK 5 or CZK 6 or CZK 10, it's under your discernment. High-income households have more room for maneuvering in their spending and consumer behavior, but when you are a single-parent, you solve crucially whether you pay for eggs of 5 crowns, 6 crowns or 10 crowns. Czech households had to really switch to an austerity regime last year to a degree that few people remember in this republic. According to data on the decline in retail sales it is estimated that Czech households save extraordinarily. But what is striking is that food sales, real food purchases by households, fell by more than 9 percent year on year. So Czech households are probably switching to buying not only smaller quantities of food, but also to buying food that is cheaper and, of course, often less quality. As a rule, basic consumption in crises is not so significantly reduced, people first reduce purchases of more luxurious goods such as vacations, catering in restaurants and so on. So it is also clear from these figures that the inflation wave has hit a disproportionately lower and middle layer. Inflation in some households may be significantly above 20 percent due to their consumer basket. [[9.30 hours]] At the same time, Petr Fiala's cabinet has many options for helping households. For one thing, I would like to emphasise once again that it is not the solution to send the entire company to ask for benefits in bulk. Benefits are intended to be a solution only for a certain part of society and therefore not to be socially targeted. On the contrary, Petr Fiala's cabinet could use the Institute for minimum and guaranteed wages and at least partly offset the decline in real wages. The increase that occurred did not correspond entirely to the decline in real wages, and in addition, the increase did not concern a large number of professions. Moreover, six out of eight groups did not increase the minimum guaranteed wages at all. There has been a freeze of guaranteed wages for example in ambulances, bus drivers or bricklayers. Unfortunately, what this government does not understand is that work must be paid off. The minimum wage is intended to protect citizens from falling into poverty and, at the same time, to provide incentives for work. Today, however, we are already in a situation where people who work properly are also at risk of poverty. Another possible tool for the impact of the decline in real wage value is to increase the discount on the taxpayer. Of course, this step would give them the relatively highest population groups with below-average income, which even the most need. But, of course, there are more options. However, it is not possible to punish Czech citizens for the inability of the cabinet of Petr Fiala. Therefore, I propose reading this point and I call on the government to look for solutions to help people in situations where real wages in the Czech Republic are falling dramatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u15	Thank you, too. Another priority right - President Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose extraordinary points for today's agenda of the meeting, because the government is ignoring the serious situation in the Czech Republic. First of all, I would propose a point called Extreme Food Price Growth will continue due to the Fialův Government. The SPD's movement promotes action against Purple's expensiveness. Food prices, which recorded rocket growth last year, will continue to increase this year according to expert predictions. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, food cost an average of 27.1 percent in November 2022 more than a year ago at the same time. However, some basic food commodities cost more than twice as much in annual comparison, such as sugar. Most basic foods, flour, milk, potatoes, fats or oils have increased by 50 to 100 percent year on year. In the first months of this year, food prices are forecasted by experts published on iDNES.cz for example. then they are likely to grow quite quickly, because consumer prices usually follow producers' prices and processors' prices with a slight delay, and these increased by 30% year on year in November, especially as a result of an enormous increase in energy prices, which is also due, by the way, to the lack of resolution by the Fialův Government. Energy prices have increased, among other things, as a result of the European Union Green Deal project and the penalty confrontation with Russia, which is clearly supported by the current Fialův Government. The consequences of the EU's Green Deal will deepen in the context of the launch of the so-called new EU agricultural policy, and food prices will continue to rise. The SPD's movement has long called for immediate introduction of measures that would reduce the prices of basic food for Czech citizens, because they are no longer affordable for socially endangered groups and are forcing more and more citizens who have the opportunity to buy cheaper food abroad, especially in Poland. But cheaper food is also in Germany, where they have triple wages. We advocate, above all, a rapid reduction in VAT on foodstuffs after their temporary exemption from this tax, such as the model of neighbouring Poland, or the price regulation of certain basic foods. According to the President of the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, Jan Doležal is also behind the enormous increase in food prices. The Fialův Five Coalition Government has not dealt with this critical situation in the long run and has not dealt with it, although we have the highest VAT on food, that means 15 percent of all surrounding countries. In our view, this is also one of the serious reasons for this government to end, so as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point called Extreme food price growth will continue due to the Fialův Government. As the second item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government wants to owe us enormously to the European Union. I add: let us not let the government indebt our state like Greece. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS wants to indebt the Czech Republic even more when it seriously considers accepting a loan of CZK 100 to 150 billion from the European Commission. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS agrees with this intention. It should be money to finance energy projects and fulfil environmental commitments. The loan should have a maturity of 30 years and would be closely linked to specific conditions. According to the Ministry of Finance, significant monetary risk is an important aspect of the planned loan, which is always associated with loans in foreign currency and resulting effects on the financial stability of Czech public budgets. The Ministry of Finance officials themselves draw attention to this significant monetary risk, but of course Minister Stanjura and the government are both deaf and blind. The SPD's movement does not agree with this further planned high credit mainly because its preparation takes place outside the standard process, state budget rules and without parliamentary scrutiny. We consider it unacceptable, shortly after the approval of the State Budget Act of 2023 with a deficit of CZK 290 billion, to increase this deficit by almost a further 50 per cent. This is an unbelievable gamble of the Fialův Government, which lied before the elections when it promised citizens a reduction in state debt. The Purple Government is leading us on a path similar to Greece, when our state will be totally indebted and totally dependent on the EU and globalist financial institutions. So, as the second item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government wants to owe us enormously to the European Union. As the third point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called the Fialův Government wants to introduce a new totalitarian act of censorship. I would add that not only censorship. The Fialův Government wants to prosecute the government for inconvenient views and information and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, the Office of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior drew up a plan for the so-called fight against misinformation. This plan includes, among other things, the possibility of prosecuting spreaders to the government of uncomfortable political opinions and information, cutting off some opinion opposition websites from advertising and financial support in the order of up to CZK 150 million per year from the state budget, i.e. from the money of all taxpayers, including voters of opposition parties and movements, to the pro-government media - support for pro-government media and political non-profit organizations. In the first half of this year, there should be a law in the framework of this project enabling the government to block selected websites and prosecute criminally so-called dissemination of disinformation without clearly defining what misinformation is and what disinformation is not. Well, the government is gradually specifying it, but outside of this material. [[9.40 hours]] I had to smile, and I already talked about it this week that the government in its desperation - because the five-calice government is dropping preferences, only 20 percent of the citizens have confidence, maybe not even that, but according to the survey it was about 20 percent, so the overwhelming majority of the citizens don't trust the government anymore - so I laughed and I had to laugh this week, that the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan and the Chairman of the STAN movement, at the same time it is so desperate that they put the SPD in some sort of report on extremism, and when I looked at the reasons, and the media took place, so because we criticized the failure of the Fialův government in the second half of the year to resolve the pricelessness, about our position on the war in Ukraine - we want peace and we don't want war - and that we criticized the government that it doesn't solve the energy crisis, and therefore the SPD is in the report on extremism. So, political con artists like Home Secretary Vít Rakušan and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, that's an incredible thing, and here we see what the government imagines under disinformation. This means legitimate political criticism of an absolutely incompetent, incompetent Fialův government, with which 80 percent of citizens no longer agree, so they are still taking advantage of the Ministry of the Interior, this government, the Fialův government, the political struggle against political opponents and uncomfortable opinions! So this is an absolutely incredible situation. Of course, we laughed deeply at the SPD because these desperate screams don't work on our voters, which has already been verified by several elections that our voter is intelligent and knows what to do. That means, this desperate abuse of the Ministry, instead of working for the citizens, you're just using totalitarian undemocratic practices here, so it just demonstrates your political direction, which is anti-democratic, totalitarian, restricting freedom of speech and even legitimate criticism. And, as I say, in other words, the current government intends to build a network of its own propaganda media for all citizens' money and prosecute opposition political views, including the imprisonment of their carriers, because the criminal responsibility in this proposal is. That would be the end of freedom and democracy. On the part of the government of Petr Fiala, ODS, this is an unprecedented attack on freedom of speech, expression and thinking, which has been unprecedented since 1989. It is, without exaggeration, the introduction of totalitarian practices contrary to the democratic character of our state, contrary to the Czech Constitution and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is a part of it and in which, inter alia, in Art. 17 states that censorship is inadmissible. The SPD movement protests loudly against this upcoming government totalitarianism, and we in the SPD will defend freedom and democracy against the current government with all our might and with all our legal democratic means. That is why it is important, and it was important that our presidential candidate was a member of the SPD Jaroslav Bašta, who, of course, has deep experience in the fight against totalitarianism and the fight for democracy and freedom, and in the totalitarian regime he was imprisoned for two and a half years for that very brave struggle. That means, unlike the Fialův Government, we have personalities who have had the worst experience with totalitarianism in the worst sense, and we are really going to stand up loudly against these totalitarian practices that the Fialův Government is doing here, and first of all, it is also the Minister of the Interior and Chairman of STAN Vít Rakušan. So, as the third point today, I propose an extraordinary point called the Fialův Government wants to introduce censorship by totalitarian law. So that's the third point. As the fourth point, I propose a point called - an extraordinary point - Nearly a million Czech seniors already have a problem with insufficient income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood. On top of that, I would add immediately that the SPD is promoting an increase in pensions beyond legal valorisation. Nearly one million Czech seniors already have a problem with insufficient income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood. It is very difficult for them to obtain a social benefit as temporary aid from the state. According to a study by the Invisible to 889 000 Czech citizens, the so-called invisible seniors are among those who are unable to pay their living in the long run, but at the same time fall through a system of state social assistance mainly due to its complexity, difficult accessibility and ininformation from the authorities. Nearly 50,000 seniors are in execution. The number of people in execution in the Czech Republic is rising under the Fialův Government, so it is clearly the responsibility of the government of Petr Fiala. We simply cannot and will not accept this, we in the SPD, we will not accept that the seniors live in undignified conditions and debts after a lifetime of honest work or undergo humiliating procedures for social benefits. According to the SPD, in the case of seniors in the first place, the need for the adoption of a minimum wage law equal to the current minimum wage for all those who have fulfilled the statutory conditions of age and periods of pension insurance, as well as for setting up a fair remuneration for pensions that would not discriminate against low-income seniors. But the members of the Purple Five-calice government have repeatedly blocked our proposals by refusing to discuss them. So, as the fourth item of today's House of Deputies meeting, an extraordinary point for the SPD, I propose a point called Almost one million Czech seniors have a problem with insufficient income and with the payment of the cost of their basic livelihood. As the fifth extraordinary point of today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government gambling with the future of our country and leading it into disaster. On top of that, I would add for the SPD that the average debt for each Čech is CZK 275,000 for the Fialův Government. It's up. The management of the Czech state under the government of the ODS coalition, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates ended last year with a deficit of CZK 360.4 billion. As a result, the total government debt has already increased to CZK 2.895 trillion. The average debt of CZK 275 000 for each Čech. The Purple Government originally planned a budget deficit of CZK 280 billion last year, but it increased it in autumn, despite the fact that revenues of the state budget increased by CZK 137 billion in comparison to 2021 last year due to higher VAT collection. This year, Petr Fiala's government plans to manage a deficit of 295 billion. They're record, astronomical deficits. Reality, however, can be significantly worse, because according to economic experts' estimates, the government will not collect on an extraordinary tax, the so-called windfall tax, imposed on energy, refineries and banks, by far as planned. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS plans to take another loan of up to CZK 150 billion with the European Commission this year. It is a total gamble from the five-calice government with the future of the economy and the social stability of the Czech Republic with all the disastrous consequences imaginable, and the SPD is, of course, rejecting it, so as the fifth extraordinary point of today's SPD meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government is gambling with the future of our country and leading it into disaster. As the sixth point, the sixth extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose an extraordinary point called the Purple Government wants to increase people's taxes and increase water and sewerage, food, beer, medicines, accommodation and catering services, books, newspapers or public transport. And I would add that the government is threatening companies and our households. The Fialův coalition, contrary to their pre-election promises, is going to significantly increase taxes, value added tax rates, VAT, for many types of goods and services, including important items of daily needs for all citizens. According to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS, instead of the two reduced VAT rates to date, i.e. 10 and 15 %, only one reduced rate of 13 or 14 % should apply from next year. This means that those items, which are now at a rate of 10 per cent, are just that water, sewerage, food, draft beer, medicines, and more, so the government automatically wants to make it more expensive for all citizens. [[9.50 hours]] The government is even considering moving some services, such as hairdressing, from a reduced rate to the highest, 21% rate. As a result of the merger of two reduced VAT rates into one, there would be, among other things, an increase in water and sewerage, medicines, food and brewed beer in restaurants, accommodation and catering services, books, newspapers or public transport and so on. Baby needs would also become more expensive, which is really another spit in the face of decent citizens and families with children from the Fialův government. This proposed measure, which is another denial of the pre-election promises of five-police parties, will seriously damage the economic and social situation of Czech households and threaten the existence of many companies, businesses and jobs. The SPD movement fundamentally rejects this repeated government attack on the savings and wallets of Czech citizens. We are categorically opposed to raising taxes to Czech citizens, and we will never support this way of improving the disastrous balance of the state budget. Our way is a significant reduction of the necessary state expenditure, such as the contribution of funds to the European Union or overpriced military purchases, and on the public income side, for example the taxation of dividends paid by multinational corporations from the Czech Republic abroad. And here I would really stress - yesterday I watched the video on purpose and published it on my social networks, as Prime Minister Fiala said on TV a few weeks ago, literally a few weeks ago, that you wouldn't be raising taxes. He lied live. The man lies from morning to evening, he can't see his mouth at all. And now, at the same time, we've pinned it on his statement now a few days ago, when he's already talking about raising taxes on TV live. So this guy, we have such a lying prime minister, I don't believe it. We have a normal unbelievable liar. He says a few weeks ago that taxes won't increase - I deliberately put it on Facebook, as he says on TV, and now he says a few days ago that taxes will be raised and that without that they can't. A dilettante, incompetent, lying, and lying to the entire nation. It's crazy what this guy's doing. If only he hadn't said so, but he's still saying so! Someone probably gave it to him, somebody dictated it to him, somebody always told him, because he doesn't know anything about it, so they always dictate these things to him, and he really stunts them on TV and he doesn't know which one he's beating. As if he didn't see the deficit budgets, as if he didn't see where the savings needed to be made, the unnecessary expenses. Everything here is chopped up by the Fialův government, and this is the result. That is, as I was saying, as the sixth point of today's meeting, as an extraordinary point for the SPD, I propose a point called the Purple Government wants to increase people's taxes and increase water and sewerage, food, beer, medicines, accommodation and catering services, books, newspapers or public transport. As the seventh extraordinary item in today's House of Deputies' meeting, I would like to propose an SPD item called the Fialův Government wants to bring us to war at all costs without Parliament's consent. And I add that the SPD will fight this with all legal means. Prime Minister Petr Fiala, Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, both of the ODS, want to enforce the extension of the government's right to send troops abroad for a maximum of 60 days without Parliament's consent and also the stay of foreign troops in our territory. This extension is intended specifically to cover the possibility of government doing so also in the case of life and health protection, the threat of property values or the security of the Czech Republic, while today it is possible only in the context of peace and rescue operations in natural disasters, so the government of Petr Fiala wants to extend this to virtually any operation. The SPD movement in discussing these changes to the Constitution and constitutional order, the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic in the House proposed their rejection at first reading, but unfortunately, our Members were the only ones who voted in favour of this rejection. ANO Members did not support our motion for a rejection and have evasively expressed a restraining position on the proposal. This constitutional amendment will now be discussed by the House Committees and then passed by the final vote in the House and in the Senate, with the constitutional majority of the legislators in both our parliamentary chambers to adopt it. There is a clear and serious warning: the Fialův Government wants to bring us to war at all costs without Parliament's consent. This is absolutely unacceptable for us in the SPD and we will fight it with all legal means, so I propose as the seventh extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a point called the Fialův Government wants to bring us to war at all costs without Parliament's consent. As the eighth extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called In the Czech Republic, because of the Fialův Government, we currently have the highest electricity prices from all EU Member States, although we produce cheap electricity in a state-controlled company. And now I would like to justify my proposal. In the Czech Republic, after conversion into the so-called purchasing power parity, which is the local income level, we currently have the highest electricity prices from all the Member States of the European Union. This results from the latest data of the HEPI index, written by HEPI, which is a consultancy company VaasaETT from Finland, e-Control from Germany and the Hungarian energy regulator MEKH and which compares energy prices in European countries. While the Czech households came 1 kilowatt hour of electricity at the beginning of December 2022, converted into 68.2 euro cents, Italy one 53.71 eurocents and the Němec paid only 46.6 euro cents for it. Our consumers are forced to pay such high prices despite being fully self-sufficient as a state in the production of cheap electricity, and despite the fact that the Czech Republic represented by the Purple Government has a share of 70 percent in CEZ, which is our largest electricity producer. The current situation has a strong negative impact on the social situation of Czech households, on the functioning of Czech companies and on the very existence of many of them. It is clearly the responsibility of the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS, which also has regulatory instruments, but does not use them to further piss off our citizens and companies and thus to secure additional billion-dollar revenues from the state budget. In our opinion, we should first sell the electricity produced at a low price to our citizens and companies and, in our opinion, trade only with its surpluses abroad. That is the opinion of the SPD, but the Fialův Government does not want to do this and continues to draw huge money from our citizens and companies from their wallets, even though we currently have the highest electricity prices from all EU Member States in the Czech Republic due to the Fialův Government, although we produce cheap electricity in a state-controlled company. By the way, I repeated the name of my point for the President as well. As a ninth point, the extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point under the poverty line because of the Fialův Government, 40 percent of single parents already live. And I add to that for the SPD: the Fialův Government is simply not trying to help them effectively, while supporting unnecessary expenses. According to the results of the PAQ Research research, income poverty is the greatest threat not only to senior citizens, disabled citizens, but also to households, but also to single parents. There are already 40 percent of them below the poverty line, with about 336,000 children now growing up with one parent. Individuals are therefore forced to limit their own life needs only to the minimum necessary and have no financial reserves. Any unexpected expenditure or revenue outages may have fatal consequences for them and their children. It is a sad fact that the Fialův government is not trying to help single parents effectively while supporting unnecessary spending. This is totally unacceptable and it is evidence of the disinterest of the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS of citizens who are forced to raise children under adverse conditions. [[10.00 hours]] The main degree of blame for this situation can be attributed to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL. The five-calice government has made the basic needs of Czech citizens extremely expensive, and it cannot help even the most socially threatened of them, including because of the fact that its incompetent policy has brought the authorities to the brink of collapse the jobs that are in charge of social support and helping people in need. The SPD movement demands the demise of the incompetent ministerial minister Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL - he is also the chairman of the KDU-ČSL - and we also present a solution to the situation of families with children at risk of poverty. This is a combination of reducing their tax burden, reducing housing, energy and food by reducing value added tax and increasing child and family social benefits to decent and working citizens. We have already tabled the relevant bills here in the legislative process, but the problem is that the Fialův Government is constantly blocking or rejecting our proposals, and they are not proposing anything themselves. So as the ninth point, the extraordinary point of today's meeting. I propose to the Chamber of Deputies a point called Below the poverty line because of the Fialův Government, 40 percent of single parents live. [[The MP will remain silent.]] I'll just have a drink. As the tenth extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called From Czech pharmacies more than 130 000 packagings of medicines have been brought abroad, it tells of the inability of Minister Válek from TOP 09 to deal with the lack of medicines. So here's the name of that point, this complete. According to information from the State Institute for Drug Control, only last year more than 130 000 packagings of pharmaceuticals, worth around CZK 66 million from Czech pharmacies, took place illegally. These are mainly medicines for diabetes, asthma, epilepsy, high blood pressure and many other diseases. Inspectors of the drug institute found out during regular checks on the records of prescription drugs within the supply chain. This is one of the main causes of the current lack of drugs and medicines in the Czech Republic. The Director of the State Institute for Drug Control estimates that the total amount of illicit drug treatment may be up to twofold compared to the state of the drug. The Czech Pharmacy Chamber stated in its official statement that in the past, repeatedly - but without response - it offered assistance to the State Institute for Drug Control in detecting illegal practices in conducting drugs abroad and requested it to provide evidence to enable it to intervene against the pharmacies involved in it. The pharmaceutical chamber also criticizes the fact that the amendment of the Act on Medicines has not yet been proposed, which would allow for more effective detection and punishment of illicit drug exporters. The SPD movement agrees with this criticism. This alarming situation tells of, among other things, the total inability of the Ministry of Health, headed by Minister Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09 to manage the resort and address the critical situation in the market for medicines and medicines, and therefore we demand its resignation. So, as the tenth extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point - I will repeat this now, so that the President can check it out in peace - more than 130 000 packaging of medicines have been brought out abroad from Czech pharmacies, which shows the inability of Minister Válek of the TOP 09 to address the lack of medicines. It was longer now, which is why I slowed it down, the name. As the eleventh extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called the Czech Republic is the only EU country due to the Fialův Government that increased its national debt year-on-year last quarter. And I will add: the Fialův Government is simply not a government of experts and manages public finances the worst within the EU, which is clear from this data. So the Czech Republic is the only EU country due to the Fialův Government, which increased its state debt year-on-year in the third quarter last year. According to statistical authority data, which is Eurostat's EU statistical office, the Czech Republic has increased its national debt to 45,2% of GDP. In absolute terms, our government debt has reached CZK 2.98 trillion, with more than half a trillion crowns in the last year alone in the Fialův government - this has to be stressed - rising. At the same time, the average debt of all EU-wide Member States decreased over the reference period. It is clear from these data that the current government of the Czech Republic is not a government of experts and manages public finances the worst within the whole of the European Union. The justification for the rising government debt by conflict in Ukraine therefore does not correspond to reality and it is another lie that Prime Minister Petr Fiala tells. He lies and makes excuses all the time for Ukraine, and we are the worst in the European Union! [[In an elevated voice.]] So there is another way, in all other countries of the European Union it is possible, only here in the Czech Republic it is not possible, of course because of the incompetent Fialův government. I think it's clear from this. So the Czech government debt has increased rapidly despite the fact that the collection of indirect taxes and public budgets by 137 billion crowns increased significantly last year due to high energy, fuel and food prices. And while gross domestic product is growing in most EU Member States, in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Finance expects it to decline by 0.5 percent this year. The Fialův Government is completely failing to manage public finances and is driving the Czech Republic into outstanding debt and dependence on foreign creditors. In the opinion of the SPD, it is necessary to immediately start consolidation of sovereign debt and reducing the public budget deficit. On the way to this, there is a rapid and rapid reduction in the State's necessary expenditure, including payments abroad and overpriced arms contracts, as well as taxation of dividends issued by multinational companies abroad, where this is on average around CZK 300 billion per year. So I will repeat once again, as the eleventh extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called the Czech Republic is the only EU country due to the Fialův Government that increased its national debt year-on-year last quarter. As the twelfth point, the extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the SPD movement I propose a point entitled Number of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic was record last year. I would add: it was 29 235 people, the Syřan prevail and among Ukrajinec smugglers. And we demand permanent control of our state border for the SPD. The foreign police of the Czech Republic revealed 29 235 foreigners during illegal immigration last year, 18 065 more than in 2021. Look at this incredible increase, and it is even more than in 2015 to 2016, i.e. the biggest migration crisis so far. According to information from foreign police of the Czech Republic among illegal immigrants, Syřan clearly prevail with some kind of temporary protection in Turkey and among smugglers are the most Ukrajinec. In the light of these data, we consider the decision of the Czech Government to extend the framework controls, this is a recent decision of the Czech Government, only for another 10 days as completely inadequate and non-systemic. And we say this: the government is giving it 10 extra days, a few extra days, yes, because it is said that the European Union does not allow it. It is crazy completely, the European Union is preventing us from defending ourselves in our own country! And, of course, the Fialův government nods it. And we think - and it is quite obvious - that the sharp external borders of the so-called Schengen area against illegal migration are ineffective, and, moreover, many EU Member States do not even respect migration rules and legislation. So we demand, in the interest of the security of the country and of the Czech citizens, a permanent control of our state border. At the same time, we have long been proposing the adoption of a referendum law, including a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, so that citizens can express themselves on all these issues if they are interested. [[10.10 hours]] Finally, I would like to comment on my proposal on how the government, the Fialův's five-calice government, is trying to push through the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. And here at my show, you can see exactly what's going on with the government. The government is trying to completely silence opposition views. And what's trivial about it is that it's pushing the TOP 09 pages most, which now have preferences of 5 %, KDU-ČSL, which have 3 % preference. And I'll tell you, I've designed 12 special points here, and every citizen who hears it knows that, or most citizens certainly see it as extraordinarily important points. And now you're proposing a change in the Rules of Procedure so that we can propose amendments to the agenda for just five minutes so I can't justify it so I can't name the harm of your government. You want to shut up and censor me and the entire SPD so we can't justify it here. I was material, I went to a specific point, but it took me 40 minutes. And you only want me to be able to talk for 15 minutes, and only twice more so I can get off with priority rights. You're brazen to put in, totally totalitarian to put in, that's just unbelievable, what you dare, in Petr Fiala's government. You are proposing that the Rules of Procedure be amended so that a person with priority rights can only speak twice. That is, the priority right here is for people to know, all ministers of the government of Petr Fiala, that is, 17 people. In addition, all the people in charge of the House have it - the SPD does not have one representative there. Most of the House's leadership is behind the government coalition, so at least five more people, that's over 20. And yet all members of parliament's clubs and all party chairmen have priority rights, which means another 10 people for the government coalition, which means that you have over 30 people. We in the SPD are two who have priority rights - me, the party chairman, and the President of Radim Fiala. So you already have 15 times as much priority rights as we do. And now you're pushing for a change in the Rules of Procedure, and it's Mr Bartošek who's in charge here, I have to say it, this meeting, so you're pushing it so we can only get out twice - those who have priority rights. That means four shows, twice a SPD to shut us up! That's a fair deal for a government five-caliber! It's 30 to two now, but you don't want 30 to two. You want to do it without limit versus four basically. That's really... you guys are normal, don't be mad at me. You're not guys. You're a normal cowardly government that, if you can't do it and people don't trust you anymore - people don't trust you anymore! - so you're just using methods like this. If you're not able to help citizens, you're supposed to put it guyly, not silence the opposition in this way. Let me give you an example of this draft of your Rules of Procedure that is your objective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u17	Is this a motion for a meeting, this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u18	Yes, I'm explaining my proposal here, why I'm suggesting that I set the mirror to your very design, Mr. Bartošek, so that's why I followed up fluently, if you were listening to me - maybe you didn't listen to me - and I said I was talking, I'm still picking up on that last point. I'm very careful not to censor me, because that's where we see the tendency now. I want to tell you what this is all about, what you're suggesting. So maybe you'll be here attacking the SPD, your government, your ministers, your lies and your nonsense, which I've already talked about, we'll be able to perform here with Radim Fiala twice, each twice. Then you will attack the SPD further and we can no longer get off to defend ourselves. And this is just completely unbelievable. It's unbelievable what you're suggesting! That means we're gonna sit here in the benches, watch you lie about us, gossip about us, lie to people, dirty us, and you're gonna suggest that people with priority rights can only perform twice. That means we're only gonna have four shows all day. This is completely unbelievable! So I had a need to say this in the end. Thank you, on the other hand, for allowing me to say so. Well, I have also made a fluent commitment to show that you can't completely interrupt me, but it is necessary, Mr. Vice-President Bartošek, I really warn you about these suggestions of yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u19	Speak to me through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u20	Yes, through you. I know you've been dictated by the government's five-caliber, but you're in charge. And I'm warning you about these amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Once the situation can turn around and it is not good to restrict freedom and democracy. This House here, this is the last place in terms of many citizens, because citizens are afraid to say their political opinions in employment, they are afraid to speak up. It is under your government that they are afraid to speak out, they are afraid to express themselves on social networks - legitimate political views personal, which do not conflict with laws or constitution. And this is the last place where we, as citizens' representatives, can express ourselves, so I'm just calling you to your five-calice government to leave this year's censorship and these totalitarian manners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u21	The Vice-President Karel Havlíček will be next with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u22	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of a point which I have called the threats of increasing the contributions of self-employed workers. Let's hear it. Indeed, the Minister of Finance Stanjura confirms this and quite frankly says: Yes, it is in play. And Prime Minister Fiala claims that the businessmen are retiring with a small penny. Well, that's not entirely new, but the interesting thing is that it's completely, but completely diametrically different rhetoric than the five-calice parties had, specifically in this ODS case, before the election. There, they claimed that they would support the tradesmen. There they claimed that their business environment would be simplified, that taxes would not increase in any way. Now it's exactly the opposite. I understand that businessmen have slightly better conditions in terms of levies. Now we can put it in the balance that they have a much higher degree of uncertainty and so on, but that's nothing new. Let's see what we've done. We were balanced about it, we helped our employees, and at the same time we simplified business for businessmen. How did we help the employees? Well, by canceling the super gross wage, by canceling the scam that's been here for many years, which has been talked about for a long time, but no one has had the courage to do so. We found the courage. We found her at the time of the covid, found her at a time when we felt it was necessary to support the employees, and it paid off despite the fact that there were a number of opponents who claimed that it would have disastrous consequences. At the moment, not only did it help at the time of the covid, but, of course, it also helps in the time of the energy crisis. I believe that the abolition of a supergross wage has helped far more than all possible energy tariffs or non-tariffs and all government promises that have been. I will just point out that the average employee or employee with an average salary has saved CZK 24,000 a year because of this. And let us see how the government has helped or helped or rather does not help ordinary households at present. For God's sake, the super gross wage has been canceled. But at the same time, we also thought about tradesmen - we introduced flat-rates. For years after that, it craved. We did it by paying everything once, which means income tax, social, health. It's a very important thing! We were the first ones to do it. It's all businessmen in one place. The establishment of a business within a few tens of minutes, it was also requested. We created an online office for them at the Ministry of Finance within the so-called My taxes or My taxes are called. We have simplified reports for statistics so that it is not so administratively demanding, and above all we have introduced the concept of family business, family business to have certain elementary benefits. But the most important thing: in times of crisis, we did not let the businessmen fall, we supported them. Do you remember the compensation bonus? 600,000 traders received basic support. Today we're in a time of energy crisis, and look what they've got. They got nothing at all, on the contrary, the conditions are getting worse. Let's look at all the climate measures, different packages and so on, and I'm not talking about emission allowances at all. Their business environment is getting worse. [[10.20 hours]] But at the same time, we introduced an electronic record of sales. Yes, we were the first or one of the first in Europe. The companies got used to it, the environment straightened out. It was a step towards digitization. And it's a good thing we introduced her back then because we followed one thing: we don't raise taxes. We didn't lower their taxes, but we don't raise taxes, we keep collecting taxes. And that goes for everyone - for employees, for entrepreneurs, for businessmen, I think that's fair. And it is a path that leads to the end of the day that we will collect these taxes without increasing their amount in a fundamental way. Thanks to this, several billion crowns were collected. And what does the government say today? The government says we're short of money. Well, I understand that money's missing. We are in a time of crisis, there are expenses, we had it at the time of the covid as well. So why didn't we keep the income from electronic sales records when the vast majority of the unions, associations, and chambers expressed themselves as wanting EET to be maintained when entrepreneurs got used to it when what was actually created is called a fair environment? And the government says today. We're missing the money, so we're gonna raise taxes. And who do we raise them to? Well, we'll raise them to the tradesmen. So, first, we're gonna drive the businessmen into the grey zone by the government shutting down the EET, then stating that she's missing the money, and doing that she's gonna take the money back to the self-employed again by raising taxes. That's grotesque, that's completely absurdistan. Something like that is absolutely unbelievable. So for this reason, we are asking for this point to be discussed so that it can be clearly explained why the tax burden will be raised or why it is considered for self-employed people and why the EET has been abolished to take this completely insane step. Thank you and please put it as the last item today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u23	Thank you. It's a new point proposal, and I'm the last one to write today. Now properly logged in. As the first Mrs Andrea Babišová, Mrs Jana Pastuchová and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present my point today to complement today's programme because yesterday's interventions lacked Minister Válek, and I think that the point I propose is bothering working citizens and, of course, has a great impact on the proposed retirement later. Since last year, we have been anxiously observing and drawing attention to the series of changes that the Ministry of Health has adopted and is further preparing to limit occupational health inspections. This is an already adopted decree effective from January this year, which cancels periodic work medical examinations in the first category of work and for risky professions in the second category. At present, work is being carried out at the Ministry of Health for the abolition of compulsory entrance exams for the purpose of ensuring that a person applying for a job is not included in the work, whose medical fitness does not correspond to the classification of the expected work. These upcoming changes have already been announced by Minister Válek in his speech here at the January meeting, where he justified them as - I quote - a reduction in unnecessary paperwork. In this context, he also mentioned the supposed abolition of health certificates, which are very important especially for work in food establishments. All of these measures, according to the authors of the proposal, should be entirely on a voluntary basis, which, as we all know, means zero on the basis of voluntaryity. In the case of entry checks, it should even be sufficient to give the applicant an honest declaration that he is fit to carry out the work. In this way we can wait for drivers who will have a visual defect, we can look forward to Cardiacs who will work at heights, and other people who come to us from abroad with tuberculosis, and other occupational diseases. In the January session, Mr Farhan, a colleague, drew attention here to the critical situation in the field of sanitary services, where it is assumed that a professional medical study in the field of hygiene work will be completely abolished and that only Master's education should suffice for performance in practice. Is it necessary to ask whether this is the way to increase health prevention? Is this the way? For occupational examinations, this is the prevention of damage to health from work with degrees of accident at work and occupational disease. Moreover, it is also a general protection of public health for the reduction of the health service activity. So I ask, how will these measures contribute to the prevention of the health protection of all social and health consequences of accidents at work and occupational diseases both for individuals and for their families and for the social and economic consequences? Last but not least, I ask the Minister, how, in the context of the now strongly discussed preparation of pension reform with the proposed extension of retirement, do we want to ensure high-quality health services in the area of health prevention in the performance of work, as well as in the staff of older age groups? I propose to open this item for discussion here in the House of Deputies, because the solution to health protection at work concerns all citizens of working age, namely their families and, in fact, the whole society, that is, all of us. Thank you for your attention and understanding of my proposal to include this programme on the item of the meeting. I suggest we put this as the last item in today's negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u25	Thank you. Well, I have in your application that you want it to be the first point for the fixed points... [[Mrs Babiš off the microphone: As a last point.]] As a last point, okay. And let me ask you, is this a House press of 374 or a new point? [[Mrs Babiš off the microphone: I don't know who wrote it, I didn't write it.]] Oh, it's your application, so I assumed you wrote it yourself. Do you have here that it is the House press 374, if that is true? [[Mrs Babiš agrees.]] Okay, thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm using the media, and yesterday I read an article that I think would be worth putting into the agenda of today's meeting, which I'm quite concerned about. We have two members for the Mayors and Independent, so for the rest of you: this article is called the Business of the Interior Minister of Austrian when purchasing five $100 million of rescue cars for material reserves. This article describes the event when the Administration of State Material Reserves launched a competition in the autumn of 2022 for the purchase of five large rescue vehicles. According to the media that printed this, the competition was prepared in advance for the sole interested party. However, two interested parties entered into the contract and were therefore cancelled. I'll just fill in here, there are three papers, it's normally on the media network, and the last paragraph of this article is that the lawyers of the Austrian Ministry of Interior sent this medium a call for the removal of a defective condition on February 8th. According to this letter, buying overpriced vehicles for CZK 100 million is not a faulty condition. The Austrian Ministry's lawyers gave a five-day deadline to remove the article, and since I don't have much time to read here how they suspected it, and that's why they printed it, I suggest you read it in the media. It is quite interesting how these public contracts are published and how they are cancelled again. [[10.30 hours]] So my point for today's program as the last item will be the Public Procurement of Vehicles issued for the State Administration of Material Reserves under the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u27	Thank you. For you as well as for other colleagues: It would be good for you to reconcile what you are writing on the application with what you are then loading on the microphone, because I have rewritten what you had here in the application as the name of the item Orders for purchase of cars for material reserves. You retexted him, so I just want to ask if I can get off the application. Thank you. Today as a new point and as the last point of today's negotiations, I noted. Mrs Taťána Malá will now appear and Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to place a point on the agenda of today's meeting entitled Documents of the Ministry of the Interior and an inaccessible document on disinformation concerning four government documents. The first is a document of the crisis information team from September last year entitled Radicalisation of civil and public administration workers, which I am warning, and I will now quote from this material: "The detection of KRIT, partners at local level and civil society organisations also suggests growing frustration, a tendency to antisystem operators and radicalisation of public and public authorities as a result of the refugee and energy crisis. These people are not radicalized on the basis of deliberately distorted information and tolerance to the Russian Federation, but from frustration with the functioning of the state during the current crisis and from the effects it has on the performance of their work and on the local public." The report also states, and I quote: "This information is based on interviews with experts who have insight into the situation of state and public administration workers. KRIT does not have enough information for the moods in the security forces, however, it can be assumed from anecdotic information that even here it is necessary to address the frustration of burnout and underappreciation." So when I forget the grammar of the quoted text, I would be terribly interested to know where the government is taking this information, on the basis of what information these organizations claim, who conducted the alleged interviews with the experts and what experts they are. In addition, this material gives the following recommendations: "Anonymized mood monitoring in state and public administration. Early identification of persons who can spread antisystemic moods and their involvement in dialogue. Further create and improve internal communication channels that allow two-way communication in the vertical axis. Also actively and empathically collect critical stimuli and consistently avoid bagging reactions." Sounds to me like no one can even mean it. I think people have been snitching on each other here before, and I don't think it was the perfect time, so I would definitely like to make a statement about this - unfortunately, we didn't have the opportunity to interpel last night. The second document, the same organization, the draft document War and the energy crisis, again from September last year. This topic has been identified as a strong communication threat by the KRIT team, and it is a topic that, I quote, "resonates because disinformation has also penetrated seriously trusted media, channels, or actively exploits members of the radical populist part of the political spectrum. " I would like to know which media they are and which channels they are, who they are, and on what basis and what disinformation they are. And now comes the wonderful part, and this is the recommendation of the krit measure: "It is necessary to communicate intensively, to reveal the manipulative techniques of the enemy and to debank, to perform so-called naming and shaming." Yeah, you hear well, naming and shaming, that means you have to name it and then shame it. I don't really have a word for it, and it feels like a bad joke. And third document: Increased transit of migrants through the Czech Republic. I'm very impressed with that, that is, this paragraph that concerns the media. The media is not yet interested in the topic, and I quote from the document: "Media is not yet paying attention to the topic, which gives space to actively shape and shape it, because of the flooding of more important issues." It's - I'm missing it, it's so great written in spelling. "And it can't be expected to push him massively, but it cannot be ruled out that he will be abused by newspapers and television owned by the nearby ANO movement and also by the disinformation scene." This actually stands in the material you can find on the Ministry of the Interior's website. It's just unbelievable. I don't understand how you can publish such a pamphlet, and with spelling errors, but I would really like an explanation. And the last, fourth document is a classified government plan for head-to-head misinformation, which is literally on the conscience of the government's media agent and misinformation. It is supposed to contain, for example, the immediate shut down of websites that the government calls disinformation, the introduction of a crime of spreading disinformation and so on. One point, for example, is planning to release 50 million to support non-profit organisations dealing with the fight against misinformation. Here he should be wondering who's gonna pick them, if you're gonna do it the same way you're gonna do it in an independent journalism fund, that is, just the chosen and chosen ones, or how it's gonna be. Another 100 million should go to media support. [[Time!]] Once again, I wonder who, what and who will determine it. Thank you. So I'm asking for this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u29	You have the first point after the fixed ones - isn't that right, Madame? [[The Member agrees and thanks.]] Thank you, too. It is now logged in - first I will greet you all, colleagues, and I am taking over the proceedings - and now it is Mr Lang's turn to prepare Mr Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u30	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Like my colleagues, I take advantage of today's situation when I place a new item in the programme and would like to include it as the first point after the fixed points entitled What happens in the Aliens' Catcher Balková on Pilsen-North? I'm assigning this because I really wanted to intersect the Home Secretary of Rakušan yesterday, under which the Aliens' Catcher Facility falls, and since he didn't show up, I didn't have anyone to go with, so I withdrew the application and I took advantage of this opportunity, which means I have five minutes against yesterday's two minutes to ask some questions here. What's this about? I happen to be elected Pilsen-severe, which means right behind the region where there is a catch facility for the location of aliens Balková, where this Tuesday there was a very regrettable situation where 13 asylum seekers or 13 migrants who were detained there - all Marokánec - used, there was a mutiny there, and they fled the facility. And since this is really a very serious matter, I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior, and I would like to actually do this again in some context where we say that the security situation in our Republic is getting worse, that we are losing police officers, when they have already fallen below 40,000 police officers, and I consider this to be very serious, because my constituents from that region, where I also happen to live about 20 kilometers in the crow flies, are asking me about it and wanted me to raise it here. The catch facility for the location of foreigners in Balkova was established in 1998 in the former secondary police school building, which previously served as a school in nature. It has served its purpose since, at present - you know - 62 foreigners have been captured there. They're refugees, migrants, they're from different states, mostly North Africa. These are people who didn't just make a normal crossing of the state border without travel documents, where a residence ban can be granted, and that person is released at some time to get back home. The point is that these people have committed some serious action for which they are secured in this facility. It's basically a police prison where these people are waiting to be expelled. [[10.40 hours]] On Tuesday, 13 of these migrants overcame some collateral there. Another interesting thing: let us note that although it belongs to the Ministry of the Interior, there is a civilian security agency hired there, which, according to the number of foreigners secured, has a number of numbers. Since I'm dealing with the area of security, I know that the police that were guarding it left it, which is why the security agency was hired there because of insufficient numbers of foreign police capacity - that's the first mistake. And after what happened. He'll escape into the surrounding woods, where, as I say, I live, 13 migrants, Marokánec, aged 19 to 45. There's a whole range of cabin settlements, please. There are people, our fellow citizens, who live there for permanent stays, they have cabins, they live there all year round, and they were told by the police: Lock yourselves up and be glad that the runner will not run to you. The runner, when he shows up somewhere, wants a car so he can go somewhere else. It is a completely unbearable situation, for which I say, the Minister of the Interior is responsible again, Rakušan, who again, as it is seen, cannot cope with the situation in this area. It's amazing that he's gonna get out of police prison, mutiny is gonna happen, and we're gonna lose 13 migrants. Three SWAT teams were deployed from three counties, two helicopters. This police measure cost perhaps CZK x million compared to having sufficient police capacity there and guarding how we should have guarded it. I myself worked with the foreign police, so in the previous period these things did not happen and did not happen. It's not standard for migrants or refugees to escape from police prison into the surrounding woods. I want to say that it is therefore necessary to look at the situation there, to take action. I will, of course, also be asking the Security Committee about this, but since the Security Committee isn't for three weeks, I think the situation is so serious that I voted for this form to introduce you here. This means, it is not a normal thing, we should look at it and I hope that the Ministry of the Interior will take measures of such a degree that this no longer occurs and that our fellow citizens who live there in the region do not have to worry about their security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Rais is now signed in and Mr Lang will be ready again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u32	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I said yesterday in my interpelations that, given the topicality of the issue I want to talk about, and given the excused absence of the Minister of Education, I will ask for a new point at today's meeting. This point is my modified interpelation to the Minister, and that's what I called it, the contribution, the government's platový policy at universities. The situation in the salaries of higher education workers is ruthless, and especially in human-oriented faculties, where strikes are already being mentioned. I will now briefly analyse the current situation. The total average monthly gross wage of higher education assistants, researchers and assistants is 20 to 36% lower than the average wage wage with higher education in the Czech Republic. The average gross monthly wage of these categories in 2021 represented between 103 and 128 per cent of the average wage sector in the Czech Republic, which is less than the government's commitment to ensure teacher salaries in regional education at 130 per cent of the average gross wage in the Czech Republic. Teachers' wages in higher education thus cease to be competitive even with the salaries of teachers in regional education, as I have said here many times in the intercessions. The rates of higher education workers compared to the average rates of higher education workers in the Czech Republic are even 26 to 41 percent lower. Even the category, which is quite respected, the lecturer at the university, ranges below this national comparison by up to 10 percent. The Council of Higher Education and the Czech Conference of Lecturers also called for the solution of subfinancing, i.e. two of the most important representations at universities. In its report, the Council stated that the median gross monthly salary of an assistant professor at a public university was CZK 43,400 in the first half of last year, which was CZK 2,500 less than in 2021. The median for secondary school teachers, according to the Council of universities, was 47 250 crowns, which was higher than for the assistant professor at the university. Everywhere we hear how the government will support education, research, technology transfer into practice, but the current reality is completely different with regard to pay policy. What has changed in the Ministry of Education's policy in relation to universities? Teachers of humanities and social sciences in universities are considering a strike. It would, inter alia, be to suspend the holding of statesmen and to issue diplomas. The teachers are dissatisfied with their earnings especially at the philosophical faculties of public universities. They had already written a petition, which I believe was signed by some 1,700 signatories today, and called on the government to resolve it. I would really like to know - I think that on this point we should focus on making clear operational steps that lead to an immediate increase in the salaries of university workers, especially humane-oriented faculty workers. I know that the Minister has set up a commission to deal with this problem, but the distance between setting up a commission and changing a particular teacher's tariff is considerable. I therefore wonder what the Ministry of Education is going to do in this process. Then I would still like to talk about it - I think there would be room for us to talk about adjusting the government's programming declaration, in the sense that the relationship between government and university workers should also be defined in this programming declaration, so that it does not just remain at regional school level. I believe that it is appropriate not only to favour the teaching staff of regional schools, but also to devote themselves to non-educators from the school area and, of course, to giving adequate attention to the salary policy of all university employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lang will now appear and prepare Mrs Pastuchová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u34	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. For the second time: because we really didn't have the opportunity to interpel yesterday, I made an interview for the Prime Minister absent. I understand he was in Brussels, but there are some things that need to be said about. As today's second point, I would like to place a point on the fixed points that I have called the omluva of Prime Minister Fiala to the address of the YES 2011 movement for my scandalous remarks. I have already talked about this yesterday, but I really have to get back to it, because the things that sound from the public space from government officials, and especially from the Prime Minister, are simply incredible from my point of view and must be turned against them. The Prime Minister is on a show on CNN Prima News called "The Prime Minister." I watched the show the day before yesterday - I didn't feel at all good about it, it was self-respect again, how excellent everything is, how excellent everything is. And I just wanted to repeat some of the things that were said there, because not everyone had the opportunity to watch the show. This government's assessment is the worst in the last 11 years when certain criteria are being followed. The evaluation of this five-blind, five-wheel government is 3.8, which means it's a better four. This means practically the worst evaluation in the last 11 to 12 years. From the point of view of the popularity of politicians, the Prime Minister at the beginning of his career - I think as Prime Minister of this government - was ranked first, after the winning quotes elections, when you defeated us - you had to stick together in five to defeat one big movement - first. After 13 months of this government, do you know who he is? Again, it's Mr. Andrej Babiš. In second place is Tomio Okamura, in third place is the ending President Zeman, and Prime Minister Fiala is only popular with about 32 percent of the population in fourth place. So wrong again. Other things: Prime Minister Fiala said on this programme: "We do not do populist politics. In the previous eight years, the ANO movement has been doing populist politics for their governments, and especially during the reign of Andrej Babiš." So once again, obsession with the previous Prime Minister, our chairman of the movement. Fiala further stated: "We must act responsibly. Our unpopular steps that are difficult, but people understand and accept them." Probably those 32 percent in terms of his popularity understood and accepted the steps and the other 70 percent did not accept them. [[10.50 hours]] Other things that sound from this public space - and I say that it is really dangerous when the Prime Minister, when he is given such a half-hour space, only one man show, says that the YES movement wants to compete with extremists: "So far, he is only populist, but he is going extremely far. The ANO movement is a danger to contemporary society, it has turned to radical rhetoric" and other things that, for example, are being heard in public space today by some editor of Respekt, Mrs Ivana Svobodová. "Yeah, he's gone too far, he's starting to sweep out the dark corners." Of course, if the Prime Minister expresses himself as he says about the strongest opposition movement, he charges all his minions, all those people who will now bring things up. I am amazed to learn what is happening in the YES movement, what kind of slaves we are, what kind of brainless we are, what kind of people we are, who don't have their own will, when we are controlled by a kind of dark force, a phenomenon called Andrej Babiš, and so on. It's unbelievable what's happening at the moment. My colleague Táňa Malá has already spoken about KRIT, when, in essence, a team was created at the Ministry of the Interior, directly subordinate to the Home Secretary, who gives the right narratives, huh? And the narativs are, for example, the risk of using tactical radioactive weapons by the Russian Federation, the risk of damaging the nuclear power plant in Zaporozhí, war, energy crisis, Putin and hunger. I'm asking you, just from these names, who's haunting the company? Putin and hungry? Threatened by tactical nuclear weapons? Is it the YES movement, or is it the KRIT of the STAN movement under the Ministry of the Interior? In conclusion, I think it will come to this that Mr Benda said that today's House should take place in the spirit of the adoption of laws, members of the ANO movement should not score points. But what are we supposed to do if you don't let us in the meeting? We know, Mr. Benda, how we're supposed to behave. You don't have to lecture us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u35	Thank you for keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pastuchová will now come forward and prepare Mrs Hanzlíková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll repeat myself. If there were an interpelation, we didn't have to load these points right now. Interpolation was without ministers, so now we're going to load points here. Before I begin with my point, which I wrote, I would like to comment on my written interview, which I will now want to include as my point. For other colleagues who may not know, and I was handling it yesterday, the Prime Minister's Head of Secretariat came to see me that the Prime Minister would not be present at the written interviews because he is in Brussels. So I took advantage of the fact that I went to the doctor this morning and apologized properly from this interpelation. It is my fault that I have not read the House's Rules of Procedure, and unfortunately, even though I have been excused and excused by Prime Minister Fiala, this interview I have been waiting for over two months has failed. So, colleagues, if you have an interpelation you've been waiting for for three months, if you break your leg and you can't come to the House to solve this written interpelation and deliver it, you're out of luck for months to come. So I think that, too, we need to deal with this in the Rules of Procedure, because this can really happen to each and every one of us. That is why I would like to - the Prime Minister is not here again, nor is the Minister of Health here who can answer us at that point, and my written interview is Missing security clearances at the Ministry of Health to a level of confidentiality. I have again learned this information from the media because we do not have any other information, and it was said that they do not have long-term security clearance to the degree of confidential government deputy, i.e. political deputy Mr. Dvořáček and Mr. Pavlovic, who operate at the Ministry of Health. Mr Dvořáček joined the Ministry to manage the health part of the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union. It is strange that, in such a significant position, he did not count on the need for security clearance and that he did not ask for it. These security risks are enhanced by concern about possible serious conflicts of interest with Mr Dvořáček, as Mr Dvořáček came to the Ministry after his recent presence in the Association of Innovative Pharmaceutical Industry, which brings together 34 companies that market drugs in the Czech Republic. I asked the Prime Minister with this written interview if he was okay with possible security risks and possible conflict of interests of the Deputy Minister. We're dealing with a conflict of interest over and over again in the ownership of our Chairman, Mr. Babiš, but the fact that someone came in and didn't have security clearance to a level of confidentiality doesn't matter. So since my written interpelation was this way, it's my fault, but I had no idea that if someone was truly excused properly, that the interpelation would not be interrupted, and therefore it would not be at the next meeting, I wanted to include in today's program the missing security clearance of the Deputys to a degree confidential at the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u37	Thank you, Madame. The next one is Mrs Hanzlíková, Mrs Adámková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask for a new point. It is a point of financial threat to social services with an over-regional scope, and I must say that I have been trying to include this point for several times. Yesterday I had him ready for an interview, but since the Minister was not present and that this matter needs to be dealt with quickly, I will ask for an appointment as a point for today's programme. Why am I doing this? They still turn to me for organisations that provide social services with over-regional action, which, thanks to a significant delay in the payment of subsidies, have gotten into big financial problems. For some of them, the current situation is really critical because they have had an extremely difficult last year to deal with the increase in energy prices, fuel prices and other inputs. It is not a small number of these organisations, it is about 110 organisations that provide services to the most vulnerable groups - seniors, people with disabilities, single parents and others who are in adverse social situations. These organisations must now deal with how they will pay the necessary invoices every day, but above all, how they will pay their employees, which, of course, they do not want to lose. Unfortunately, clients of these social services, who are of course concerned about whether their social services, without which they cannot be without them, because sometimes they are 100% dependent on them, will survive this period in quotation marks, whether they will have to fire employees and whether they will maintain the scope of their services, which is of course very important to clients. Sadly, this situation did not arise due to any external circumstances that the Ministry could not influence, but was caused by a systemization that has been implemented since 1. 1. 2023 and it was implemented despite the fact that there were many reservations from Members on the Committee on Social Policy, and even a resolution was adopted in which the VSP expressed its opposition and asked the Minister to suspend the systemisation. We received a statement from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but for me it was very general and it did not explain in any way why the systemization had to intervene so deeply, canceled nine departments, and really, somewhere illogically divided the competence of one department into several others, and, in effect, they are feeling the effects of social services with over-regional action. [[11.00 hours]] The MPSV needs to be able to help them bridge that time until the grant is paid, which is expected sometime in April, perhaps even at the beginning of May. So for these reasons, please include this point and please be the third item in today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs Věra Adámková will now appear and have two applications, so after that first point I will turn your time back on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, and for the helpfulness in the way in which this request is made. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me start with an evergreen that I keep reminding you of, and that is the amendment to the transplant law, the House press 162. These are bone marrow and cell donors that are needed to treat hematooncological and not just these diseases. You can already see from this House Press issue that this is really not news. I'm still trying to turn your attention to sick people, but I can see that in vain. I'd like to borrow a little bonmot from Minister Stanjura who always said, "Don't be shy. I would like to say, do not be ashamed to tell your constituents that you are completely indifferent to them. Don't be ashamed to tell them that you don't care that their children are dying, because then at least it will be true and we'll know where we stand. Allow me a few numbers. Unfortunately, blood disease or blood disease - I understand that they are not all interested - not only affect people old but also children, friends. And I have to tell you, unfortunately, it's very sad when you can't help a patient, any patient, and with a child, it's very difficult for the paramedic. So just so we know - five-year survival in acute leukemia is about under 20 years of 67 percent, which is a good number in medicine, but we have to give appropriate treatment. And that really isn't incantation, we don't really have special tablets, but it's a bone marrow transplant. Just to give you an idea, bone marrow, an anonymous donor's withdrawal, that's a highly moral act. This guy comes in, he's got an invasive exam, and then he goes home. He doesn't know who the bone marrow is. He really has such a high morale. And otherwise, in those transplants, just so you know, two-thirds of these transplants are from unrelated donors. So the idea, when you need this treatment, that you tell your brother, sister, please, she's wrong, she's smiling, she's naive. It just doesn't work that way. We have to go to where there's a match, and they're really two thirds of people, unfortunately, unrelated, you just don't find a suitable donor in the family. To give you an idea, these diseases have a mortality rate of between 15 and 24 years of age of 40 percent. We can, of course, if you look at it with your prism, or that there is no need to do anything, because people die little, as I was also told from the coalition camp, so that there is no need to change the law - that is the top of cynicism, arrogance and I have no other words at all. So please, nicely, at the age of 15 to 24 he survives 60 percent in the right treatment. But if you read it from the other side, 40 percent of people can't help, and that's a disaster. Between 25 and 64 years of age, mortality rates are 60 percent and 65 years of age, please, five-year survival rates are only 5 percent of patients. So in this situation we have in the registers - of course we also have a Czech register, we also have international registers - but it is really looking sometimes for months. It's not like I'm gonna look at the register, and I have an offer. I don't. And it's very sad, very burdensome, and these people are dying for nothing. So if you want to sign up for it, don't put this point on it, tell me to stop saying you don't care about these people. Well, I can't deal with it, but at least I'll know how to deal with it. Otherwise, just so you know, I still have a little bit: the first bone marrow transplant in the adult was carried out in the Czech Republic in 1976 in Hradec Králové, with the child in 1989 in Motol, so the possibility is actually short. Take that acylpirin we serve for 140 years. So please, be so kind, look at these sick people at peace, let's give them a better chance, because those volunteer donors here are handicapped, because if they need incapacity to work after their bone marrow is removed, they don't have paid it fully like all the other volunteer donors, that incompetence. So that's my first point. I ask for the inclusion of Parliament's Press 162 as the second point after today's fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u41	Yes, thank you, so I'm turning off my time and I'm releasing your second application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u42	Thank you again, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a second request for inclusion, which I made yesterday by interpolating to the Prime Minister, who is bound elsewhere, and because of course the answer will come to me within 30 days and then we will work with it, and it is a matter very topical that has come out of the field. This is the case - it is a regional issue only for some schools, but it is all the more serious. In some primary schools, please, basic, at the second degree it happened that in recent months there is such an influx of children not speaking Czech, please, or from third countries, and it is not only Ukraine, so they are also specifically the most Vietnamese persons, and it is more than half of the children in that class. Those classes have more than 30 persons, of which half of those children do not speak Czech. Those kids aren't stupid, those kids just showed up, and their parents are so responsible, they're sending them to school so soon. And now imagine - I'm talking about a specific school, a total of 800 pupils who have enough space, so she could accept these kids, she doesn't have so many teachers anymore, but they are very much said enthusiast and so on, the director must simply be a magician in my opinion, so they go to this class where half the class doesn't understand a word, and it turns out that they are not classified in the Czech language for a while and then they get, of course, a five and fail - absolutely unnecessary, those children aren't stupid, those children would learn, we just have to make room there, which means, I don't know, it's already a matter that the government is dealing with, but also paradoxically, the Ministry of Health, because from these schools are reporting that there is an increased illness of children, those Czech, headaches and the like, and also an increased illness of teachers, which is especially a question of vocalitis, because they can't just yell it, which subplifies there. Well, we didn't help each other. And I would very much like to hear the Government's proposal as a whole, because it concerns the Ministry of Education, Health, possibly work and social affairs, because if those children or those people are incompetent afterwards, how does he want to deal with these problems in these schools? We can say that probably nothing - I hope they don't tell me that, because that certainly wouldn't lead to good teaching in that elementary school. I suppose, therefore, when all these schools will be increased by some budget so that they can accept other teachers, because, as I said here yesterday, in this class, he would only like to teach kamikaze. Kids don't understand him, he has at least one assistant with one of our Czech children and, of course, a minority of Czech children are wondering what the others are talking about. So I'm asking for this to be the first point after the fixed points. It's a long title, I wrote it exactly. It is therefore the idea of government on the assurance of teaching in primary school in schools, where in some classes there are more than 50 percent of children not speaking Czech. Please, not foreigners - a foreigner who speaks Czech, is not counted here. They're children who don't speak Czech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. So once again, the government's report on the provision of teaching at primary schools in classes with great... [[Ms Adámková off the microphone.]] If you can do that again on the microphone, please, Madame, can you please have the exact name on the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u44	Sure, it's long. Report of government on security instruction in primary school, where in classes is more than 50 percent children not speaking Czech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u45	Thanks for the clarification, too. Mr Síla will now appear, Mrs Dražilová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a point that is very much troubling to most of our population, and it is an unbearably long waiting period for professional examinations in health care. The value of human life in the Czech Republic is different according to the place of residence. If anyone thinks it's nonsense, I'm afraid so. In each corner of the Republic, insurance companies pay a different price for the exact same care. The most expensive are the Pražan and the cheapest can be treated by a man in the Zlín Region and Karlovy Vary Region. For the same care, health professionals will be paid 30% less in the Karlovy Vary Region than in Prague. We all pay the same for health insurance. No one understands this system, everyone knows about it, and nobody does anything about it. The rules for reimbursement of health performance are not fair. It is a historically ill-established system of the Ministry for the influence of governments - unfortunately - ODS. Significant differences in health care payments have an impact on the availability, quality and frequency of healthcare. The Fialův Government is suffocating with the words of Minister Válek that the availability of health care for citizens of the Czech Republic will not fall, and the availability of health services is already unbearably long, and the government cannot solve it yet, and we have added about half a million Ukrainian insured people. I would like to mention, in particular, the availability of a complementary examination. Let me give you a specific example of an MRI. Why is the ordering time so long for an MRI in the regions? First of all, it's a lack of medical personnel, especially radiologists, who can subtract and describe the MRI. Secondly, it's setting up a check-up by hospital health insurance companies versus ambulance. It's done so - you non-medical people don't know - that magnetic resonance imaging in hospital facilities, in institutions, is paid for from a flat-rate hospital that gets from health insurance companies. It works in practice so that a patient who needs or requires an MRI examination, even if hospitalized in internal surgery or any other department of the hospital, is not examined by an MRI during hospitalization. He is released to outpatient care, only from the ambulance is he sent or ordered for an MRI and then needs to be re-accepted to the hospital for a solution such as an operation due to an MRI finding. Unfortunately, it is arranged because the MRI is covered in outpatient care by performance, that is, they will do an examination and they will get it paid from health insurance companies, while the chiefs in hospitals are motivated by their directors not to investigate these patients unnecessarily, because it is an expensive examination. The examination, like an MRI, costs 5,000 crowns. That's why they're not investigating, and they're putting it in an ambulance. Another reason why this is the case is that there are unnecessary large payments for individual examinations. It's a very lucrative business project. Magnetic resonance costs approximately 36 million crowns. If I take a loan, buy an MRI, get contracts from insurance companies, I have it in four years with all the costs paid. The MRI has a lifetime of eight years, so I've made 36 million. The last reason is bad distribution of instrument equipment. Maybe two MRIs are in Bruntál and Třinec and Bruntál, or the whole district of Bruntál, only one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u47	So we're just gonna repeat your point, unbearable waiting times for medical examinations. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u48	Yes, and at the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Lenka Dražilová will now appear, Mrs Mádlová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor. Before I grant it to you, I apologize, I will read you apologies: Richard Brabec apologizes all day - health reasons, Flek Josef all day - working reasons, Lacina Jan from 12 o'clock - working reasons, Táňa Malá from 11 o'clock - family reasons, Maříková Karla from 13 o'clock - working reasons, Vích Radovan from 9.30 - health reasons and Minister Kupka all day on account of foreign travel. Now I'm letting you have your five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on another delicate topic of Czech politics and that is pension reform. The recent proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, according to which the retirement age would have increased from 2034 to 68 years, only confirmed this. This would include the Czech Republic among countries with the highest pension age in the European Union. He's probably not just gonna stay at raising the retirement age. The ratio of pension value to average income will probably also decrease. Two years into the '70s, seniors will probably have to forget their well-deserved rest, they'll have to forget their grandkids' fun. From Monday to Friday they will go to work and on the weekend they will recover from a demanding week of work. By the age of 68, most people are not really able to live a completely normal productive life. Elders also have a harder time finding work. We would become a country with an unparalleled highest retirement age from all over Europe. We all know the Francouz are on strike right now so they don't have to retire when they're 64 years old. What would an increase in retirement age mean for 68 years? Staff would have been damaged several times. As flights increase, it is difficult to maintain employment, and many people would be at risk of spending the last years of their extended active life on sick or unemployed conditions. In both cases, of course, the state register would have greatly spared them, as the average sickness and average unemployment benefits are, of course, lower than the old-age pension. After all, this is why, in other countries too, it is pushing for seniors to work towards an increasingly advanced age, even in a situation where more and more young people are out of work. Another consequence would be a lower amount of old-age pensions, as income from the last years that have not actually been worked out would have been reflected in their amount. At this point, I would like to remind Minister Rakušan's speech, who literally said in his speech in the House on January 11, 2022: We look forward to a substantive debate with a substantive opposition, and it will certainly start in the next few minutes. So what's the experience of the discussion? Pension reform is planned without any consultation with the opposition, even though it is a decision that is significantly beyond the functioning period of this government. Unless, of course, this government wants to constitutionally anchor its leading role. It should therefore also consult its actions. It has always been said that pension reform, precisely because of its importance, must be approved across the political spectrum. [[11.20 hours]] I repeat, we are prepared to be a constructive opposition, but no one is dealing with us on pension reform. I therefore ask for this important point to be placed at today's House meeting as the second point after the already firmly placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u51	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Ivana Mádlová is now signed in and Mrs Ožanová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u52	Hello, Madam President, dear colleagues. I have a point for inclusion today because there was no interpellation yesterday, when I wanted to ask Minister Válek about sensitive patient data, and this is what I have to call my point. The point is that I have been approached not only by colleagues of health professionals but also by families or acquaintances, that perhaps there is an amendment to the Health Services Act, where it will be interfered with medical documentation, and this is the treatment of medical data or health data of our patients. I consider this to be a very serious problem, because this amendment has not yet been introduced to the Health Committee, although it appears from the press that this is a relatively revolutionary intervention in the treatment of sensitive data, in relation to the access of authorised persons to such data. I believe that this should, at least, take place on the Health Committee. But unfortunately, we have been finding out in some way recently that Minister Válek is not present on issues relating to the Health Department. Currently, interventions are being made in relatively large health laws, such as the Health Services Act or the Lex of Ukraine, it is a law on non-medical services, these are quite large laws, and so far none of these laws or any of these upcoming amendments have been discussed on the Health Committee. This amendment to the Health Services Act, which concerns these sensitive data, is criticized by virtually everyone. I confess that I do not know what is in it, I have not seen this novel, I draw only from the media, and therefore I consider it very important that this point be opened. The Ministry of Health changes the rules for accessing patient documentation. So far, only certain people, certain health professionals, can browse cards. These are, for example, persons close to the Civil Code or persons designated by the patient. They are health professionals under applicable laws, judicial experts, persons appointed by the administrative authority to produce or review an opinion. They are health professionals for health assessment for social security purposes, or they are the Ombudsman, or they are also students of the medical fields, but only to the extent necessary. These people are supposed to change, they are supposed to expand, and in the way that basically all professional organizations, lawyers who specialize in medical law or patient organizations, seem to be able to view sensitive data from various offices and companies without the patient's consent. This amendment of the law, which should even apply from January next year, is counting on this. The management of the resort claims that its writing was forced by the owners of medical chains, whether regional or private, or state or private, or both of these resorts. The reasons for the Ministry of Health for the amendment are - and I quote: "A number of hospitals and ambulances are now part of larger holding companies, which are managed from one central office. Administrative staff in this headquarters need to communicate with insurance companies and to provide them with care. However, this complicates their current legislation, according to which these workers are not entitled to consult the patient's medical documentation. Only employees of a particular hospital may do so," explains the spokesperson of the resort Ondřej Jakob. Therefore, the Ministry has allegedly decided to accommodate and access the patient's date to open. But they came across huge resistance, the Ministry of Health came across huge resistance from every corner. They're all saying the same thing: in the cards of the patients, anyone can dig through it, even without control. We absolutely disagree with this extension, it is written so that it could absolutely look into the patient cards of each class. [[President: Time, Madame.]] [[Time.]] I therefore consider it important to include this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u53	So you're suggesting that he be ranked fourth by firm rank. [[Mrs Madlová agrees.]] Thank you. And now, Mrs Ožanová will come forward, and Mr Jáč is signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u54	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying which point I want to include so that the President does not have to address this in conclusion. I suggest we add a new point, and that's his solid assignment for today, 12 hours. Item name: Digitalisation procedures, analysis of the digital economy index and society. Why am I asking for this point? Because I read the report on the development of the digital economy index and society for the Czech Republic. Since 2014, the European Commission has been monitoring the progress of Member States in the digital field and has published annual reports on the digital economy and society index, the DESI abbreviation. The reports cover country profiles each year, helping Member States to identify the areas in which they need priority measures and thematic chapters containing an analysis of key areas of digital policy at EU level. The DESI index shall be ranked by Member States according to the level of digitisation and shall analyse their relative progress over the last five years in the light of their previous situation. According to the results of the digital economy and society index, DESI, in 2022, the Czech Republic ranks 19th place among the 27 Member States of the European Union and has made it worse by one place compared to 2021. The new government took office in December 2021 and presented digital transformation as an important task of a four-year work programme. For the first time since 2007, a member of the government, Vice-President of the Government, Ivan Bartoš, has been directly responsible for digitization, particularly in the field of public services. The government continues to implement the Digital Czech Republic Strategy adopted in 2018 and updated in 2020. Another update of the new cabinet is planned in 2022. The report is very extensive, I will not quote more from it. Let us face it, evaluates various criteria, but the clear result is, although we have a directly responsible minister for digitization, so the Czech Republic has offended among the 27 EU Member States compared to 2021. So much for the digitalization result. However, I assume that the Minister might have a different opinion on this issue, so I propose today a point of the Digitalisation Procedures, an analysis of the digital economy index and society. Thank you for your attention and I hope that this item will be included.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mr Jáč will now appear and prepare Mrs Lesenská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u56	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in my contribution, which I would like to include as a point in today's negotiations, but I will call it precisely, to devote myself to the difficult situation of teachers in universities, faculties of social and humanities, which is already very trivial at this time. Dissatisfaction with the level of salary increases, so that teachers of these faculties not only sign petitions with a number of about 2,000 signatures, but leave or start to think about leaving for lower education institutions, that is, secondary schools or even primary schools, or also thinking about going to commercial or other spheres of administrative or administrative. [[11.30 hours]] However, it is also fair to point out that the current Minister of Education has already established a working group. It should probably start to act somewhere in mid-February, but its options are very - and its powers - very limited in relation to public universities, because these public universities from the statute of their functioning already form wage policy and level and distribution themselves. The situation in these fields - humanities and socio-economic faculties - is all the more critical that current high inflation has essentially exposed their weak real wage, purchasing power, which for some professors, for example at Charles University in Prague reaches around CZK 32, only 32,000, when the average salary in the Czech Republic in the last quarter of 2022, the employee's salary was around CZK 40,000. What can I say? Such income in the Prague metropolis no longer allows for a decent life and forces educators to leave the university sphere at different levels, as I have already mentioned, or to go to regional universities and faculties where the relative proportion of wages and cost of living is still more favourable. What's the next step? Although it has been suggested, or I have said that the ministerial commission or the ministry itself has almost no real tools to address this situation, because this has, say, historically been set up in the restructuring of our national education, but the situation is even more complicated, that these faculties have the lowest, or basic, coefficient of intensity to ensure the teaching, but some technical and technological faculties achieve it in a multiple of 3 of the standard which the Ministry of Education or, if we want, the state budget supplies the university with a source of finance among others. Here, perhaps, there is a solution to redistribute these funds through the coefficients that have, in some way, occurred historically in decades before when it was considered that so-called humanities could somehow be realized using pencils, paper, maximize the addition of a laptop. However, there could also be temporary subsidies for these fields, as it has already done in the past and has proven to revitalize some pedagogical and medical disciplines or faculties, or, of course, to consider some other transitional bonification if, let's say, it is sufficient to meet these requirements. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Yes, and I'll say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u57	We're only asking nicely if you could load the name of the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u58	So - I was almost finished anyway - so, Madam Vice-President, that point would be called Raising the wages of humanities teachers in Czech universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u59	Thank you. Mrs Lesenská will now appear and Mr Kobza will be prepared. And if I may recommend and ask for the name of the point at the beginning, then we will not exceed the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for a point. How the government is fighting against the current cost. As former Regional Director of the Labour Office, I had the opportunity to monitor and learn the concerns and needs of our citizens in the long term. These experiences have confirmed to me that our greatest task is to help citizens in difficult times and to find solutions to help them overcome their financial concerns. Unfortunately, the e-mails I received show that the government's proposed solutions are not effective enough and citizens are not convinced that the government is offering real solutions for the present cost. Consumer price growth accelerated in January. Annual inflation in the first month of this year rose to 17.5 percent of December 15,8. Prices affected the end of the austerity tariff in January, and only this item is worth more than half the increase in prices. It is our duty as Members to discuss these issues and to provide citizens with answers to their questions and concerns. It is our responsibility to ensure that people have security and stability, and that the government offers solutions that are effective and will help them overcome this crisis. I therefore propose a new point on the 52nd meeting on the agenda, entitled How the government is fighting against the current costume. It is an undisputed fact that the members of the government constantly refer to increased inflation under previous governments as Babišův's expensiveness, after all, even in their electoral slogans. However, the reality is that current inflation is high and undoubtedly affecting all of us's lives. People are worried about their existence, as the cost of basic life needs is constantly rising. It leads to a lack of funds and stress. The gems of the current government, perhaps Fialův's preciousness, have leveled Babišův's playful balance, even surpassed it. As the Chamber of Deputies, we need to discuss how the government is fighting against this and what steps it is taking to resolve this situation. It would certainly make all the people very calm. I am not convinced that the government has taken all possible measures to improve and whether the measures it has taken are effective. As a Member who is interested in social issues, I therefore want to call on the Government to debate. I want to hear how the government is planning to address the current cost and what Members can do to help citizens who are concerned about their financial future. It is essential that we, as citizens' representatives, pay attention to this critical situation in order to join us in combating the current cost and ensure that our citizens have financial security and stability. It is our duty to look for solutions to these problems that will help citizens overcome this unprecedented situation. Therefore, I ask you to support this point, and I propose that it be classified as a fixed item. But since I proposed this before the proposal made by Mr Michálek, I would like to change this and ask for the inclusion of this point for the points proposed by Mr Michálek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u61	Yes, thank you, Madame. Mr Kobza, who has two applications, will now appear, so we will proceed as before. And Mrs Knechtová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the sad anniversary of March 15th, the anniversary of the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the German army is approaching, and I would like to remind you that for a long time, several years, our proposal under House press number 16 has been hanging in the system for the amendment of the Act on State Holidays, on other holidays and on important days of working peace. Our proposal contains two points. Firstly, we propose to include 15 March as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries among the important days of the Czech Republic. Secondly, we propose to change the sign of an important day on 18 June, from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of the heroes of the resistance against the German occupation of the Czech countries. That second point led us to discover that when you ask someone on the street if they know what the second resistance was, most of the answers are negative, so that's why we consider this clarification important. March 15, 1939 is the beginning of the most tragic stage in modern history. The Czech State lost the last remnants of any state sovereignty that day. Then followed his direct German military occupation and a six-year period of general and targeted terror, killing citizens of the Czech countries of today's Czech Republic, which clearly had genocidal features and genocidal character. According to the results of the research of the historians of the Military Central Archive in Prague, the number of victims of the German Nazi regime in Czechoslovakia is roughly 343 000 people throughout the Czechoslovak state, but the number of people who died after World War II is not included in that number because of abuse, persecution, the consequences of imprisonment in concentration camps and prisons, the consequences of so-called total deployment and the like, so that the actual number of actual victims of this occupation is significantly higher and will certainly not be far from one million people. In the Czech Republic, the number of direct victims is at least 122 000. During the existence of the so-called German Protectorate, at least 8,000 citizens were executed in our country, some 70,000 Czech Žid died in concentration and extermination camps, and another 3,500 died in forced labor in Germany. The victims of German Nazi terror became entire villages, of course the most famous ones are Lidice and Ležáky. Most important, it must be pointed out that only in the domestic resistance against the German occupation died in 100,000 Čech. That is why it must be clearly recalled on 15 March, not only as a memorial to these victims, but rather that the law on state holidays already - and rightly so - includes among the Czech important days on 27 June as the Memorial Day of the victims of the Communist regime, as well as on 21 August as the Memorial Day of the victims of the invasion and the subsequent occupation of the Warsaw Treaty army, where the number of victims was lower in order than in the case of the German occupation. In this context, in this law and in view of respect for the historical truth, and especially in view of respect for the victims of the German occupation in the Czech countries and the survivors of them, this day should certainly be held, March 15, as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries. Another reason for the proposed change is the ongoing and unacceptable attempt to rewrite history, especially the attempt to relativize the guilt for World War II, the attempt to relativize the damage done by the German regime in Czechoslovakia during this war and in front of it and on Czech and Czech people. There is also a strange campaign going on in public space, trying to convince us and, in particular, our young generation that the German occupation of the Czech countries was just one of the historical episodes that affected our state and which was basically nothing special. I think the dead don't think so. Czech citizens, soldiers and civilians, have demonstrated extraordinary heroism and courage in the foreign armies, on the war fronts, in various anti-Nazi armies, but mainly in the domestic resistance, where the situation was by far the hardest, and this is the reason for the second amendment proposed by us, which is the renaming of the important day of June 18 from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of Heroes. [[Time.]] resistance against the German occupation of Czech countries. That was the first suggestion. Now, if you don't mind, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u63	Yes, that was the House press on public holidays, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u64	Yes, it's the House Press 16.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u65	16...and now I'm turning on your time squared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u66	And I'd like to place him as the second point after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u67	Yes, well, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another migration wave is rising again, which even goes beyond the migration waves that we have had here, and with it, of course, there is another risk of terrorism, another danger that arises for our society from the very point of view of illegal migration, from the point of view of illegal migrants. After all, events from the last time there was a mass escape from the detention facility illustrate this very strongly. I would therefore propose to include House Press No. 13 on the agenda for today's meeting, which is a proposal from the SPD Group to amend Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. Specifically, it is a ban on the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies, not only a movement, as stated in the law now, which is our debt towards eliminating the shortcomings of the applicable form and regulation of the law, which does not address the issue of public dissemination of ideologies promoting hatred for groups of persons on the basis of their race, sex, faith, nationality or other common characteristics. It is therefore time to correct this lack and to add two words to the term movement - "or ideology." It is far from just now known hateful and hostile ideologies that already exist in reality, but it is also such ideologies that are known less, which we may not yet know practically, ideologies that can be imported to us from the outside in the future, or even such ideologies that can only arise in the future, whether they are hidden under different other isms. Let us therefore give our police, prosecutors and judges an effective tool to deal with the spread of hate ideologies now and in the future. Let us give a clear signal to such spreaders that they will come across the law here and that they will be dealt with as such. It is our commitment to citizens and, in view of the fact that we will take care of the security of this country and its citizens, because if any ideology calls for hatred, we must keep an eye on it, and we must have an effective instrument that will enable us to confront it in time. So far, it is not just selective prosecution of Islam, as we are sometimes encouraged, however much Islam belongs to these hateful and dangerous ideologies, it is just like Nazism and any other ideology calling for violence and hatred against certain groups of people. Let us remember here one regulation that extends to all Islamic teachings: not adapting to the environment or the host country, not integrating, believing that Muslims are superior to infidels and young believers, so-called cafes. There is also an obligation to Islamise non-Islamic countries, to dominate them using all the tools and means, which in their eyes is a weakness of democracy. There is a difference between the take-off and beautiful words of some so-called Islamologists about the contribution of Islam to Europe's culture and the cruel reality that we see not only in the Middle East and North Africa, in Islamic countries torn apart by civil wars, but also in Western Europe. It is now in the grip of the endless situation between brutal violence and terror caused by mass illegal Islamic migration and political correctness. Let us learn from the mistakes of our neighbors and not protect those who want to destroy us. Do you think we are really safe here in the Czech boiler? We Čech already have our victims of Islamic terrorists. They were real people, our fellow citizens, they had lives, families, dreams. I'd like to remind you of their names. Petr Kořán, murdered by a Muslim attacker on July 24, 2005 in the Egyptian Sharm al-Shaichu. Ivo Žďárek, diplomat and ambassador, murdered in a terrorist attack by Islamists in Islamabad on 20 September 2008. Pavel Hrůza, murdered by the Islamic State in Libya, the exact date is unknown, it was in 2016. Naďa Čižmárová, murdered by an Islamic terrorist in an attack in Berlin on December 19, 2016. Lenka Civínová, stabbed to death by an Islamic terrorist on July 14, 2017 in Hurghada, Egypt. These people were only murdered because they were in the wrong place at the wrong time when the terrorist thought it was a good idea to go murder some unbelievers. [[Time.]] I therefore ask that this point be ranked as the third point after the fixed points. [[- Yes.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u69	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Knechtová will now appear and prepare Mrs Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u70	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Minister, I propose the inclusion of a new item entitled Paying workers in social services - as the first point after the fixed points. You may not know it, but the differences are really big. For example, a caretaker who works for seniors will have an average of CZK 3,660 less on her payroll than her colleague, who does the same for an organization established by the county, state or city. Even greater differences are in homes for seniors and other residential services, where the average reward varies by 5,000 crowns. Similarly, field social workers who help homeless people or those who provide counseling in civil counseling are involved. The biggest differences are in nurse payouts without specialization. On average, those who work in non-state aiding organisations receive almost CZK 20,000 a month less than their co-workers in the contribution organisations. I must confess that it is absolutely incomprehensible to me how the state can tolerate this and have a double standard of remuneration for workers working in the social segment. While the state, county or city-based social services have a certain meaning in terms of funding, because their budgets are shielded, there is a desperate shortage of funds in the non-state sector for workers' payouts and, at the same time, for the necessary costs associated with the operation of social facilities. And this is not about a small number of workers. Only five of the largest non-state providers are roughly 12 000 employees who will help 190,000 clients across the Czech Republic in a year. What is needed to finance? Equalise the differences in remuneration so that workers from assisting organisations do not go to other sectors for more dignified earnings. Specialists or workers with great experience are very difficult to replace. I am concerned with promoting equal conditions in the remuneration of social workers, with which social workers not only from my region turn to me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u71	Thank you, Madame. I'm just going to repeat, please, nicely, the remuneration of workers in social services, as the first point after the fixed posts, okay? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková will now appear. It's logged in, but it's not here. Mr Novák is also registered, and I do not see him here either. Mr Pražák will also be prepared and Mr Konvoral will be Rozvoral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u72	Good noon, Minister, colleagues. I won't be long. I would like to load a point called the Information of the Minister of Agriculture on the margin verification procedure. It's been about a week since we learned that there were NGOs visiting Prime Minister Fiala and the Minister who agreed that a meeting would be called for the Minister of Agriculture to deal with margins for farmers, food professionals and chains. So I'd like to ask you, how will this continue or how will it be investigated? Because if I borrow information from yesterday from one social media contribution, for example, one unnamed blue-and-white yogurt stands in South Bohemia in a small shop of 13 crowns and in Prague in a chain of 19 crowns, then I find the information that a representative of the Trade and Tourism Union has released about the fact that disproportionate margins are made by farmers and food farmers a bit comical. I would therefore like to know how the Minister will proceed. I'm all for checking it out. Everyone has to have a margin to work in some way, but certainly not in the x-sevenfold amount, as unfortunately some products or foods do. That's why I'd like some of these things to be said to us. Unfortunately, yesterday, the Minister was excused at the interceptions, and he is not here today either, which means that the point is probably not going to come up anyway, even if it was approved, but I would like to put him as the third point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Rozvoral is now signed in and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I propose to put item 33, House press 24, SPD Act on Pension Insurance as the third point of today's negotiations. Now allow me to justify my proposal. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The basis and essence of our proposal is the introduction of a minimum guaranteed old-age pension for all persons who are entitled to the creation and receipt of an old-age pension, i.e. for citizens who have fulfilled the relevant legal conditions, which is the retirement age and period of pension insurance. We propose the amount of this minimum old-age pension at the rate of minimum wage. The proposed design of this minimum old-age pension also respects other conditions for granting separate old-age pensions and combined pensions. The legislation for calculating and granting the amount of pensions thus remains unaffected because of the smooth administrative integration of the Institute of Minimum Pensions into our pension system. The relatively important provision of the proposal is that the granting of a minimum old-age pension will take place on an individual basis only on the basis of the assessment of the insured person's application, and therefore the employees of the Czech Social Security Administration will not be unduly overwhelmed by the obligation to recalculate thousands of individual pensions and their constituencies. In view of the fact that the minimum old-age pension is conceived as an institute whose primary objective is to ensure a decent standard of living for its beneficiaries, the possibility of granting it is limited by the insured's property conditions, such as rent income and sublease income, various types of rents and dividends, etc. Such matters would be dealt with and supported by an honest declaration by the applicant for a minimum pension and would also be reviewed in case of doubt by the Regional Branch of the Labour Office. The fight for a significant increase in the lowest pensions from which we cannot live dignifiedly is one of the main long-term priorities of the SPD. This is a step which can no longer be put up with a long delay because the life situation of our low-income seniors, even with regard to the current context of enormously rising energy prices, food and other basic needs of life, is absolutely unbearable. In this context, the introduction of a minimum pension is clearly a better and more systemic solution than referring to seniors by a new government to apply for a housing allowance, which is a lengthy and administratively extremely demanding one, regardless of the fact that many low-income seniors living in, for example, cooperative apartments or outside of Prague will not reach this contribution, or they do not know this possibility at all, which, according to serious studies, concerns about 300,000 people, especially seniors. It is totally unacceptable for us that tens of thousands of seniors, after a lifetime of hard work, are forced to live from income far below the poverty line and fall into debt traps and executions, or to undergo debilitating and often humiliating Martyrium claims for social benefits several times a year. Build old-age pensioners who have worked for society for several decades and who have often had broken health, into the situation of social welfare applicants, figuratively and literally in one row with those who have not worked at all, is also unethical, immoral and inhumane. Citizens who have worked honestly for our country all their lives deserve to experience dignified old age. [[12.00 hours]] The introduction of a minimum pension institute will also undoubtedly reduce the costs and demands of the social system itself. It is an institute that has long been a standard part of the pension systems of many European countries. On the other hand, the current setting of the Czech pension system is unfair, system flawed and does not guarantee the possibility of a dignified life of retirement age, rather the opposite. Let's change it while we still have time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u75	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear and she has two applications. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u76	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to take two points. First point called Czech Post. I would like to get concrete information on this - and I think that all Members in this Chamber of Deputies should want this - what will happen to the Czech Post in the future. Mr. Home Secretary, when he took over the Czech Post, he declared to all of us how everything would change, how everything would be perfectly okay, and today 25,000 employees don't know what would happen to them, what the future would be. Did he tell us how he's gonna change the board members, how great the experts are gonna be, and where did we get to? We've gotten there, the delivery guys are being released. I'm yesterday - and I've been pointing it out all week - that I visited the city of Ash on Monday. I stress that it is a city with about 13,000 inhabitants. It is a large city that falls within the so-called network of municipalities with extended scope, and in this city all the delivery women were given notice and the post office was driven there by cars from Cheb. I'm sure it wouldn't matter if the citizens got the mail in their mailboxes, but they don't get it. So there are such cases that the sports section loses the subsidy because they don't get the shipment, the city gets the shipments back because the mail is simply not properly delivered. The Minister of the Interior was unable to select the new director of the Czech Post in seven months, so the Czech Post is without management. The current director will end on 28 February and on 1 March will be the director of the Czech Post's deputy Mr. Miroslav Štěpán. So we don't know what the future will be, where it will be going, if it will be privatized, if there is any money in it, but only what we know is that the branches of the Czech Post and delivery companies, which work there for some twenty, thirty years, are cancelled, and I dare say, not for a large wage, they are released and the mail is not delivered to people. On the basis of my contribution, I was approached by other carriers from all corners of the Czech Republic, such as the Pardubice Region, I have marked, Heřmanův Městec, that there will also be the release of all carriers on 31 March. Is this the right way to go? I think there is no way that the Minister of the Interior is responsible for this and he should make it clear what the next course of the Czech Post will be. And I think that even the uncertainty about those people, 25,000 employees, isn't fair at all, because they practically don't know what's going to happen. I also observe that a number of Czech Post buildings are being sold. For example, now I learn that in Karlovy Vary, a beautiful main post office building, which is in the center, near Thermal, maybe it is also to be sold. There are information that many objects are being sold. We don't have any detailed information on this at all. So I think that this point is important, it should be included and it should be addressed immediately by whoever is responsible, whoever has the responsibility, whoever here said that everything will be flooded with the sun, everything will be great, and we have here a year and three months since the Home Secretary is in the government, and not only have we not moved anywhere, but we have fallen a few rungs down. Can you imagine... I remember when I was on the inside that some branches were supposed to be closing, or maybe some matrices, and we're letting the delivery girls go. Okay, I might still be able to talk about it if it was in a small village, but in a town that is a community with an extended scope of about 13,000 people, I'm going to release all the delivery girls? I don't think such a move is completely meaningful, and I'm surprised it happened. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you, so that's the point of the Czech Post. Thank you very much. The second point and my second application touches on the subject that I have been opening here several times, and we still haven't been able to place it. It really amazes me that the government coalitions and government MPs do not want to know how to deal with the lack of medicine, so I would like and ask for the second point: lack of medicine, concrete steps to address the Minister of Health. The Minister of Health will come here and say first: I got 40,000 Nurofens, then it's 400,000 Nurofens, then it's 500,000 Nurofens, and then he'll write me 50 moms that they were in pharmacies and they didn't get Nurofen. So I don't know anything about it. And most importantly, when I listened very carefully to the Minister of Health on Tuesday, I didn't know how he would handle it. When I told him that Nurofen wasn't here in August, or I said it to the media, no one took that into account, and the Minister may have started to deal with the situation at the end of the year. But it's too late. The fact that he didn't come to the round table was a shock to me, because if representatives come there - the chief of pharmaceutical companies, the Czech Medical Chamber, the General Health Insurance Company, he still says to us here at the microphone: I thank you, I want to communicate with you, I want to deal with it, and then to such an important round table, which has called together capacities, I dare say, Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák, Dr Mašek, and there was really that representation, and he doesn't come there, the head of the State Institute of Drug Control, two key persons, and we learn there that perhaps someone told her not to go there, well, I don't know what to think about it at all. Before I came here now to say that I want to place a key and important point, if you don't mind that there aren't drugs in pharmacies and hospitals, it really bothers me, and I think it should bother this whole House, because we are responsible, or the minister is responsible for providing enough medicine for citizens of the Czech Republic, so I just learned that the minister - today it came out - is thinking about the Finnish way and production itself. Did anybody hear this when the minister was here on Tuesday? It's the first time I've heard it. This shows that the Minister of Health does not know how to deal with this. He's always making excuses that it's all over Europe. But people go to Germany to get their medicine, they go to Poland, so that's definitely not true. Even here on Tuesday he said that it is also in America and Australia, there is no medicine everywhere, I say again that it has to be dealt with at European level. I keep saying the same thing, who had the Presidency? The Presidency had the Czech Republic, and the Minister of Health did not call for a shortage of drugs. Of course, today he's operating on the drugs that we keep saying about children, fever, Nurofen, antibiotics and so on, but please go to the pharmacy, there's no medication for eye inflammation. Maybe the year isn't Endiaron, I could continue with other medications that I've got all of them marked as people write to me. [[12.10 hours]] I'll do one thing. I'm gonna ask the people who are texting me today that they can't get the drugs to go straight to the Minister of Health. If that point isn't listed today, I'll do it. I'll e-mail people to the Minister of Health not to call the pharmacies, but to write to whoever's responsible and who's supposed to be responsible, and that's the Minister of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u77	Thank you, Madame. Mr Nacher is now registered with the written application for the agenda. [[He's not present.]] So his application is forfeit, and the last enrollment so far, Mr.Foldyna, is not. We have used up written applications for the agenda so far. I just want to ask if everyone who applied took advantage of that, did we forget about anyone because it was a large amount? If not, we will move on to the vote on individual proposals. I'll rejoin so my colleagues can arrive. We'll proceed as it was loaded. First... Yes, I've logged the check-out request. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-enter your ID cards. The number of Members has stabilized and we will be the first to vote on Mr Michálek's proposal to include a new item in lex Ukraine, House Press 374. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 83, 142 Members were voted in, 141 voted in. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on whether to include it as the first item, as Mr Michálek proposes, so that the vote on the inclusion of this item will now be the first item in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 84, 148 Members voted in favour. This proposal has been approved. We will also vote on another proposal by Mr Michálek, namely the inclusion of the Investment Company point, the third reading - or this is not a new point, there is only a pre-position for today's negotiations as a second point. Investment companies, House press 238, paragraph 86, today the second item of the hearing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 85, 149 Members voted in favour, 148 voted in favour, there was no one against it. This proposal has also been approved. We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Dostálová to include the issue of housing in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting such a point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 86, 149 Members voted in favour of 70, against 72. This proposal has not been approved. The next item proposed by President Schillerová is the inclusion of a new Dramatic drop in real wages in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting such a point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 87, 149 Members voted in favour of 70, against 79. The motion was not accepted. The next item is the proposal by President Okamura to include a new item in Extreme Food Price Growth due to the Fialův Government. I'm asking, who's up for a point like that? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 88, 149 Members voted in favour of 69, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal for a point is also from President Okamura, and it is a point of the Fialův Government to be extremely indebted in the EU. [[He wants to]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting such a point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 89, 149 Members voted in favour of 20, against 78. The motion was not accepted. President Okamura also proposes the inclusion of the Fialův Government point to introduce totalitarian censorship by a new totalitarian law. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 90, 149 Members voted in favour of 65, against 77. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new point Nearly a million seniors already have problems with inadequate income and cost reimbursement. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 91, 149 Members voted in favour of 68, against 77. The motion was not accepted. The next item is the proposal by President Okamura to place a point on Fialův's government gamble with the future and lead it into disaster. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 92, 150 Members voted in favour of 68, against 77. The motion was denied. The next proposal is the proposal by President Okamura to include the Fialův Government to increase people's taxes, food, increase pharmaceuticals, beer, water and sewerage. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting such a point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against this point? Voting number 93, 150 Members voted in favour of 69, against 77. The motion was denied. [[12.20 hours]] Another proposal from President Okamura's pen is a proposal which reads: the Fialův Government wants to bring us to war at all costs, even without Parliament's consent. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 94, 150 Members have been voted in favour, 15, against 78. The motion was denied. The next proposal is the proposal by President Okamura to include a new item entitled In the Czech Republic, we have the most expensive electricity from all over the EU, although we are collecting cheap electricity from a state-controlled company. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Let him press... [[Dissenting opinions from the bench on the title.]] I declare this vote (number 95) confusing. I'm gonna read the title of the proposal one more time. This is a point called In the Czech Republic we have the most expensive electricity throughout the EU, although we produce cheap electricity by a state-controlled company. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman? That's great. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 96, 150 Members voted in favour of 68, against 75. The motion was denied. We are continuing with another motion by President Okamura to place a new point, and now, under the poverty line, 40 percent of the singles live because of the Fialův Government. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 97, 150 Members voted in favour of 69, against 77. The motion was denied. The next item is the proposal by President Okamura to include a new item entitled From Czech pharmacies more than 130 000 packs of drugs were carried out abroad by the inability of Minister Válek. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the inclusion of this title? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 98, 150 Members voted in favour of 16, against 72. The motion was denied. The next item is the proposal for the inclusion of a new item by President Okamura, the Czech Republic, is the only EU country that has increased its debt year-on-year thanks to the Fialův Government. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of putting such a point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The 99 vote was signed by 150 MEPs, 69 votes in favour, 77 votes. The motion was denied. The last proposal from President Okamura's pen is a proposal to include a new point entitled Number of illegal migrants in the Czech Republic was extraordinary last year. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 100, 150 Members have been voted in favour, 61 voting against 75. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček on the inclusion of a new item entitled Threat of higher taxation of traders. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 101 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 71, against 76. The motion was denied. The next proposal is from Mrs Babišová. This is already an existing point, so here we will vote on the point of Protection of the Health of Employees, House Press 374, and it is the inclusion of the point as already classified points, or today's final point. I am opening the vote and I ask, who is 374 in favour of such inclusion of the House's press? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 102 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of the vote 71, against 74. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal to include a new item entitled Purchase of cars for tangible reserves. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of including such a new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 103 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 76. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by Mrs Taťána Malá to include a new item in the Documents of the Ministry of the Interior and an inaccessible document to misinformation. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 104 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of the vote 71, against 78. The motion was denied. Another proposal is Mr Lang's proposal to include a new item entitled What is going on at the Aliens' Catcher's Balk on Pilsen-North? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 105 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 72, against 74. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Rais's proposal to include a new item entitled Government platový Policy at universities. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 106 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of the vote 71, against 74. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Lang's proposal to include a new item entitled The Apology of Prime Minister Fiala to the address of the ANO movement for his scandalous remarks. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 107 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of the vote 71, against 76. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Pastuchová's proposal to include a new item entitled Missing security clearances at the Ministry of Health at the level of 'confidential'. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this new point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 108 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of the vote 71, against 74. The motion was denied. [[12.30 hours]] The next proposal is Mrs Hanzlíková's proposal to include a new item entitled The Financial Threat to Social Services with Over-regional Scope. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 109 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 71. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Adámková's proposal for a fixed inclusion of the Transplant Act. This is Parliament's Press 162, paragraph 53. Here we are voting only to change the order, or to make a firm classification as the second point of today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 110 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 72, against 73. The motion was denied. Another proposal by Mrs Adámková is a proposal for the inclusion of a new point entitled Report by the Government on security instruction in primary school, where there is in class more than 50 percent of children not speaking Czech. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 111 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 74. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by the Member of the Force to include a new item entitled Unbearable waiting time for medical examinations. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 112 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 68, against 73. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Dražilová's proposal to include a new item entitled Information on the upcoming pension reform. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 113 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 72, against 73. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Mádlová's proposal to include a new point entitled Sensitive patient data. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 114 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 73. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Ožanová's proposal to include a new point entitled Digitalisation Procedures, an analysis of the digital economy index and society. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 115 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 62, against 69. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Jáč's proposal to include a new point Increasing the wages of humanities teachers in Czech universities. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 116 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 66. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by Mrs Lesenská to include a new point entitled How is the government fighting against the current cost? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 117 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 74. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Kobza's proposal for a solid inclusion of the House press 16 on public holidays, namely that this item be placed as the second item in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 118, 149 Members voted in favour, 24 against 76. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mr Kobza's proposal for a firm inclusion of the House's press 13, the Forest Code, as the third point after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 119 was signed by 150 Members, voting 18, against 75. The motion was denied. The next proposal is Mrs Knechtová's proposal to include a new item entitled Paying workers in social services. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 120 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 67. The motion was denied. Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Pražák to include a new point entitled Information of the Ministry of Agriculture - the margin of chains. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 121 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 74. The motion was denied. The next proposal is the proposal by Rozvoral on the solid inclusion of the House press 24, paragraph 33, of the Pension Insurance Act, as a third point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 122, 150 Members voted in favour of 70, against 73. The motion was not accepted. [[12.40 hours]] The next proposal is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal to include a new point called Czech Post. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The vote with order number 123 was signed by 150 Members, in favour of 70, against 72. The motion was denied. Another and final proposal is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal to include a new point entitled Lack of Drugs, concrete steps to address the Minister of Health. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 124, 150 Members voted in favour of 70, against 68. The motion was denied. I would like to ask if we voted on all the proposals that you, my fellow Members and colleagues, have proposed this morning? Haven't we forgotten anyone? Mr. MP... This is your vote, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I voted 121 - I have "stayed" at high school, I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-10-ps2021-052-04-000-000.u79	Yes, that's for the log. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'm going to load two apologies. Mr Dvořák apologises from 11:45 a.m. on health grounds and Mr Foldyna apologises from 11:31 a.m. on work grounds. This has dealt with the proposals for changing the programme and we should now start discussing item 111. It's about
