ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 311/4/ - Returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as the House's 311/5 press. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Roman Kraus among us and I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek speak for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-002-002.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the bill is the transposition into the Czech legal system of Directive 2020/2184 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2020 on the quality of water intended for human consumption. The adoption of the draft law will ensure an increase in the safety of drinking water supplied, since the assessment and follow-up of risks throughout the chain, this is from the river basin, through reception and so on, enables the focus to be on the relevant risks and the adoption of appropriate measures to protect public health effectively. As part of the discussion of the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, the provisions implementing the transposition of the directive changed the date of application from 13 January to 15 January following the publication of this law, as the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council entered into force in January this year and the European Commission has already initiated proceedings against the Czech Republic. This proposal was then referred to the Senate for discussion, where it was discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Health Committee, which agreed on the need for several amendments to the proposal, and then on the Senate plenary, this proposal was supported. I have already said at the Senate plenary that I agree with the amendments adopted and I support them, as these are amendments to the proposal that benefit. I hope that you will share this view, and I therefore ask you to support this proposal with your vote today, in the version in which it was referred back to the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate, in the wording of the final Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister, and now I ask Senator Roman Kraus to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-002-002.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, as has already been mentioned, this draft law No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, was discussed in the Committee of Health as a guarantee and in the Committee of Constitutional and Legal Law and subsequently at the 11th meeting 10. 5. was discussed in plenary. Following the debate, there was a gradual vote on the amendments that arose both from the committees and from one that was tabled in the general debate. The vote took place in eight parts and, as he himself said, the Minister gave a favourable opinion on all the amendments approved. And now for the individual amendments you have before you. The amendments in points 1 and 2 are essentially legislative technical adaptations. In point 3, the noise reduction shall be at the lowest possible level in cases where compliance with the hygiene limit cannot be achieved. Thus, the new adjustment refrains from the timelessness and limitedness of the time-limited operation of excessive noise and vibration levels. However, I just want to remind you that already in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, which has been tabled an amendment, the obligation of regional sanitation stations to inform the municipal authorities concerned of the initiation of proceedings in an application for an exemption from noise limits is clearly enshrined here. Moreover, as I have already said, the purpose of the new adaptation is therefore to reduce noise to the lowest possible level in cases where compliance with the hygiene limit cannot be achieved, but in addition, the public health authority is competent to review this authorisation at any time by official authority, for example on the basis of new scientific and technical knowledge in the field of noise reduction. So that's going to be point 3. Another point - 4, he extends the expertise of doctors who can inoculate, whether vaccinations regular, extraordinary, special or on request, and extends to the field of hygiene and epidemiology, meaning, potentially, about 300 other doctors who can inoculate, especially in the event of a mass occurrence of any infectious diseases, and thus the number of places where they can be vaccinated, to the State Health Institute and other health institutes. In point 5, this is more of a technical detail when antigenic formulation of vaccines was always announced until 28 February, but only the year when it could start to vaccinate, so it shifts this term to the previous one, until 31 December, based on how the antigenic composition of these vaccines will be determined by the National Immunisation Commission. Points 7 and 8 of the provisions of the Public Health Insurance Act relate to vaccination, and simply, the windows are expanding in time, when it is possible to inoculate both against meningococcal infections, pneumococcal infections plus HPV virus, which means prevention of cervical cancer, so that in the first, that means prevention of cervical cancer, this window is expanding by two years, in meningococcal cancer by one year. It's all in agreement with scientific knowledge, which, of course, is available. So this is roughly a summary of the amendments that went through the Senate, and in the vote from 59 Senators present 52, it was in favour and 1 against. [[Senators; and]] I therefore ask you to approve this bill returned to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments to the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-002-002.u5	Thank you, Senator. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Michaela Šebelová, want to comment on the Senate resolution? No, thank you. So am I opening up a debate and asking if anyone is joining the debate? I don't see anyone. If no one signs up for the debate, then I am done with the debate. I ask for final words - the Minister is not interested, neither is the Senator. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I'm gonna sing. I see an application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait until the number of entries is settled. In the meantime, I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and amending certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 311/4, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 311/5.' The number of entries has stabilized. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 118, 145 Members and Members signed up for 145 against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. [[16.40 hours]] And now we'd like to proceed to a point of discussion.
