ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 251/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and other related laws /house print 401/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, and I will ask the Minister to take the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to present or justify a draft law or amendment to the Regional Development Support Act, as amended, and other related laws. This bill responds to the unexpected, and I would stress the unexpected judicial interpretation of the transitional provision of Law No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets adopted in connection with the abolition of regional cohesion councils. This transitional provision provided for the procedure to be followed in cases of pending appeals by beneficiaries of subsidies against payment notices issued for breach of budgetary discipline pursuant to Act No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets. The Supreme Administrative Court surprisingly ruled that the decision of the Ministry of Finance, which was the decision to withdraw the beneficiaries of the subsidies, should not be defended by the Ministry of Finance in the event of an action brought before the court, but by the Board of Appeal. Moreover, if this decision of the Ministry of Finance is annulled by the court and the matter is returned to further proceedings, it is not for the Ministry of Finance to re-decision the same thing, but for the Board of Appeal. The Court came to the interpretation despite the fact that this procedure was never the intention of the legislature, and despite the fact that the delegation of this expert agenda to the Board of Appeal lacks any legitimate reason in these cases. So the aim of this bill is to ensure that the Ministry of Finance can continue to defend its own decision even in any subsequent legal action against this decision by the Ministry of Finance, and further that the Ministry of Finance can re-decide the matter when this decision is annulled by the court and returned for further proceedings. In order to remedy this adverse situation, it is proposed in a key transitional provision to Law No. 250/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, explicitly state that, in the event of an action against the decision of the Ministry of Finance, the defendant is the Ministry of Finance and that the Ministry of Finance will re-decide if his decision is annulled by the court. However, the proposal also includes transitional provisions on the basis of which the Ministry of Finance will enter into all judicial and administrative proceedings in which the application and participation of the Board of Appeal have already been transferred to the Board of Appeal until the entry into force of this Act. I would like to propose, on behalf of the Government, to the Chamber of Deputies, that the bill be approved in the first reading in accordance with Section 90 (2) of the Act. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[12.20 hours]] I just want to remind you that we have a similar proposal for the Klára Dostálová and Alena Schillerová law, a House press 355, which, however, lacks its own transitional provisions against this government proposal, and also there are not reflected changes adopted following the inter-revisional commentary procedure carried out in the case of the government bill. That was the main reason why we took the problem with our own bill that we would still have to rewrite the original proposal, the MP, completely. There's no competition for prestige, who's gonna do it first. I believe that there is a consensus and that this together we can correct the truly unexpected procedure of the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. The rapporteur was intended for the first reading of Mrs Marie Pošarová, but since the Member is excused, I have information that the rapporteur is proposed by Mr Ladislav Okleštěk as chairman of the committee, but we must vote at first reading on the amendment of the rapporteur, so I will have my colleagues come from the lobby. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading. In the meantime, I will reload my apologies: Mr Krejza Karel apologizes for the whole day for health reasons and Mr Tomio Okamura from 12.30 to 13.30 for work reasons. For incoming colleagues in the hall - we are voting to change the rapporteur for first reading. Just a moment, please. We are voting on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading and proposed by Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 164 Members and Members signed in for 121, against no one. The motion was accepted. I therefore ask the rapporteur Ladislav Oklešťek to take the floor as rapporteur for first reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I'll take the stand for my colleague Pošarová and read her news report so she won't be deprived of it, since she's worked so hard with it. Ladies and gentlemen, House Press 401 presents a bill amending Act No. 251/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 248/2000 Sb. on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and other related laws. It is a government proposal that was sent to Members as House press number 401 on 7. 3. 2023. This press also contains a proposal to discuss the amendment so that the House can agree with it in the first reading according to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., which is the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is, in principle, the same proposal by Mrs Klára Dostálová and Mr Alena Schillerová, who was sent to Members as House press number 355 on 15. 12. 2022. The Government has sent its opinion, which has been circulated in turn to Members 13. 1. 2023, which was neutral to the Parliamentary press 355. From this point of view, I quote: "The Government finds the draft law to be rational, as it contributes to the fulfilment of one of the fundamental principles of administrative management, namely the achievement of its speed and economy, nevertheless points out that the chosen solution, when transitional provisions are amended to the amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, contained in Act No. 255/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development and other related laws, is a solution from a legislative and technical point of view non-standard and problematic, because it may undermine the legal certainty of the addressees of the relevant legal standard and raise doubts about its interpretation by interfering with an already effective and applied regulation ensuring continuity of the legal environment in the transition from the present to the new legislation. In this context, the Government points out that for the reasons set out above, the adjustment of the transitional provisions after their entry into force should not be affected, and, exceptionally, the adjustment contained in the applicable but still ineffective transitional provisions can then be amended. In the Government's view, it should be pointed out that the proposed legislation does not address the procedure in cases where the transitional provision, now supplemented by the proposal, is already being applied in practice and in the case of the payment for breach of budgetary discipline before the court, is already being handled by the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, as it clearly does not provide for such a case, which the institution will be passively legitimised after the application of the proposed legislation in the proceedings already initiated before the court by the institution, and at the same time does not address the question of how the court would proceed in a situation where, following the effectiveness of the proposed amendment, another body and further management of such judicial proceedings should be passively legitimated." That's the end of the quote. I am now getting back to the Parliament's Press 401. The Organizing Committee recommends discussing the bill 8. 3. 2023 by order 137. He identified Ms Marie Pošarová as rapporteur, following the change that we have now made, Ladislav Oklešťek, and proposed the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. The content of the proposal itself, the House press... Madam President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u5	Yes, I can see it. Colleagues, colleagues, please be quiet. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u6	It is our common objective to approve this proposal. On the content of the proposal itself: Parliament's press 401 corrects the issues raised by the House's press 355, as my previous speaker mentioned here, so I am mentioning after all. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the powers of the Ministry of Finance are maintained even in any subsequent lawsuit proceedings against the decision of the Ministry of Finance and the continuity of the decision of the Ministry of Finance in cases where this decision is annulled by the court and returned for further proceedings. In view of the absence of any other redress mechanisms, such as the filing of a constitutional complaint, it is proposed that it be explicitly inserted in the key transitional provision that, if an action is brought against the abovementioned decision by the Ministry of Finance, the defendant is the Ministry of Finance, including in any subsequent complaint. It is also proposed to add to the transitional provision in question that if the court cancels the decision of the Ministry of Finance and returns it to further proceedings, the Ministry of Finance will complete the procedure. Although from a legislative technical point of view it is a non-standard solution, it is not an excluded solution, since the Government's legislative rules provide that transitional provisions are amended as a rule and can therefore be amended in certain cases. Last but not least, in the transitional provision in question, the authority of the official head of the Ministry of Finance to order the review of the decision of the Ministry of Finance on the basis of a proposal from the already appointed commission and the power of the Ministry of Finance to carry out the decision as the tax administrator, which decided in the case at the last instance, is specified. [[12.30 hours]] With regard to the question of how this will be handled in judicial proceedings in which the passive legitimacy of the Ministry of Finance has already passed on to the Financial Administration authorities due to the above unforeseen interpretation of the Supreme Administrative Court, it can be stated that this issue will be dealt with by means of separate transitional provisions, which, in order to rule out any doubts and for reasons of legal certainty, explicitly provide that the Ministry of Finance will enter into the judicial proceedings in which the defendant's position has been exercised so far by the Board of Appeal, including any follow-up proceedings on the effectiveness of this law by decision of the Ministry of Finance - pardon, the Act on Appeals. It can also be stated that if the court has already annulled the decision of the Ministry of Finance by the date of entry into force of this law and returned it to the defendant for further proceedings, the appeal procedure or other procedures will also be completed by the Ministry of Finance. Last but not least, the transitional provisions also remember the situation in which the competent authority of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic issued its own decision following the annulment of the original decision of the Ministry of Finance, but against which the action was brought. In all these cases, the Ministry of Finance will exercise its competence and participation. In view of the need for an urgent solution to the problem described, it is proposed to establish the effectiveness of the law as soon as possible, since the matter cannot be delayed and the later effectiveness would be linked to the undesirable extension of the current situation, in which a decision other than the one issued by it is defended before the court. As I have already described, it is proposed that this House press be discussed and approved at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-003-023.u7	I, too, thank you, rapporteur, and open a general debate in which I have no one to report to. I'm looking to see if anyone's checking in from the scene? I see no one, I end the general debate. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution, and I will go to the foyer for my colleagues. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Parliaments of the Press 401 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' And once again, before my colleagues arrive, I will write apologies: Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes at 13:00 for work reasons. So just one more moment of patience, please. We are voting on the motion for a resolution that we will be discussing press 401 at first reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 41, registered 168 Members, for 130, against no-one. The motion was accepted. I therefore launch a detailed debate and again I do not see anyone enrolled in the detailed debate. I am therefore ending the debate in detail. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 251/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House's Press 401. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 42, 169 Members and Members registered, for 138, against no one. The motion was accepted. Thank you. And now I'm opening point number
