ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-001-148.u1	148. Draft timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 in the Chamber of Deputies and its bodies and on the proposal for its commandments to committees, including the commandments of its chapters and their relations with state funds / House Document 2497/ The House document submitted contains the budget committee resolution No 198 of its 26th meeting of 12 April 2023. This House document will be presented by the President of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Josef Bernard, whom I ask to take the floor, also made a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, but before I give him the floor, I again ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-001-148.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I come up with a purely technical matter, with a proposal for a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2022 in the Chamber of Deputies and its bodies and a proposal for its commandments to committees, including the commandments of its chapters and their relations with state funds. The Committee on Budgets discussed this motion for a resolution at its last meeting last week and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution, which I must now read: "The Chamber of Deputies sets a timetable for the discussion of the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for the year 2022 and its chapters including the relationship of the State Budget to the budgets of state funds in 2022 as follows: I. the Government will present the State Final Account to the Chamber of Deputies by 30 April of this year, this term is laid down by law; II. the committees shall discuss the signed chapters and headings of the State Final Account, including contributions to the State Funds by 8 June; III. the committees shall forward their resolutions to the Committee on Budgets by 9 June; IV. the Committee on Budgets shall discuss, on 21 June, with the participation of the rapporteurs of the Committees, the resolutions of the committees and, respectively, the opposition reports of minorities; V. The Supreme Audit Office shall submit an opinion to the State Final Chamber of Deputies by 31 August, this deadline being again legal; VI. the Supervisory Committee shall discuss the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the State Final Account as from 1 September and submit the outcome of its deliberations to the Chair of the Chamber of Deputies; VII. The budgetary committee shall discuss on 20 September the State Final Account as a whole, including the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office, and prepare a draft resolution for the Chamber of Deputies; VIII. on 25 September, the Committee on Budgets shall present its resolution and, where appropriate, its opposing report to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; IX. The Chamber of Deputies shall discuss the State Final Account and the resolution of the Budget and Control Committee at its meeting from 10 October. The Chamber of Deputies commands the following to be discussed: I. Government proposal of the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2022 including a summary of chapters and opinions of the Supreme Audit Office to the Budget Committee and the opinion of the Supreme Audit Office on the Government's Draft of the Czech Republic's State Final Account for 2022 to the Audit Committee; II. chapters of the State Final Account, including the relationship of the State Budget to the budgets of the State Funds in 2022 to the various committees of the Chamber of Deputies in this way" - I would like to refer here, ladies and gentlemen, to the text of the resolution, which is available to you all in electronic form. The chapters of the State Final Account shall be directed to the various committees as appropriate. "The Budget Committee recommends to the President of the Chamber of Deputies to include the Government's draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2022 in the draft agenda of the Chamber of Deputies since 10 October of this year." That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-001-148.u3	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am now opening up a general debate to which I see that no one has applied. If this remains the case, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words? Not interested. And now we would like to proceed to a detailed debate - there is no interest, so I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word? Not interested. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution, as presented by the President of the Committee on Budgets, Josef Bernard. I'll rejoin and call in colleagues from the lobby. In the meantime, I will add my apologies: Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises at 16 o'clock for work reasons. I'm gonna go on, and I'm gonna give you a moment, please. I see that colleagues and colleagues are still flowing into the hall. For the coming colleagues, I will repeat that we will be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the President of the Committee on Budgets, Josef Bernard. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 84, 167 Members and Members, for 148, against none. The motion was accepted. It therefore means that we have approved the motion for a resolution. I'm done discussing this point. Thank you to the rapporteur. [[15.40 hours]] Now I'm opening another point, and that's
