ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-014-128.u1	128. Summary report on the Ombudsman's activities 2021 /German press 189/ Even in this case, I apologise to the Ombudsman from today's hearing, he will not be present. This House press has discussed the petition committee. The committee resolution was delivered to you as House Press 189/1 and I am asking that the rapporteur of the petition committee, Mr Stanislav Berkovec, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-014-128.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Let me introduce you very briefly to the discussion of this press 189, i.e. the Ombudsman's Summary Report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2022, at the proper 8th meeting of the Committee on Petitions on 17 May last year, and I will then introduce you to the motion for a resolution number 48. The report is very detailed, has a very professional editorial breakdown and the philosophy is also very simple. The protector generalizes the problems and knowledge gained by his activities and draws attention to the necessary changes to the legislation. Perhaps the solution proposes to the Chamber of Deputies in the form of legislative recommendations and also responds to how the recommendations submitted in previous years have been used. Just allow a few numbers that suggest that the activity is very rich. In 2021, the Authority received 7 988 incentives. That number of stimuli within the scope has returned almost to the level of the pre-pandemic period. The Office could help in 70 percent of the people who approached it, and 6 010 people used an information telephone line to verify whether their problem solving was good, to obtain information and to communicate further. I was personally interested as a journalist also in the communication of the Office itself, i.e. 102 press releases for that period, 4 press conferences, 224 details on Facebook and such very informal types of communication, such as podcasts, which were shot almost 50, podcasts for coffee with the Ombudsman, and I also like the fact that the Office took advantage of what the Brno transport company offers. It's a gallery tram offered by an organization every month, so one month, it was in March, it was a tram with an Ombudsman where people could learn about the office's activities. So much for the news report. [[12.30 hours]] Now, if you don't mind, Mr President, I will introduce you to motion for a resolution number 48 of the 8th meeting of the Committee on Petitions on 17 May last year: "The Committee on Petitions after the Ombudsman's introductory words, Mr Stanislav Křeček, Mr Stanislav Berkovec's report and after the debate I. discussed a comprehensive report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2021; II. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies 1. Notes the Ombudsman's comprehensive report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2021 pursuant to House Press No 189, 2. Draws the attention of the Government to the importance and need to address the shortcomings identified by the Ombudsman, 3. Calls on the Government to address the legislative initiatives set out in the introductory part of the summary report - legislative recommendations, in particular with regard to the following legislative recommendations: amendment of the legislation of the accident to waters, comprehensive regulation of custody and support measures for adults and the adoption of a new law governing abortion, and to submit to the Chamber of Deputies by 30. 9. 2022 a report on the use of these initiatives by including them in its legislative plan; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-014-128.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate on this point. Anyone reporting for the general debate? No one applies to the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am also ending the detailed debate. I suppose interest in the final word isn't. We will therefore proceed to the motion for a resolution, which was read by the Member in his speech. I don't think there's any point in repeating it. It's the three points that the MP here has read. If you don't protest, we might as well just vote. I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 129, 127 Members have been voted in favour, 96 votes against 2. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. We have dealt with paragraph 128, House press 189, and I am done discussing this point. The next item is point number
