ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u1	150. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws /house print 332/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Mr Martin Kupka will also state the bill. I'll ask him to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a proposal which above all ensures the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the regulation of the European Parliament. We specify the catalogue of the substance of the offences affecting the behaviour of the carrier, but also the railway operator, the railway station operator, the ticket vendor, the travel agent and the travel agency operator, which are contrary to that regulation, as well as the penalty for their commission. The draft law also makes use of several optional provisions contained in that Regulation. At the same time, we specify the rules governing the operation of service facilities, for which separate accounting is necessary in accordance with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the creation of a single European railway area. Finally, we narrow down the scope of the conditions for admission to the test, the composition of which is necessary for the issue of a railway vehicle driving licence on a trolleybus track so that the trolleybus drivers do not have to undergo the tests repeatedly in this sense and demonstrate their competence for the usual rolling stock, so that they can actually prepare a specific test corresponding to their profession as a trolleybus driver. With the recommendation of the Economic Committee to discuss and approve the draft law, as amended by the proposed three amendments, aimed, first, at specifying the definition of the entity which may draw up a declaration of conformity with the authorised type of vehicle, secondly, to supplement the obligation of a national or regional or publicly accessible train operator or part thereof to limit its operation, also to comply with the procedures laid down by the Commission's decision, and finally to precise the two factual elements of offences which may be committed by a railway operator or carrier in the field of emergency prevention, the Ministry of Transport has agreed to all those amendments. I believe that even this step, this concrete regulation of the railway law will not only contribute to the direct adaptation of the European directive, but will also allow other important, albeit minor, changes in this area of expertise. Thank you very much for your attention and for the support of this proposal, even now, at second reading, for submitting your possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The resolution of this committee was delivered as House prints 332/1 and 332/2. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Ondřej Lochman, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u4	Good morning again, dear colleagues. So we are in the House press 322. At its meeting on 13 April 2023, the Economic Committee, which is a guarantee committee for this press, adopted the following resolution: "After discussing the committee, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 332 as amended by the approved amendments, namely: I. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the following point Paragraph 23C is added. 7 which, including footnote 43, shall read: The operator of a national and regional or publicly accessible train or part thereof, which intends to limit its operation, shall also act in accordance with the European Union Regulation governing the details of the allocation schedule. In addition, the footnote.' So these next points are going to be multiplied. "II. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the following point shall In Article 49J, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: (2) in the third sentence, the words "holder of authorisation of a vehicle type" shall be replaced by the words, the applicant for authorisation to place a railway vehicle or a series of vehicles on the market." The following points are also numbered. "III. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. the following point shall In Article 51, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (g) be after the words "or § 23C para. The words " or " seven" are inserted and the following points are equally numbered. Last change: " [[IV.]] The following points shall be inserted after point 12 of Article 1: X. In Article 51, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 is at the end of the text of the letter. (g) supplement the words, or do not take measures to prevent them. X. V § 51 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (h) read:,h) shall not be removed pursuant to § 49 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) the deficiencies identified in the occurrence of an emergency, their causes or harmful consequences or as a result.'; These are the adjustments recommended by the Committee on Economic Affairs at second reading, and I also expect further possible amendments in this second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u5	Thank you. Before I open the general debate, I will apologize to Mrs Zuzana Ožanová from 11.40 to 14.01.00 for work reasons and Mr Ivo Vondrák from 10.30 to 12.00 for work reasons. That would be an apology. I am now opening a general debate in which I have Mr Kolovratník signed up. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u6	Thank you for the space. I will therefore be even more brief than in the previous law precisely because we are at second reading, so I am assuming a fundamental debate on individual amendments to the Economic Committee and subsequently at third reading. As I have seen what my colleagues have put forward so far, there have been relatively technicalities plus one amendment that deals with the so-called conservation or temporary interruption of traffic on the track, but now I see no major conflict anywhere, and we will certainly talk about it on the Economic Committee. At this stage at second reading, I just want to add the previous words of the petitioner, the Minister, to the fact that the Railway Act is amended in a short period of time for the third time and is meant to be well or correct. It is a long-term plan by which the Department of Transport progresses. In the previous parliamentary term, two amendments, one of 2018, if I am not mistaken, it was within the fourth railway package, it was also the transposition of the European directive, so it was, as we called it, such a market pillar, and then in 2020, it was the so-called technical pillar where we regulated the relations between carriers and transport infrastructure managers in relation to service facilities and other similar matters. I think both of these amendments worked quite well, so this third one continues to implement European law. It is certainly necessary to mention here and to say that it is in a positive direction that this railroad, as a public environmental transport, should be strengthened for users, for passengers, more attractive, more interesting, so that passengers' rights, as has already been said, are strengthened. Well, I could have a political debate here and go back to discounts on student fare and seniors, but I'm not gonna do it because I promised I'd be brief, and I think this belongs a little bit in a different place or space during the debate, primarily in relation to the budget, to budgeting, and even to transport strategies, not to this amendment of the law. After all, fare discounts are not legal, it is a matter of executive decision, government, with all the responsibility it carries and how it should be. Perhaps I will just mention two more quite interesting things in this law, which are therefore not dealt with by any amendment. They're in the opening text. This amendment also makes life easier for transport companies around the Czech Republic in quotation marks, this has to be recalled. This was initiated by the Association of Transport Enterprises, where, if you are not in the field, it may be interesting for you, but also transport companies fall in part and may fall under the Railway Act. Specifically, rail transport is typically trolleybuses. Even if they are road vehicles, they fall under the jurisdiction of the railway law, and colleagues from transport companies know how it is around the country, often in vain they seek drivers and workers into public transport, so they asked for, say, narrowing down requirements or a range of conditions for issuing a trolleybus licence. The D.O.D.'s here to meet them. And perhaps the last interesting thing that the amendment also introduced some exceptions for passenger rail transport by historic vehicles when it comes to the so-called experiences, and I think that this is also a matter of long-term non-political and positive in the sense of promoting and making public rail transport attractive. There is no need to delay more at this point in time as part of the second reading. Let us now wait, to which amendments our fellow Members will sign up, and we will certainly submit them to an expert debate within the Economic Committee and subsequently at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u7	Thank you. So I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. For the sake of order, will I ask if there is an interest in the final words now? It's not. We will proceed to the debate in detail, which I am initiating. Let me remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified, at least in writing. Mr Stanislav Blaha is the first to report. No, well, it's registered in writing, so I'll delete it. I understand communication with Mr Munzar here. And now it is Minister Martin Kupka's turn, with his amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u8	I would also like to present and give detailed reasons for the parliamentary proposal which we are submitting together with Ondřej Lochman, Antonín Tesařík, Jiří Slavík, in the system is stored under number 2567 and concerns the conditions for interruption of operation and operation of the track or part of it. This is the original part of the bill, but we have submitted a detailed expert discussion in the previous 12 months. We tried to reach an agreement that would take place both at expert level, at the level of individual carriers, both in passenger transport and in freight transport, while we also involved individual regions in the discussion, the topic was part of the discussion of the expert committee of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. We tried to come up with a solution that would not limit or threaten further development of the railway in the Czech Republic in any way in the future, but, on the other hand, to avoid unnecessary spending where there is no longer a prospect of developing railway transport in places where the railway was originally created to ensure historical transport costs, but there is currently no interest in operating such transport. A technical agreement has been reached to determine the essential conditions for interruption of serviceability, which are precisely expressed by the number of 300 journeys per year for the purpose of transporting passengers or 12 journeys per year for the purpose of transporting goods. There is a general consensus that if the runway is not used to this minimum extent, the funds spent on annual maintenance and care for the track are really inefficient and, in the case of such a line, no significant development can be expected. At the same time, however, we also agreed on a way to decide on such an interruption in operational capacity, as it will be administrative proceedings, and the key role in this administrative procedure will be for the municipalities as key actors and public transport operators. It is a clear insurance policy, for example, before a step that could tie up the potential development of such a railway line in the future. In addition to the Ministry of Defence, which, of course, pursues the interest of defence of the state, the relevant region and the municipality must also issue their opinions, so they can comment on the matter, and if they decide to issue a dissenting opinion, it is also considered that, within their self-governing competences, they will complete the order for the further operation of rail transport on that section. At the same time, on the basis of the incentives of both coalition partners and also the Association of Regions and Transport Organizers, we have also introduced a specific process in this amendment of the Act, on the contrary, to restore the interrupted operation of the track in the appropriate section. I am convinced that the form that we are presenting has a really good professional support, an appropriate technical argument, also from the point of view of specific actors, self-government and carriers, and I am convinced that, in this form, it will in no way endanger future development, on the contrary, it will allow us to concentrate the funds where possible, where this is justified and where it will just bring another significant effect for the development of rail transport, on which we care. But where there really is no perspective at the moment, and yet the current law obliges the Railway Administration to ensure permanent maintenance, there really means wasting money. Compared to the previous proposals, which were discussed in the previous period, the value of the proposal presented is based on the detailed discussion that the proposal has been subject to, and we only submit it when the agreement and support of all the key players has been really achieved. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u9	Thank you. I am just making sure that Mr Blaha is absent. Yes, that's right... no, he's already here, great. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u10	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, I'm sorry, I was in the Senate. I would like to sign up for my three amendments under the numbers 2516, 2517 and 2518. They are all duly substantiated in the explanatory memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-004-150.u11	Thank you very much, and I will just make sure - no candidates for the performance in detail? I am therefore ending the debate in detail. I will apologize to Mr Michael Kohajda for the whole day for working reasons and to Mr Julius Špičák from 10.48 hours for health reasons. I ask again for order: is there interest in final words? I suppose there's no interest in final words now. That is why I can end the second reading of this proposal and thank the Minister and the rapporteur. Thank you for your cooperation, too. And we will proceed to the next point. It's point 111, which I'm opening with this. It's about
