ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u1	137. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, or to the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. [[Prime Minister Fiala is coming to the government bench.]] I warmly welcome the Prime Minister. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14:30 to 16:00, and to other members of the government from 16:00 to 18:00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you on the bench. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. I will add my apologies: Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes, from 14.30 pm for business reasons, Mr Jan Volný from 14.30 pm for health reasons and Mr Stanislav Berkovec today from 15 a.m. to the end of the day. This would be done with formalities, and I can give the floor to Mr Vladimír Zlínský, who was drawn in the first place to give his oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. He will be prepared as the next Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the European Union, or the European Parliament, at the beginning of May of this year, ratified the Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women, or the Istanbul Convention. MEPs and MEPs have called on the remaining six countries which have not yet ratified the Treaty, including the Czech Republic, to do so without delay. Španělka woman Mária Rodriguezová Ramosová assigned the Czech Republic to the most reactionary states. From the point of view of critics the Convention and priori assumes that the male sex is a natural source of aggression against the female sex and thus creates the prerequisites for developing intersexual animosity without taking into account the evolutionary biological, psychological and family role of men and women. All of this causes the male element to be treated as a potential culprit who is suspected in advance and needs to be precautionaryally reeducated by creating a sense of innate guilt and stigma. This must inevitably lead to the gradual destruction of the male element in our societies, which is necessary and necessary for the health of the population as well as the female element. I can't imagine how psychologically castrated men will be attractive to women and will support them in ensuring the stability of the family as a solid foundation for our society. It cannot be excluded that this Convention will shortly be discussed on the ground of the Government and Parliament of the Czech Republic. For this reason, Prime Minister, I would be interested in your opinion on this issue with a final statement as to whether you are the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic for or against and why. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u3	Thank you for your time and now the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala has the floor. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to today's interpellation. Thank you for the question on the Istanbul Treaty, which is a topic that divides a number of people, whether in politics or in public space, not only in the Czech Republic. It is probably worth recalling that since the convention was adopted in November - already in April - 2011 by the Council of Europe's ministerial committee, it is called the Istanbul Treaty. The exact name is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Reservations that sound and appear in the Czech Republic are mostly related to the form, language, tone of the message rather than content, because when we look at our legal order, actually everything, virtually everything that is in the Istanbul Convention, is already regulated in our legal order, and it also basically aims at other countries. [[The Prime Minister takes paperwork from the government bench in a large format and shows them to the plenary.]] Because you have announced that the interpelation will be about the Istanbul Convention - I know that no one will read it, but here it is indicated what is in our legal order and what is not in it, and when you look at all the points that the Istanbul Treaty brings, you see that red is the very minimum of things, so our rule of law basically everything that is in the Istanbul Treaty contains - except for some exceptions. But once again, reservations are about form, language and tone. The convention doesn't just define violence against women. It defines some crimes that primarily concern women, but the convention talks about other victims of domestic violence, men, children, and seniors. At present, 36 states have ratified it, nine just signed it. On a permanent basis, some countries reject the Istanbul Treaty, such as Russia, Azerbaijan, stating that this is not in line with national family policy and traditional morality. The Czech Republic signed this Convention on 2 May 2016, i.e. at a time when the government formed by the Czech Party was a Social Democratic Party and the ANO movement. The treaty has been signed, but has not yet been ratified, the ratification process has not yet been carried out, nor has it been done to deal with the treaty as it is necessary in this case, Parliament, in both its chambers. We are currently in the position that the Ministry of Justice has sent the contract to a commentary procedure, which is standard, and proposes three variants of the procedure: on the one hand, the Government will agree to the proposal for ratification of this Convention and will refer it to the two chambers of Parliament for further discussion, or will re-assign the Minister of Justice to submit the material by 31 January 2024, or cancel the task of the Minister of Justice to submit a proposal for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. 15 days. 3. the comment procedure has been closed and the material should be submitted at the government meeting, which will sometimes be at the end of May, at the beginning of June. You ask me my personal opinion, but it is not as important as whether we will reach a result in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, in the Czech Republic at all, and a consensus. Since we actually have most of these things covered in our legislation, it is rather an ethical question, and I assume that the debates will go across the political parties. My personal opinion is that it would be more favourable, fairer and fairer for all Members to have a chance to express themselves, so I think that we should actually submit the Istanbul Treaty to Parliament's decision. I think that's the best course of action.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u5	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister and I see an interest in the supplementary issue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u6	Thank you for your word, thank you for your reply to the Prime Minister. I would like to add that, not that I have a question, rather I think that, in the case of a broad adoption of this Convention, a precedent is being created for the adoption of other supranational conventions that are superior to our laws and, in the name of the supposed higher global good, will impose on us the order and principles that will be etching and destructing the other foundations of our civilization, because I think that this Convention is directed against the family, and here it could target, for example, our culture, tradition, language, nation and state. And as for the fact that it's already implemented in our laws, I think it's a pretty good reason not to accept the treaty, because if we already have it implemented, then why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u7	Thank you for keeping time, and I see that the Prime Minister wants to respond again, so please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u8	It's actually important whether it's legal or not. And I'm sure it's important to me. The Istanbul Convention is really primarily focused on countries other than the Czech Republic, it newly defines some crimes - mutilation of the female genital, forced marriage, dangerous persecution, forced with subsequent sterilization and many other things. It is important here that we actually have almost everything treated in our legal order in an absolutely sufficient way. But that's why, in fact, the debate that we have inside the parties and within our society, or those who know what the Istanbul Treaty is about, doesn't have to do with the effects, the concrete effects, but rather about the form, language, tone, that's what the concerns are about, and that's what some more conservative opinions are pointing at, say, it would be too much of a shift in one direction. For this reason, it is more a part of today's cultural conflict than a specific debate on how we would adjust our legal order. Even this decision of the European Parliament has no direct impact on the Czech Republic. We really care whether we ratify or ratify this treaty, but even if we ratify it, it will not really mean any significant shift for our legal order. What is only important and what we will have to deal with here, if the government decides to pass it on to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, is the broader cultural importance of what the Istanbul Convention introduces and will be on all political parties and on individual Members to decide this in accordance with their conscience and belief. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u9	Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura, who was drawn second, will speak with further intervention and Mr Karel Sládeček will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u10	Dear Prime Minister, let's see what you told people on NOVA, on behalf of the ODS and the COO coalition, just a few weeks ago. [[The PM answers: We will not raise taxes. Period.]] Now, let's see what you promised the people before the election. [[It shows different posters.]] : "SPOLU - we do not increase taxes", "No - higher taxes" Furthermore, you told the people behind the ODS and the coalition of the SPOL: "We will not allow an increase in real estate taxes. The State must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and the family." You also promised before the elections that we would "refuse higher real estate taxation." And you even put a red wheel on it "Share and Support Change"! And three days ago, your Vice-President of the ODS and Secretary of Finance Stanjura, Prime Minister, said that "our pre-election tax password was just a billboard shortcut" and confessed that you tricked the voters. In parliamentary democracy, the parties who have won the majority in the elections and are promoting a programme with which they have gained citizens' trust. Your representatives only made it to the House because you lied to people. The economy of Ilona Švihlíková from the University of Economics a few days ago, Prima literally said that you, quote, "lied in the morning, lied at noon, lied in the evening." There may be only three reasons, and I want to ask you why you're lying to people, why did you trick your constituents? Either you're so incompetent that you don't know what you're saying, Prime Minister, or you're lying on purpose. The third option is that it's a combination of both. So let me repeat the question: why are you lying to people? And I'm not asking about the contents of your consolidation package. Please don't justify that, the citizens have heard that in detail over the last week. I'm only asking one question, why are you lying to people?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u11	Thank you for keeping time and now the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, will have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u12	And yet there is an option that you have not mentioned, Mr President, and the alternative is that you lie to people, rip statements out of context, and act demagogically. I don't lie to people, my government colleagues don't, and we're ready to defend it at any time. [[Laughs in part of the SPD.]] And I won't even remind you of what every reasonable person sees, which is that the situation is, of course, completely different from what it was at the time of the election campaign. But I'll explain it, I don't want to apologize at all, but I just want to say that she was different, no one could know - and if you knew that, you should have said that there would be something like Russian aggression on Ukraine, that there would be an energy crisis, that it would affect supply chains, food prices, energy prices, and that there would be a need for people in a significant way to help people -- every help, and that we differ in those opinions, something costs, someone has to pay it, and the state can afford to help for a long time only in the way that it earns, what it has revenue for. Of course, we simply have to respond to this situation. But in general, before the elections, we said that we would not increase the tax burden on citizens, that we could work to the maximum with the adjustment of certain taxes, but the overall tax burden will remain the same, and the overall tax burden remains the same, so we keep our word. We reduced our pre-election promises last year, and that is traceable, we can all calculate it, reducing the total tax burden by CZK 30 billion. Yes, there are different opinions about this, such as the trade unions say that we have reduced taxes by CZK 50 billion. We don't have those numbers, if we did, that's good. According to us, we have reduced by 30 billion crowns and will increase the tax burden next year thanks to the measures you mentioned, by a maximum of 31 billion crowns, 30 billion - 31 billion. So it is quite clear mathematically that we are not increasing the tax burden on citizens, so we are fulfilling our pre-election vows. But we have promised citizens even more strongly that we will put public finances in order, that we will stop the terrible debt of our state, that we will carry out a pension reform for which the previous government did not have the courage, and that we will slim down the state, and we are doing all this. In our consolidation package, and that is also the fulfilment of our promise, what we are doing on the spending side of the state budget is much more important than what we are doing on the revenue side of the state budget. This means that the ratio for next year is about one-third of the revenue - two-thirds of the expenditure - totaling the CZK 94 billion, which will be lower in next year's deficit than if we had done nothing. In 2025 it will even be CZK 148 billion. We keep our word, we keep our word that we care more about the spending side of the budget than about the revenue side. We practically did not intervene in personal income tax, our intervention concerns less than or about 1% of citizens of the Czech Republic. We have kept this tax on the original figures, where we got it when we canceled the supergross wage, and the overall tax burden in the Czech Republic remains the same despite the fact that we are faced with such great difficulties, the highest, fastest, most dynamic debtization of the European Union that we have inherited from the previous government, and we have to do something about it. We do not want to accept the state budget deficits of CZK 300 billion or more. We have to do something about it, and anyone who thinks about it just a little bit understands that if we are to do something about it, we have to take measures, especially on the spending side, but also some measures on the revenue side, especially when we have reduced the overall tax burden on citizens last year, which we are pleased to do, we are proud to do, and we will try to maintain the overall tax burden as maintained by this tax package. [[14.50 hours]] By the way, we have also thought about social solidarity in this tax package, so it affects the least of those who are socially vulnerable who might get into trouble. That is why the downward adjustment of some taxes, the overall burden on value added tax will be lower, which is why less income groups of citizens will feel positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u13	Thank you and with the response again, President Tomio Okamura. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u14	So it's variant number three that you're also incompetent, you don't know what you're saying, and you're still lying on purpose. I'm gonna play again what you said a few weeks ago on Nova TV, and all the citizens know you're raising taxes. [[The speaker plays video from his cell phone.]] And everyone can see that you've stepped up to a general tax increase in that package. That's why I'm asking you again, Prime Minister, you told it on Nova a few weeks ago, why are you lying to people? Why did you trick them? Why did you say you wouldn't raise taxes? You're increasing VAT from 10 to 12 percent, beer from 10 to 21. You didn't even say before the election that you were going to increase the retirement age. I asked you not to talk about the tax package, we know the content. All citizens know you want to raise taxes and you will. You even voted this week to raise your excise tax by a crown of 50 on diesel and gasoline. So why did you lie?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u15	I beg the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u16	I don't think you need to tell me how to answer. I answer what you're asking me, at your discretion. I understand you don't like it because your thesis doesn't fit. When I say how these things really are, everyone will take a picture of whether we have respected the fact that we will not increase taxes within the meaning of the overall tax burden, whether we have complied with the fact that, for example, we will not increase VAT because, overall, and that is also to be said, overall, on value added tax, as we have simplified the system and we have two taxes, 21 and 12, instead of the complex system that has been introduced here before, citizens will pay less on tax overall. We are even actually reducing this tax, and there are clear figures for that. There's no need to think about that, even if you're here to take your word for it, because that's pretty clear. And by the way, at a lower rate of tax, 12 percent, that's where we put food, medicine, and medical supplies. That is where we have also included buildings intended for citizens' housing, precisely to help those with lower social income, so as to help families access easy housing. So here on the example of simplifying the tax system, which was also our pre-election promise, the introduction of two VAT rates, that was also our pre-election promise, we were able to bear in mind the social consequences of this tax. So the overall tax burden is not decreasing, some taxes have been increased, but other taxes have been reduced, and the overall impact on citizens will be that the tax burden will remain the same as it was last year. That's what I think is traceable, verifiable, and it's clear to keep our promise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u17	Thank you. Mr Karel Sládeček, Mr Karel Sládeček, will be prepared by Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It's a coincidence that I can follow up on the previous speaker. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether the Office of the Government, which has under it an agenda for combating misinformation, has already begun to address the spread of your disinformation that you reported on Nova in October 2022, and I quote that, and it said here and in the audio: "We will not raise taxes and dots." According to one of the European Parliament's best and most visible politicians, Mr Tomáš Zdechovský, misinformation is the opposite of targeted truth and you have spread the opposite of targeted truth on TV Nova. By your statement that you will not increase taxes, you have ranked among the top of the Czech disinformation scene. I would like to inform you whether you are already being investigated by a working group set up by you at the Office of the Government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u19	Thank you for keeping time and now the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic will have the floor Petr Fiala. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u20	If I were to take you seriously, Mr President, through Madam President, I would have to tell you that we are having an old dispute here about what misinformation is. It has already been said several times in the interview, and I can only repeat to you that we do not consider disinformation information that... or disinformation that needs to be combated and which should be dealt with by any government body, we do not consider information that is distributed to citizens of the Czech Republic within the scope of freedom of expression, regardless of whether the information and the opinion that the citizen distributes is true or not, every citizen has the right to do so. And that's not misinformation. So if I take you seriously, even my statements as a citizen of the Czech Republic's policy of freedom of speech do not apply to the work group which deals with disinformation, because this working group deals with the security aspects of the influence of foreign power and information manipulation, and that is therefore quite different. But now back to the essence of your question, which you thought was funny by its formula, even though it wasn't funny at all. I am here on the question of your President, Mr Okamura, I think, clearly answered and explained how we went to taxes, that the overall tax burden is not increased, that we have not increased personal income taxes except for a very small population, no taxes on businessmen or self-employed persons we have not increased or introduced. We have only increased the contribution to the lowest income, in the interests of self-employed workers, inter alia, in order to qualify for a decent pension, and we have only increased it to a minimum wage level. But the total tax burden is the same as some taxes. Even - and citizens will feel it and feel it on their wallets and feel it on what they are buying - there has been a reduction, and I think people will appreciate that they will have cheaper food, for example, or medical supplies and medicines and other things together. So there's been a significant adjustment here. But what is important, what we are working on and what is our responsibility - and for which we do not expect applause, but we do it as a responsible government - is to deal with the huge deficits that we have inherited. This is an adjustment or a consolidation of public budgets that will ensure that we do not get into huge debts in the future, we will have no problem repaying them, we will become responsible and manage responsibly. Any family, if they have more spending than income in the long run, can't handle it, and trust me, even if you don't want to hear it, it can't even be done by the state. And we're setting an example here. We do not just want people to contribute more, but we, above all, are cutting spending on the spending side, reducing the cost of the state very significantly, the operating expenditure of the state by CZK 20 billion. What government in front of us did that? We have reduced the number of officials by a thousand seats, we have returned to the level of 2015, i.e. before there was a significant increase in government, and we are doing all these steps that lead to the goal that we have and that we have promised citizens to have a functioning - not a weak, functioning, strong state, but a state that is slim, efficient and that serves people. [[15.00 hours]] So we're going in this direction by example, reducing the cost of the state. We are mainly reducing expenditure, which is important in terms of sustainability, and in a very mild way spread over all social groups so that it does not affect the weakest, we also adjust the revenue side of the state budget so that the overall tax burden on citizens does not increase. And in the next year, as I have shown you convincingly here on specific figures, it will not increase either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u21	Thank you for keeping time. There is no longer the Member's interest in the supplementary question, so we are going to interpel Mrs Karla Maříková and will prepare Mr Jan Síla. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, you have purchased sports equipment for the Strakov Academy at the Office of the Government at a time when we have the greatest debt in the history of this country, at a time when you claim that the government will save on the state, not on the people. The bill for two years of your reign is that we have one of the biggest inflations and high above the average in the European Union. Just to refresh your memory, because lately I see that it doesn't serve you much if you don't even remember your pre-election vows - you bought a ride, a treadmill, a hanger bars, a ribstoll, a hanger, and many more. So, since you've got yourself a gym in Strakovka, I wonder if you've been practicing honestly in it since you've already spent taxpayers' money in this way? And I'm asking, how much have you run on that treadmill? And when will you finally run out among people to look them in the face and hear what they think about your government and your election lies, that you will not increase taxes, especially real estate tax, that you considered a socialist solution, that despite your promises you supported the ban on selling cars with internal combustion engines and that you would raise the tax on businessmen and natural persons? Prime Minister, when are you going to run into the field and ask people what they think of your lies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u23	Thank you for your time, and now there is room for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u24	You're obsessed with the word lies, but I don't know if you can apply that term to everything you're saying. I don't think anything's gonna happen. You're also worried about me going out with people and my constituents. Of course I do, I walk, I hear those opinions, and I think I hear opinions other than you, because a lot of people express their understanding of the measures and understand that they must be saved, which you obviously are not able to understand in any way. But the responsible policy is that it thinks about the future, and that's what we do. And now I'm not going to go into any controversy, and I'm not going to give you back the same sharp statements, I'm going to try to answer completely factually and specifically. So I didn't know what the device for Strakovka was coming for, but I guess that's how I understood that you'd be asking questions about some of the things that were created at the Office of the Government. Of course, you understand, although I don't know, but I assume you understand that the Prime Minister doesn't order equipment from the Office of the Government, and it's not even my role. I read or saw an article in a medium that said what kind of services workers use at the Office of the Government and that there are commercial services in the building, hairdressers and so on, a doctor. It hasn't been written that these services have been there for decades and that our government hasn't implemented them, but they're services that serve office employees, they're commercial services, employees pay for them, the office doesn't subsidize them, and the only benefit is that they have it in their office building. As far as the gym goes, it's 15 square feet, it's an ex-office. This facility was acquired in the cargo of CZK 101,000. It was fully financed from the Fund for Cultural and Social Needs in accordance with the decree of the Ministry of Finance, from the funds of this fund intended to ensure the cultural, social and sporting needs of our employees. It should be said that these premises are used by employees outside working hours, which is ensured by an electronic system that allows them to enter - that is, when they enter the space, they are logged out of working hours that do not count to their total working time. As far as specific equipment is concerned, you're better informed than I am, but I have written documents here. It's one treadmill, one wheel and some weights and some exercise pads. This equipment was done on the basis of the demand of the employees using it. I and other ministers don't have a chance, we don't have time to visit the gym, even if it would be good for us, but not for the reasons you're talking about. So it's from the Fund of Cultural and Social Needs, it's a thing that serves the employees of the Office of the Government, as it is in other institutions and businesses, and it's absolutely standard. I don't think there's a need for your disgust or your hatred of the government to be passed on to the Bureau staff, and now I'd like to stand up for them, and they're not responsible for that. I think it's good that they have a gym and some things working there from morning to night and often beyond their normal working hours when there are meetings when there is a government meeting. It is not easy for them to do so, and I think that such a small thing as that arose at the Office of the Government of the Cultural and Social Needs Fund should not be envious, should not be the object of ridicule, should rather be wished for by those people, should be understood, just as you should have an understanding for the staff of the Chamber of Deputies and all the other people who are just doing their job honestly. By the way, when we were at the Office of the Government, it was our government that decided that the original funds intended by the previous government for reconstruction, such as the meeting rooms of the government, would not be used for this reconstruction, but we used them to warm the roof of the Strakov Academy for energy savings, for buildings and for the operation of the Office of the Government. The saving after the heating of energy should be over 14 percent, and I think that is not enough. So even here, it shows how effectively we handle the funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u25	Thank you, and the honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please bring her in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u26	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, all you had to do was ask what I was going to ask, but I would assume that as Prime Minister of this country, you don't need the paper that your officials will prepare for you, and you can answer from the bottom. But I understand you're having a very difficult time talking about your lies. You know the good old saying, "Who's lying, he's stealing, and he's digging into hell?" And when I read the statements of your two Stanjura and Blažek ministers today, I wonder who the biggest liar here is. Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura said that your pre-election tax password was just a billboard shortcut. Minister Blažek said you weren't lying, you said something you couldn't do. You guys put out some kind of competition at ODS, who's the bigger liar?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u27	Well, that was an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u28	Madam, there is no shame in having the facts, having the numbers, not remembering everything, looking into them. On the contrary, I will argue with you. I would be a bad prime minister if I were to take care of specific items that will be brought up by the staff gym of the Office of the Government, you really can't ask me to do that. And, yes, I had the evidence I could draw from, and that's why I could give you a factual answer. And as far as talking low, you and your follow-up question have read from the paper. I only gave you the paper, as you put it, answered or gave you the figures and facts that I can't, and frankly, I don't even want to wear in my head. I don't think the Prime Minister is supposed to be a micromanager. We've had one before. It didn't go so well, I wouldn't want to go back to that. The government office has its head office, the government office has its competent professionals who decide what benefits the Fund of Cultural and Social Needs will provide to employees, and I think it's not only okay, but it's also good, and we should wish it to those employees, as I said once before. If we lie or we don't lie about the circumstances of our austerity package, I think it will first assess the citizens, the voters will judge. We are not afraid of their assessment, we will patiently and honestly explain to them how we have taken these measures, why we have done so. And we're gonna tell them the truth. [[15.10 hours]] For example - yes, we had to reach for some taxes to be adjusted, but our promise is that we have not increased the overall tax burden on citizens of this state, and I think that is important from this point of view. But don't worry about our voters. we can explain to citizens the measures we have taken for their good future and in our responsibility to children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u29	Thank you for keeping the time, and Mr Jan Síla has his interpelation, Mr Miloslav Janulík will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, allow me to address you, too, about the consolidation package. I have studied your electoral program, where it was said that only 2 percent of you talked about the consolidation of the state budget. A statement made in the electoral leaflet that you will not increase property taxes, and what injustice it is that property that has already been taxed many times is to be taxed again, we all know, which concerns the promise not to increase VAT. I have heard Mr Stanjura's explanation that there is actually no increase, but I cannot agree with this vocabulary because you are increasing, for example, by 2% the price for medicines, water, heat, child food, public transport, flour for celiacs, and thus basic living conditions for the most necessary. We've talked about the United States military bases on our territory, we've talked about this several times, but I've intersected you on this subject. Prime Minister, isn't it a little kinky that you've fooled your constituents in such a flagrant way that you've barely reached power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u31	Thank you for keeping time and again the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u32	Thank you for the question, for one reason in particular, because the way you put it, Mr. Ambassador, you actually showed the way in which you manipulate our statements and the facts. [[Realities?]] If you're quoting my comments or statements from my colleagues on real estate that it's unnecessary to tax once a taxed property, then please, it was a different tax. This was not about real estate tax, but it was about real estate acquisition tax, where in our view double taxation really took place. These things are traceable. And what did the Civil Democratic Party do - and that is also important, and I like to remind everyone here? The Civil Democratic Party has abolished the property acquisition tax, so we do not have any real estate acquisition tax in the Czech Republic, and therefore there is no taxation on one of the taxed items as we talked about it. So this is an example of some manipulation that isn't right. Of course, I would rather we didn't have to touch any taxes, and if we didn't have to adjust taxes in this way, we just have to raise some. For me, however, it is important that we have not increased the overall tax burden on citizens, and for me it is also important - and here I will say that I support this tax regulation and we are very happy - that we have simplified the tax system, and I am talking about VAT, that we will only have two rates of value added tax, that the confusion that was in it, that it will no longer be possible to simply move individual items from one lower to the other lower tax rate depending on how politicians sleep or what they think, that we will have a clear system with two rates, a basic 21, and where there are some reasons, social or other, so it is 12, and I think it is right, or I am happy about this tax adjustment. And otherwise, when you mention our electoral program, our government's program, it's a good thing there are so many experts in the electoral program of the COO coalition, I'm also pleased. Well, I'll remind you of some of the things we promised. "We will start growth by investing in human resources, infrastructure and digitization to support the transformation of the Czech economy." That's what we're doing. Record investment of CZK 150 billion in transport infrastructure, we are starting digitization, support of gigafactory construction, lithium mining, so that we have the entire production chain here, we are fulfilling the program. Another quote: "We will do everything we can to make the deficit fall to 1,5 percent of GDP by the end of the parliamentary term." That's our election promise. This is not a simple task, it is an ambitious task, and this is what fills our recovery package. Private money, savings will be more effective - we will extend it to the possibilities that are proven abroad, third pillar adjustments are already in the legislative process - we are holding this as well. Another quote that I could say from our program - which relates to a recovery package or pension reform: "We will set clear rules for retirement in physically demanding processes, we will gradually set a new age limit for others." These are all the measures we promised the voters, and it all includes our package. I think people understand. I don't put much on the polls, but when we're here to talk about whether people understand it or not, one of the surveys that has been published recently is that the presentation of the so-called recovery economic package, or that it is a necessary step, agrees 51 percent of the respondents that this is not a necessary step, only 39 percent. As much as the reforms presented and their specific impacts on people's lives in the Czech Republic are understandable, it corresponds to 46 percent - they are understandable, 41 - incomprehensible or not understood, or most or more people understand it rather than understand it and we are able to explain it gradually to others - because it is more than 60 measures, it is not at all easy - to explain. So I think that even here, it clearly shows that we keep our promises... and that we keep them for people intelligible. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u33	Thank you. The Member is interested and has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u34	Thank you for your reply, however, Prime Minister, I cannot agree with you because the property acquisition tax was abolished by the government of Andrej Babiš with the support of the votes of the SPD. So it's not entirely correct, it's your statement, but most of all, I think that your deceiving voters should be dealt with by resigning and asking voters to approve US military bases on our territory, raising real estate taxes, and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u35	Thank you for your time, and the Prime Minister will take the floor to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u36	If I want to treat these interventions honestly, I need to respond to what you're saying and to your question. So if you said we were talking about double taxation in the case of real estate somewhere, I have to tell you that it wasn't real estate tax, but it was real estate tax - yes, it was cancelled, I said that the ODS canceled it, I agree that it was in the previous period, it was more party votes, then we didn't have the strength to do it, but this is just a fact that everyone can verify and which is traceable. I forgot to respond -- because it's such nonsense that a person will even, like, completely pass away -- on your comment about some kind of American base on our territory. You know about any bases? Or are they preparing some? Or is there someone talking? So this is what the government of the Czech Republic doesn't know, the government doesn't work on anything like that, and I don't even know that the American party would be interested in something like that. Well, no one asked us to do that, we're not stealing anything like that, so as soon as you started talking about some misinformation on my part, this is a very typical misinformation, because it's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u37	Thank you for keeping time. This is how this interpelation took place. I'm gonna load two more apologies. Mrs Jarmila Levko apologizes from 15 to 18 o'clock for reasons of work and Mr Marek Výborný from 14.30 o'clock for reasons of work. And we are returning to the next in the order of Mr Miloslav Janulík, and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, well, I'm just going to margo the tax. Actually, you said you guys canceled the property transfer tax, you were in opposition in the past period, so I guess you can't add that to the good. But still, the real estate transfer tax, who's getting real estate today? The one with the money. This concerns a complete fraction of people, but we're all paying what we own some property that we've taken care of to live and have a roof over our heads, so we're paying real estate tax, and you're going to lift it up nicely for all of us. When I look at the package, it's not supposed to be until next year, so if it's all the way you planned it, and the benefits from that tax go into the budget about 2025, I don't know what it's related to. However, my intervention is the economic situation of the citizens. I'd like to, please, because it's for an ordinary citizen, and now I quote my constituents, it's just so inconspicuous and unreadable, if you could just say in a couple of simple sentences what, when and in what terms people really feel right now. Otherwise, I suggest - as you say yourself, you don't believe the survey, the one you quoted here, I don't believe at all - I really recommend getting out of the limo somewhere in the Highlands, walking around the village and going to the store, even though I know it's hard because you have a social bubble, but that's a complete detachment from reality, because when a normal, standard citizen goes to the store, he sees something completely different than you say here, and there's a dramatic contradiction. So I would really recommend looking at it this way through the ordinary eyes and not listening to those counselors over and over again. And if you could really tell us what, when, where, how, how to understand the ordinary citizen, and so maybe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u39	Thank you for keeping time and now Prime Minister Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u40	But that communication always needs two sides, so to understand it, it takes an appetite to understand it. But I think that citizens - and I see it from the reactions I have - understand why we are saving, why we are doing these measures and what they are leading to. I'm gonna answer your question, but I'm not gonna forgive myself for two notes first. I move among people, I live in a normal family, we have contacts with people, I go out with people, I'm not even afraid to talk to those who yell at me and hold demonstrations for the benefit of another political movement, I have no problem with that. So let's not rush into who's out there, where's between people, that's really ridiculous. The second thing about the real estate tax. Let's not paint this like some horrible tragedy. I don't know what kind of property you have, but normal people who live in an apartment or a family home, that tax will increase by a few hundred a year, so it just is, so let's not panic again. Property tax and generally property tax are the lowest in the Czech Republic not only from EU countries, but are the lowest in all OECD countries. Only Estonia has lower taxes on property or lower taxes on real estate, all others have higher taxes. After this increase in property tax, we will still be among the countries with the lowest property tax, this needs to be seen. Now, what's next? I've already made it clear here in these previous interventions what will be reduced to citizens, I've told them who will be affected, who will not be affected. Now, let's talk about a time plan. Yes, these measures apply to 2024 and some, for legislative reasons, because of the tax collection, will have an impact on the budget of 2025. That's right, and that's what we're honest about. That is why we are saying that the impact - the reduction in the budget deficit - will be 94 billion in 2024 and nearly 148 billion in 2025, because these things are coming on gradually. We want to turn the recovery package into legislation as quickly as possible. Our idea is that we will do it as far as possible in one law, in one legislative measure. Our idea is that, over the course of the summer, we would have been dealing with this so that we could make it all happen, and everyone would have all the information in time to allow this recovery package to enter into force in concrete measures, in specific legislation from 1. 1st year 2024. Yes, it is a number - I was talking about 50 measures - and it is also a number of legislative adjustments that need to be made because we are reaching into the state's spending, we are also reaching into income, we are touching taxes, these are all things that really require legislative regulation. About the prices. Yes, we can go to the shops, we can measure some consumer baskets, but we have the institutions that do it. And from the information that we have, and I am happy about it, and it pleases the citizens, we know that, for example, foods that are repeatedly mentioned here have seen a month-on-month drop in prices, and these are simply specific things: the price of vegetables by 5%, the price of eggs by almost 13 %, 12 percent of semi-fat durable milk, soft drinks by 2,3 %, oil 2.6 %, poultry by 1,5 %, sugar by 4 %. I'm not gonna read it here, but the facts are pretty clear. Food prices are falling, we are glad that it is, we are going to continue with the steps we are doing to reduce prices - not only food, energy prices are also falling - but also to reduce inflation, which seems to have started to go well, and we are certainly all happy about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u41	Thank you, I see an interest in the supplementary question and at the same time I would like to ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u42	Thank you for the floor. You've already quoted it here this morning, the 2%. Well, if it goes up 300 percent before, then it goes down by 2, so you're the only one who's really happy about it, so that's not gonna make anyone else happy. [[Fun and applause for members of the ANO movement.]] I didn't find out... I understand it's gonna be in the package and all, but the effects, what's it gonna be like? You didn't know here a few weeks ago - you said you wouldn't raise taxes, so eventually they're increasing, you say they're not, but they're just getting bigger, unfortunately, but that's just hard. I have one medical feeling about your performance - we call it that the patient doesn't have a disease perspective, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u43	Thank you. I don't think we're in a medical office. Please, room for the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u44	But we can use this term. The patient doesn't have a view of the disease, it's true of the movement you represent. You gave us a country in a state where there was the biggest debt we're fighting now, when you didn't do anything about pension reform, that's what we have to do now, even though you knew it was needed, we were energy-insecurity, when inflation was rising sharply. [[The response of several members of the ANO movement.]] So, yes, I'm happy that this inflation growth is going to stop. I am delighted that they are falling at least by a little bit of food prices and we will continue to make them go further. I am pleased that the catastrophic scenarios we have also heard from your ranks have not been fulfilled, and it is also traceable - how we will not survive the winter here, how businesses will fail here, how unemployment will grow here, how fuel prices will grow here and so on. I mean, remember those words. Yes, the patient doesn't have a view of his disease - I don't know how you put it right now. That's exactly it, and it fits you. You don't realize what you've been doing, you don't realize that you don't have any recipes, that you have the idea that we can just live on debt, that somehow it's going to work out, that it's supposed to help and take less from people, and so on. But that's just not how it works. I mean, imagine your family. If you keep spending more than your income, it will just end badly sooner or later. And so is the state. I think this can be understood, and if it can be understood, and if it doesn't, we're going to have this conversation again and again, and I'm going to convince you that just the revenue of the state and spending must be balanced, nothing can grow forever, and that it is exactly the policy that we are doing. And I'd like you to back us up on something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u45	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Radek Koten, if I am not mistaken, is not in the O.R., so we will proceed to another interview and that is the interpelation of Mrs Iveta Štefanová. Mrs Monika Oborná will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority was planning a ban on the free sale of products containing canabidiol. These foods belong to a group of so - called novel foods. New foods may not be sold on the market until their safety is verified and approved by the Food Safety Authority. On the Czech market we see in free sale without any regulation a variety of different foods and products with different high content of this substance. Please note that the effects of canabidiol on the human organism are not yet fully known. These are mainly effects on the liver, the effects on the nervous system and the psyche. Until these effects are explored, the safety of the use of such products is not guaranteed and therefore it is not possible to sell them freely without any regulation, as we can see in the streets of Prague literally on every corner. But the government working group decided not to do the ban, and instead, it will look for a way to grant an exemption for CBD. I ask, why does the government go against the proper intention of a food inspection and for what reason did you decide to continue selling food without regulation before their safety is verified? Do you not care about the safety of food and products sold on our market and the safety of our citizens?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u47	Thank you for keeping time. Now Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u48	I will not forgive myself if I am sorry that Mr Koten is not here today. This is one of the most graciously intersecting Members, and it would be good if his interpellation to road signs today were heard here. But I will answer Mrs Štefanová's question to CBD, of course. Yes, there are products in the food market in the Czech Republic that contain the substance canabidiol - CBD, which is obtained either from the hefty hemp, or is obtained synthetically and appears here in various forms: oils, tintures, jelly, sweets, candy and so on. Many people use CBD to suppress anxiety, relieve pain, insomnia, and so on. There is a need to distinguish between CBD and THC. These substances are similar, they actually have an almost identical structure, but the crucial difference is that CBD, unlike THC, is not one of the intoxicating and psychoactive substances. CBD is therefore legal - this is important - without psychoactive effects and is not addictive. There are also studies from 2018. A study by the World Health Organization has been published showing that CBD does not exhibit any effects that would lead to abuse or build dependence on this compound. It is important that CBD products that are here on the market do not in any way contain THC, so there is no need for a prescription or anything similar. There's no age limit either. Where CBD is sold in the Czech Republic is long-term legal. The CBD mates, or whatever it's called in that language, those who use it are about 50 in the Czech Republic. What you are referring to is that, according to the European Union Regulation 2015/2283 on novel foods, foods - and this is important - containing CBD are considered to be so-called novel foods, meaning that they were not consumed to a significant extent in the countries of the European Union before 15 May 1997. That doesn't mean they're harmful. This only implies that these are new foods and that they were not consumed to a significant extent before 1997. Such foodstuffs shall not be re-entered unless their safety is checked by the Food Safety Authority and authorised for placing on the European Union market. This is the 2015 Regulation. In the middle of April this year, the European Commission published a statement that food with CBD cannot be marketed in any country of the European Union because it is not sufficiently scientifically studied for its effects on human health. That's what you need to respond to. This opinion of the Commission has produced a number of responses. There are 190 applications already to the European Union for these new foods. Some have already been recognised as valid by the Commission - about twenty of them, the statistics are quite clear - that they meet both formal and content issues, and currently the safety of these products is assessed by the European Food Safety Authority. Now there is a market in the Czech Republic, there is a long time here, for some products even before 1997. If all CBD products, cannabis extracts, were to immediately fall into a ban without thinking about it, we would hit a whole range of users - they are seniors, let's not imagine, there is no narcotics element, people use it for their health - as well as a number of Czech entrepreneurs. That is why we have agreed that the working group will first examine the procedure, propose how we should proceed with this, then, of course, proceed to a decision that will be consistent with this European procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Are you interested in an additional question? [[No.]] You don't, so we're going to interpel Mrs Monika Oborná, and President Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, my intervention will be directed towards a consolidation package, specifically as regards the abolition of the tax exemption for the daily press, or newspapers, which means moving the newspaper to the proposed basic rate of 21 percent. You justified the zero rate on books by the fact that there are textbooks. You justified the reduced rate on magazines by the fact that there are scientific magazines, and since the newspapers probably don't print any wisdom, you fooled them with the highest VAT. As a result, various, we can say science books or lifestyle magazines will be sold with a government discount while people pay extra for traditional journals. As the President of the Board of Directors of the Union of Publishers Libuše Šmuclerová points out, this step effectively constitutes a threat to the existence of newspapers in the Czech Republic. Why am I asking this and why am I saying this? You should realize that printed journals have always been the opposite of disinformation websites. They are supported by institutional publisher, specific editors, and mainly responsibility for content both in front of readers and in front of the law. So I want to ask you, Prime Minister, whether the increase in VAT to newspapers is an expression of your government's promise to support free media, or is it an expression of your government's promise to combat misinformation? At the same time, I would like to know what types of newspapers the increased VAT rate will concern, whether it is only printed journals, or will the reader's access to locked digital content also be taxed? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u51	Thank you. The Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala will respond. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u52	We need to look at the whole logic of how value added tax is drawn up and how we approach these two rates or how we approach value added tax in general. Value added tax has a basic rate and then has reduced rates. It already means that, in principle, everything is to be at the basic rate unless there are good reasons for it to exist or for us to put it in a reduced rate. Some countries, I admit there aren't many, there's one in Europe, they have one rate of value added tax, I think it's Denmark, and there's just everything at that one rate. We had two rates, then we had three rates, and now we're trying to simplify the system so it has two rates. The papers were at the 15% rate, then they were at the 10% rate and so he could continue. Magazines, we can talk about this. So the basic idea is, everything is at the base rate, where social and other reasons are found, so it goes to the lower rate. That's why we put food on the lower rate, which is why we put, for example, construction works that lead to the creation of new housing, which is why there are medical aids and medicines - health aids were at 15%, medicines at 10%, together it will lead to a reduction in the amount that citizens will pay for medicines and medical aids. We have taken a decision on books that is not because there are scientific books, and we do not make any distinction. Just books, also in terms of the Czech society's role in this regard, also in terms of the fact that in other countries there is often an exceptional exception and the zero rate, so we decided to take this step. In the case of magazines, they could also be at a 21% rate, in the basic one, but there are a lot of titles that are needed for minorities or they are cultural magazines, they are scientific magazines, they are literary magazines and so on, and for this reason we have decided that magazines will be at that reduced rate. Yes, there's a logical question, and why does it apply to lifestyles and porn magazines, I don't know what I've heard before in this debate? Well, if it could be easily distinguished, then we can do it, but should we establish another office that will assess whether the magazine has five articles of expertise, or just two, whether the content that is lifestyle prevails there, or whether the content is professional? We just don't want to set up an institution like this. So here in these magazines it's a certain tax - in quotes tax - for simplifying the system and basic logic - the basic tax reduced. We clearly did not agree with the newspaper that there were grounds for the reduced rate. Let's not be frightened, please, by some kind of threat to the freedom of the press or anything like that. Citizens receive information in various ways from completely free access to free media through various other media. I do not diminish the importance of media and printed media, I just don't think freedom of speech has anything to do with what value added tax is there. Finally, when you look at the evaluation of freedom of the press in the Czech Republic, at the time of our government's work, it has grown against the previous period and we belong to one of the world's leading places in this matter. But really, let's not mix freedoms and fight misinformation with what kind of value added tax exists. The logic of the system is clear - the basic rate and reduced. I don't want to think about it any further, and it's pointless, but we're gonna make the citizens cheaper with that lower VAT rate a number of things they use every day, such as food. Some things will rise slightly, such as the daily press, but this tax reduction, VAT on food, will compensate households richly. So let's not be scared and take the logic of the simplified tax system, two VAT rates - basic, reduced. There must be very strong reasons after the reduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u53	Thank you, there is no more interest in the supplementary question. So we will proceed to another interview by President Radim Fiala and prepare Mr Radek Vondráček later. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u54	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the Ministry of Defence's management. You might ask why I'm asking you - I'd ask Secretary Černochová, but she's either not here or she's not answering the same question. He will not be here today, either, because he is going to sign the DCA agreement on foreign troops' residence in the Czech Republic, with which the SPD absolutely disagrees. You - and why I turn to you - have approved here that you will increase your defenses or funds in defense by about 35 billion to 2 percent of GDP, that is, for the idea of about 110 billion to 145 billion crowns. We disagree, and we say you'd better give the money to the pensioners you're taking it from. Maybe it's because you need to put them somewhere else. But let's see how you can't manage even the $100 billion you have in defense. After the outbreak of the conflict, you said how you would modernize, how our army is underfunded, how modern it should be, which I fundamentally agree with. So let's see how you repay our soldiers the debt, the underfinancing you've been talking about since the beginning of the war in Ukraine. You're unable to compete with a single event. The only thing you guys have done is finish the contracts that Babišův's government has done. We thought they were bad too, overpriced machine guns and stuff. And now you haven't been able to compete at all! So I'm asking how you're gonna do it, what are you gonna do with the money? Why don't you give them to the elderly? Why do you have almost 150 billion there, and you're not able to compete at all? I'm asking you, Prime Minister, if you even know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u55	Thank you for keeping time and now the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala has the floor. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u56	Firstly, it is certainly not possible to build expenditure on the security and defence of the Czech Republic against pensioners. Pensioners or seniors, those who are retired, who grow, will continue to be valorized. In our government, the difference between average wage, average pension, and average wage from 40 to 50 per cent has been reduced, with a net wage of more than 60 per cent. The Valorisation will proceed, the average pension will reach CZK 20,000, so at the expense of seniors in this country nothing is happening and seniors are at the heart of our government's attention because they worked honestly in their lives and now they can't help themselves, so it's right that their pensions are rising. State security and defence are an absolutely important task for every country, and it is also a task for every government. I agree with you that this was a problem with the acquisitions, that we did not care enough in the past period to put enough into defense, that we did not care enough to modernize the army, but that is not the problem of our government, because we are doing these steps. And you yourself confirmed that we're prepared to invest the funds in defense. I just want it not to cause any confusion here, because the second SPD representative repeats it: the contract signed by the Minister in the United States does not mean anything automatic that could happen on the territory of the Czech Republic. All concrete steps will be under the control of Parliament. They must always be approved by both chambers of Parliament, just for the record. As far as defenses are concerned, we need to modernise our army, otherwise we will not only fail to meet our commitments in the North Atlantic Alliance, but we would jeopardize our own defence and security of our citizens, and I don't expect anyone to want that, and neither can the SPD. That is why, before Russia's aggression on Ukraine, we have committed ourselves to increasing the resources we are giving in defence to 2% of GDP by the end of the parliamentary term. [[15.50 hours]] In the light of current events, but also in view of the increase in defense spending in Europe, not only in the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also in other countries, we have decided to speed up our commitment and put the funds into defence at 2% in the next year. We still can't get to the front, because other countries are increasing defense spending, and that's good. That's not a waste of money somewhere, and it's at the expense of somebody. This is money that is well used to make our citizens feel safe and that the military can perform its functions. And the money, even those spent on acquisitions, serves Czech industry, Czech citizens, Czech jobs, Czech research, Czech science, and that is also important. In fact, well spent defense funds support other areas of life, and so we also approach it. That's why we're negotiating big contracts, which is why we're negotiating to modernize the army, whether it's infantry vehicles or fighters, which is why we're taking steps that will lead to our army having modern equipment that they fully deserve. And frankly, how are you going to do it any other way than put the money into it, put the money in it? This is a good investment and it is an investment in the future. Yes, year-on-year growth is very intense or very fast. It wouldn't have to be so fast if we had taken better care of our security and defense in the past, and if the percentage of GDP money we put into defense in the past was higher. It wasn't, so now we're applying, we're not abandoning responsibility, and we want to increase the funds quickly, and by 2024 we're going to be putting 2% of GDP in defense in the interests of the security of our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u57	Thank you and I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u58	Yes, Prime Minister, so one more time for you. You didn't negotiate anything! You promise to modernize the Czech army. I'm in. You didn't negotiate anything! So let me... You were talking about Czech science, Czech companies. I wonder if you're negotiating any offsets at all, if some of the weapons you're buying will be produced in the Czech Republic, because I believe that this is very important for our industry. We've always made a lot of guns and lots of parts of guns. I don't hear anything like that today. So I'm asking you to make this right, because if those companies that did this here in the Czech Republic were relying on you and your government to follow up, they would have gone bankrupt by now!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u59	Thank you for keeping time and with the Prime Minister's response again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u60	They negotiated, and even in record time, so some of these acquisitions are in the final stage. You can't talk about this here, but you'll know soon enough. And I can also assure you that we are thinking of the Czech industry. I was talking about it. Some of these things will also be produced in the Czech Republic, Czech companies will participate. In some cases, the share of Czech companies is in the tens of percent of the total acquisition, so you do not have to worry about this. We're thinking about it. As you've been told, well spent means of defense, it's not just that you're putting money somewhere. That's just it, and you have to negotiate it well, that's what we're working on, that's what we're doing, and we're already in the final phase. This means, among other things, that the Czech defence industry is involved. By the way, the Czech defence industry is becoming more and more successful. We are becoming a very strong country in this regard and in international comparison. Our companies in the field of defence industry are hiring new employees, creating new jobs, participating in research. It's not just traditional weapons, it's all weapons systems, including IT. Our companies are really at the forefront of this, they are also asked in the world and they are developing here and thanks to the space that we give as a government, really great potential for the Czech industry and the development of the defence industry strengthens our position as the most industrialized country in Europe, and I think that is correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u61	Thank you and we approach Mr Radek Vondráček's interpellation. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u62	Dear Prime Minister, I don't think you and I will need an entire time limit to respond to my intervention. It's basically very simple, and it's either yes or no. I would like to hear here whether you are defining yourself against the abolition of a unanimous vote within the European Union, whether you are in favour or against. Your video, when MEP Verhofstadt approached you as a small schoolboy, and not as a prime minister of a sovereign country, has circled the whole republic. Minister Bek did not in any way define himself for his chairing the General Affairs Council, if I say so exactly. The process was rather accelerated under our Presidency. His successor, Minister Dvořák, your minister of your government, even said he was in favour of abolishing unanimity. Your colleagues from the government, the pirát, Mr Lipavský, have never been privy to a unanimous vote. But is this your government, your responsibility, and I'm asking you, are you in favour or against? Can you express yourself clearly here, so we know where we stand, where the Czech Republic is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u63	Thank you for keeping the time and now for Prime Minister Petr Fiala's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u64	Definitely express yourself? For myself, yes, I'm against it, I say it repeatedly, and I'll keep saying it. Of course, we're part of the coalition government. It is logical that some political parties have a different view of some things, not even secretly. I think that reaching into the European Union's basic settings at the moment would not be right. My belief is that if this debate runs and let's not fight it, it's a good thing the debate is running. It is understood by many states that if the European Union is to expand, which is also in the interests of the Czech Republic, to expand the European Union, so that the voting mechanisms must be adjusted. That's what many states think. My position is not to interfere, but let's not defend the debate, that would also be wrong. If you're mentioning the video here, I don't know if it came from any of your MEPs, there wasn't my answer, and that's the misinformation on the video. I have clearly answered the honourable Member and I think I have answered very clearly. And keep your notes on the schoolboy! On the contrary, it might be good to look at where the YES movement, which now so vehemently defends the interests of Czech citizens in the European Union, is within the European political families in which you find yourself - if it is by chance not the faction that belongs to the most federalist and, from this point of view, the most progressive in quotation marks in Europe, and if what you say here at home corresponds to what you do or did in Brussels. The example -- and I've already presented it publicly to the public with evidence -- how you approached Green Deal and other things, it's obvious. So I hope that our rational, realistic position on the European Union will have your support, that we do not want to change the basic settings, but we want to do these things so that we effectively promote the interests of the Czech Republic, that it will have support across the political spectrum. I'm trying. I have already called two meetings for foreign policy, with opposition and European policy, despite the fact that despite your promises, during the Czech Presidency, you have called for a vote on distrust of the government. Nor will that discourage me from trying to have a dialogue with you, because I think it is good to have a basic consensus on foreign policy issues, but also on the key things that concern our position in the European Union. And I just hope that your MEPs, too, will support, for example, our efforts made by our government, and that is to make a significant adjustment to the upcoming Euro 7 standard in favour of our interests, our car industry, our citizens. We're very far away from these negotiations. I think we are in a position to win over similar-minded states, but it will be important that we also convince at least part of the Members of the European Parliament. And you have an opportunity because you are in a faction that has supported a number of measures in the past, which are certainly not in the interests of the Czech Republic. [[16.00 hours]] So here's the chance to fix it. Let's join forces and adjust the Euro 7 standard so that it does not threaten the mobility of our citizens and threaten our car industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u65	Thank you, and is there an interest in the supplementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u66	Thank you. That note about the schoolboy was more of a criticism of Mr Verhofstadt, not of you. But when you heard from me, I think I hit the black one. But back to some constructive debate. First of all, what will you do with your minister, who speaks to you in a completely different way than your opinion as Prime Minister? Secondly, do you agree with me that any change in unanimity is so crucial, whether it is the way of changing the basic treaties or perhaps voting, let us say that there will be a soft vote on some issues other than unanimously, whether you also believe that this is a fundamental change in the rules and conditions within the European Union, which, from my point of view, would deserve to be heard by all citizens of the Czech Republic in the referendum?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u67	Thank you for keeping time and now for the Prime Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u68	You didn't hit it black, but now that I've heard it a few times -- come on, I've never responded to it, so now I've responded. And I think it's so good that the truths are supposed to be corrected, and I'm glad we agree on this. There is nothing strange about the fact that some members of our government coalition have had a different view of the speed and intensity of any European action in the long run. That's just the way it is, we all know it, and so do the citizens. It is important that we agree on a common position in the outcome, and then, in Europe, if possible, in accordance with the opposition, because the more united we are in that European position, the more powerful we are then. I explained here why I don't think we should approach this change. I am even convinced that most Member States, now not talking about the European Parliament's level, will ultimately not support any such change for a number of different reasons. And I think that the covid crisis and, above all, the energy crisis clearly show us what is good when we have to reach agreement between all Member States and when we have to listen to the concerns, opinions, attitudes, experiences of individual Member States. These are my motives and my considerations as to why, perhaps, I think, we should not approach these changes, and certainly not without some thorough discussion. But we must see that there are a number of politicians in Europe, but also states that, on the contrary, make further enlargement subject to some sort of adjustment of decision-making mechanisms, and that is a debate that we must seriously focus on simply because the enlargement of the European Union has long been in the interests of the Czech Republic. It was a policy that virtually all governments have held lately. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u69	Thank you. It is 16 o'clock, so the time has passed when it was possible to submit an interview with the Prime Minister. What will follow are oral interpelations on other members and members of the government, and I call on Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská to present her intervention on the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, in order to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I have already noted that the administrative procedure in dealing with the application for a pension has only become something that the State does not have to or has to comply with. On the website of the Czech Administration it was possible to read that people have the maximum possible use of the possibility of submitting a pension application up to four months in advance. If I am not mistaken, it is not possible to submit an application more in advance, as this ensures a smooth transition to financial security in the form of a pension instead of a payout. It's an amazing recommendation if the length of the proceedings weren't longer than six months. The Czech administration also apologizes to clients for any complications associated with a long time of driving - fine, but that's about as much use to applicants for a pension. [[The MP is silent.]] Do you know that thanks to the procedure of the Czech administration and your department, pensioners receive reminders and threats of penalty payments from health insurance companies? Where did the communication and exchange of supporting documents for these payments between the resort, MPSV and insurance companies stop? And what about the apology of those who have relied on administrative proceedings and their deadlines, now that they've been out of income for over six months? You know, not all of them were able to create enough financial cushions when their income covered with the minimum reserve just their expenses needed for normal life - high cost of living, energy, food, medicines, costs of any services they had already had to use. The funds that the Czech Administration has not paid to clients for six months or longer have been deposited in a bank account? What is the interest on these outstanding pensions, and will you possibly pay for the regular pensioners the periodic penalty payments they are starting to require from the health insurance companies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u71	Thank you for keeping time and the Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u72	Hello, Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, fellow Members, I also responded to such an interview about two or three weeks ago. I have also commented on this situation publicly over the last month, and I am starting now with an apology, an apology for the Czech Social Security Administration and for the state itself, because it is true that we are in a situation where legal deadlines are not fulfilled, i.e. the 90-day legal period for when the amount of the pension is to be measured, so that a person can subsequently receive his payment. But it is also necessary to say the causes that have unfortunately led to this situation, and this is indeed a quite extraordinary situation in 2022, which has never occurred in this country in the last 30 years. I will remind you that in roughly more than 12 months, there were two proper valorisations, two extraordinary valorisations, and also a great deal of pressure on more applications, which came first and foremost in the fourth quarter of 2022, applications for early retirement. The increase is really, really obvious, because the values that were related to, for example, the burden of new pensions were somewhere below 200,000 in recent years, and now we have reached 249,000. And it has to be said that unfortunately, and that is one of the great reasons for this state of affairs that we are trying to deal with in these weeks, and especially colleagues at the Czech Social Security Administration, so that is the state in which the agenda for calculating pension measures is, when actually many people are surprised when I explain to them that it is not here that there is a simple software system that would be able to automatically, digitally evaluate data about what the earnings of those people who have been alternate or excluded times and the like, and measure pension as a simple IT system operation. Unfortunately, this is not in the 21st century. Unfortunately, in the last ten, fifteen, twenty years, very little has been done in the area of digitization of the pension agenda for the Czech Social Security Administration, and it is, of course, a matter which is also related to the priority of the previous ministers. We are in a situation today where, since last autumn, we have tried our best to strengthen staff capacity for calculating and determining pensions. It is not an easy agenda, it is not quite easy to take a person whom we can train for this agenda in a week to do a good job, a flawless job. So even though we've strengthened our capacity, yes, even in this situation, when I'm responding to this interpelation, we're late, and I've also said fair and square that unfortunately we'll still be a few weeks behind. But gradually, the large, accumulated volume of applications we manage gradually - the number - to decrease. I also repeatedly, and I say this now, said that if people are really in a situation where they are alone, they do not have the option of another income partner, husband, wife and so on, so when they are in a socially difficult situation and that money needs to be informed through the infoline or via e-mail communication on the management of the Czech Social Security Administration or Ministry that it is necessary for their pension to be measured in a very short period of time. In a very short time, we are able to prioritize these applicants and make an estimate in the order of one week, ten days. But even in this, to some extent, the capacity is limited. [[16.10 hours]] So we are trying, the management of the Czech Social Security Administration, to do our utmost in these matters. People are working overtime to prove this very unpleasant situation for the state, for the Czech administration, but especially for the people involved, their families, so that we can solve it as soon as possible. But I tried to tell a fair colleague here also the causes that led to the condition, and he also gave a clear answer to the fact that we are trying to do our utmost. As far as health insurance companies are concerned, I must say that this is something that should never happen. I also told my colleagues and colleagues that I consider it a big mistake that it was not communicated in time with the Health Department and health insurance companies so that such a challenge would not actually occur for people who have applied for a pension, and there was no threat at all from the penalty. And that's what we're dealing with here this week, so we can get rid of this problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u73	Thank you for keeping time, and I ask - the honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u74	Thank you. You know, Minister, thank you for your apology, but that really doesn't help some. It was a time or not the first time the Czech administration has missed. Even in earlier times, she did not manage to handle requests within the time limits prescribed by the law. In such cases, it has approached advances - advance payments of pensions, and I assume it has treated insurance companies in the same way. Why has such a solution not been accepted now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u75	Thank you for keeping time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u76	We have considered this question, however, with regard to the capacities that are virtually the same in this area, they are the same people who would also make the reserve decisions, so at this point, we would create an even bigger problem with an even bigger increase in time delays for those clients. It is one thing to measure our backups, to calculate the pension ratio as well, and then to account for them, so these are the other two operations that would occur to us here at this point, which is why we are trying to ask - yes, for a certain degree of understanding of our clients, our citizens, so that if the situations when they need the funds urgently, they are asked via the infoline or via the email communication of the ČSSS management and we are trying to get these requests out of priority. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u77	I, too, thank you for keeping the time, and before we approach Mrs Štefanová's interpelation, I will add an apology: Minister Zdeněk Nekula apologizes from 16 o'clock for working reasons. Mr Roman Kubíček can then prepare for Mrs Štefanová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u78	I also thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, I will divide my question into two parts. Otherwise, I will return to my interview with the Prime Minister on food containing canabidiol, and my question was technical, because the European Commission decided to include food containing this substance in novel foods, and there is a need to follow a certain procedure before placing it on the market or selling it on the market, approval by the Food Safety Authority. The answer that this is not happening and the exception is sought, in this case because it concerns too many companies and sellers, therefore I am not satisfied because the safety of food and those products should be superior to trade and its yield. So I just wanted to ask you how you're looking at it. The inclusion in new foods is for a reason, both because of the fact that, of course, the experience is some time, short time, not so long, and the effects on the organism are not yet fully known in all cases, so there is a reason why it is listed in this way. There I would like to know how you view this from the point of view of the Minister of Health and from the point of view of food safety. If this substance is used in various forms to treat various ailments, then I would rather imagine it in the inclusion of medicinal products than in foods, but so be it. That's where I'd like to know your opinion and your look. The second part would concern ever-increasing use, overuse of products with a kratom content, which is a directly active addictive substance, and still the sale is not regulated in any way, so I would also like to ask about this part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u79	Thank you very much for the time and the answer will be given by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u80	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna try to answer both parts of the question, and I'm a little sorry I'm gonna cough in the meantime, and I'm getting a little bit worse with an irritating cough. The first part of the question: we probably all know that cannabis contains a huge amount of alkaloids and CBD is one of them. It is an alkaloid that is used - or the substance is used - for therapeutic purposes, but it is not a medical device, it does not go through the approval process, it is not on the SÚKL list, it is not approved as many other products, so the term I used is not accurate. It is for these reasons that there was a discussion with the strict interpretation of the Ministry of Agriculture, because it is necessary to realise that a one-time quick ban would cause problems for many people who really do not use CBD, which is not an addictive substance - indeed is not an addictive substance. Neither in the European Union nor in individual countries of the European Union has there been a strict ban, but individual countries are looking for a way forward, and here the role of the Ministry of Health is clear. We have nominated a representative of the Ministry of Health, who will defend the interests of patients, although this is not a cure in the sense that he would be covered by health insurance, went through the standard EMA approval process and so on and so on. Without a doubt, we will look for a way to prevent those who use CBD for treatment from continuing because there is no strong reason, even from the medical community. Kratom, that's a different story. Cratoma is a plant, we know natural origin, when the plant is extracted from crushed powder, it is then used. He has relaxing effects but also carries the risk of developing addiction. The publications on this subject are, say, not entirely in agreement, how strong the risk is and how large it is, but are in agreement that it exists. This risk is especially evident in the young generation, unfortunately, even in the under 18 years of age, which uses crap, and thus competes with other addictive substances. According to the Customs Administration's information, the import of kratoma into the Czech Republic moves monthly in the order of tonnes, which is why the drug coordinator, Mr Vobořil, promised the government that he would prepare a draft legislation which should be submitted to a commentary procedure in May. Of course, we like to participate in this, we will be happy to comment on it. If we do not find any way to implement this legislation quickly, which, of course, must restrict sales, must restrict vending machines and a number of other things in my opinion, but now it is my private opinion primarily as a doctor, so I am prepared to propose to the government the inclusion of kratoma on the list of addictive substances, although I do not think that this is an entirely optimal solution, until the legislation is available and approved by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and adopted by the President, so I prefer to have a shortcut on the list of addictive substances and completely prohibit its sale. It's not a solution that I'm happy about, but there's a need to look for a solution and not step on the ground. I don't know any other quick solution. A similar problem is solved by all countries of the European Union, treated in different ways, approached in different ways, and without a doubt we need to find a situation to protect, above all, those under 18 years of age, for which this substance can become addictive and can lead to complications of its use. I guess that's about it for your interpellation from my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u81	Thank you. I wonder if the honourable Member is interested in an additional question? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u82	Thank you for your answer. I'll add for myself that I don't want to work, and I'm not even a representative of some strict ban on canabidiol-containing food, not at all. It was purely a technical matter that just some regulation tells us that we need approval, and I'm gonna read that we're trying to get around it. And frankly, I'm not satisfied that too many people are using it. On the contrary, that should be the main reason that too many people are using it, so the procedure should be followed as it is right. I'm going to ask you, what time is the future solution, what time are we talking about?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u83	Thank you for keeping time. With a reaction, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u84	CBD doesn't use too many people, but it's used by a lot of people for therapeutic purposes. And if any other substance with a decision of any organ, no matter what, becomes practically day to day when I overdo it, suddenly by food, we need to think about it, if we are responsible as doctors, that there are a number of patients who are simply taking it, and therefore there must be some solution, and that is what all the countries of the European Union are looking for. The problem is that the agreement of lawyers is not as clear as the interpretation, let's say. Some lawyers feel that the directive is quite clear and binding that it is therefore a directive, others have a different interpretation. It's really in the Department of Agriculture, not health care. And I just pointed out to the government that I'm interested in how we're going to provide for patients who actually have this substance to make it available, nothing more, nothing less. That's my role as Minister of Health. For the record, the horizon is May. I expect we'll have some material in May. [[Member's response: This May?]] Of course, yes, the moon is simply determined, it's always a problem to define that year, I understand that. May 2023, I mean this month. I suppose we'll have some material available this month, some kind of work run, hopefully we'll get it officially. Either we agree that we are able to present the material to the Chamber of Deputies in a rapid horizon, then I am ready to wait. If it turns out that there is a need to discuss the material further and it would apply, say, in some longer term, then I am prepared to propose the inclusion of the kratoma in the list of addictive substances. And then the question is, how will the government vote, individual ministers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u85	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček will speak with further intervention, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, Minister, my interpelation will be quite simple and it will be such a brainstorming in the global, because, as you all have noticed, Malina Group, which offered the largest amount of photovoltaic installations for households and roofs, remains behind it debts, unfinished installations, and it is not the only company I can name other companies, but it appears on the market. And I was wondering if we could look for a common solution for these people? I know they should read contracts, they should somehow legally embrace them, but look for a solution to make it happen to other people. I remember a warning that did not take place within Bohemia Energy and Mr Písařík, where, in fact, 1.5 million clients fell into a trap. I didn't know whether to interpel you or the Minister of the Environment because it's related to the subsidy. People today from bad company are also connected in places where they're not connected to the network, they don't know it at the time, and if they're not connected to the network, they don't get the subsidy. That's the first thing. The second thing, the granting of subsidies offered by companies should be controlled and regulated in some way - and I don't know if it is the Ministry of Industry and Trade or the Ministry of the Environment - but in the global do some mechanism - and again I answer, I don't know him at this time and we can talk about it, I will be very happy to help - to make the firmness of these companies work. I know it was once in the housing process, so there had to be some certifications that allowed the subsidy to be granted to the company - whether such a solution would not be appropriate for the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u87	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela will respond. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on Mr Kubíček's oral interview on the problems with photovoltaics. But I would actually like to thank you for the interpellation, because it's one of those interpellings that can help us in things like education, such as preventing problems. Indeed, it concerns the current situation where, based on the problems of some companies installing solar power plants and photovoltaic panels, a number of citizens and households who do not have completed those power plants on their homes are in a difficult situation and are threatened by the funds they have put together to install resources for some companies installing solar panels. To begin with, I would like to say that last year we saw an increase of 262 % in the number of applications for new photovoltaic power plants and 366 percent in their capacity. By 2023, according to current figures by April, these record values can be assumed to be further exceeded in the new annual record. Unfortunately, as in any field that has a boom, unfair practices may occur in the minority of suppliers. Our aim is therefore to contribute to the protection of customers and to avoid discrediting the PV market. We and the Czech Trade Inspection have prepared ten councils. It is actually an update, because the advice has already been given, but we have updated it to help customers prevent similar practices. We have now included among the councils how to select a reliable company, what conditions to negotiate or how to proceed when the supplier company does not comply with the terms of the contract. We have published the above ten pages on the website of our Ministry and on the special website, which we have established, on which this information is available, as well as information on how to save energy. We'll continue to spread it through other routes. This methodology will be available to EKIS energy consultants, who are already advising customers with subsidies to install photovoltaics on cooperation to improve awareness, let's call it solar literacy. We are currently negotiating with the Czech Banking Association. Through our established information line 1212 we will also ask for the dissemination of this desatra of the mayor of cities and municipalities and this line will, of course, be available to everyone with consumer advice. Furthermore, in agreement with the control authorities, more intensive checks are carried out on the products themselves with suppliers. On the other hand, I must mention that the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, for example, does not have the legal option of forcing entrepreneurs to start work or to return money to consumers. We simply cannot enter into the contractual relations of two parties. The court may order the consumer to return the money exclusively. It is still possible to use out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes. The Czech Trade Inspection Authority can focus on the products themselves, whether they are okay, whether they meet the requirements of marketing and the like. We are also trying to coordinate further actions with representatives of the renewable energy sector, such as the Renewable Sources Chamber and the Accumulation and Photovoltaic Guild, so that the current situation regarding unfair practices of some companies that have used the interest of the Czech public in solar panels in their favour does not harm the reputation of photovoltaics in the eyes of the public and our citizens, as it is an important part of the decarbonisation of Czech energy and the basic source of renewable resources that can be used in the Czech Republic without problems and thus contributes to the development of renewable resources. [[16.30 hours]] Otherwise, as far as advice is concerned for clients who have already gotten into the problem, so if the reminder procedure has not helped, it is necessary to contact the courts by means of a lawyer or law enforcement authorities. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u89	Minister, thank you. He will give you an opportunity, through an additional question, to answer that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u90	Yes, that's exactly how it's gonna be. I'll just do one thing. If you're going to post it on the website, I think it would be good to post it on the Green Savings website because those people go there first because they get the information on where it's drawn. So if the advice was there, it'd be pretty cool. And then again, when you finish telling me what you wanted to tell me, then the question related to connecting those places, because I've already seen the interactive map that CEZ has, which E.ON has, and there are municipalities that have no chance of installing photovoltaics, and those citizens don't really know. This, too, is a matter that could be connected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u91	Thank you and room for the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u92	If it's about the connection issue. Connecting photovoltaics that cause power surges from photovoltaics to distribution networks is not easy in areas where network capacity is already exhausted. It will always depend on whether the relevant distribution system operator with whom the interconnection contract is concluded will have sufficient capacity at the connection point. We're mapping it. There are already cases that in some areas - and this is primarily the South of Bohemia and Moravia - this capacity is exhausted and the supply flows to the network will not be allowed by the distributor. The distributors therefore plan to strengthen the distribution system. However, it is usually a long-term investment from a time point of view. The amendment to the OZE II Energy Act, which is now in the legislative process, contains new provisions to reduce speculative requests - because there are speculative requests for connection to the distribution system - according to which it will be possible to cancel the reservation of power or the reservation of power, provided that the connection applicant has provenly failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the connection. This Lex OZE II also introduces a new obligation for distribution system operators in order, inter alia, to increase the transparency of the process of connecting new manufacturers to the distribution system. Where the source is to be found to be unconnected due to a lack of capacity or to a threat to the safety and stability of the distribution system, the operator shall demonstrate this in writing to the applicant and, to a reasonable extent, provide supporting evidence by providing relevant source data and calculations. At the same time, the distribution system operator is required to refuse and so on and so forth. [[Time, please.]] [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u93	That's right. That's right, Minister, I have to measure everyone equally. And we will proceed to another interview, namely Mrs Lenka Knechtová, and then Mr Aleš Juchelka will intersect. So please, Madame, take your words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u94	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I am addressing you on the issue of lack of places in kindergarten and primary schools. The municipalities are trying to address this situation. However, they cannot finance project documentation and the construction of kindergartens and primary schools entirely from their budget, and therefore they are keenly looking for an offer for possible subsidy aid. It is not only a problem in small municipalities, but also in municipalities with extended scope it is that the construction of a primary school after two classes in the year ranges to approximately CZK 250 million, which is a quarter of a billion. Dear Minister, you are planning more significant changes in capacity and more effective planning and building of school infrastructure. So how will you implement this goal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u95	Thank you and I give the floor to the Minister of Education. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question, because it comes, of course, when the Czech public is rightly concerned about the capacity situation of both primary and maternity schools as well as secondary schools. I don't think it's appropriate from this point of view to look for the culprits of these particular situations, but I think it's a good idea to recall the settings that led to the situation that I described as a crisis at the press conference. We have created a system in which municipalities are responsible for primary schools to an extent that is internationally unusual. We have created a system where since the creation of regions, the founders of secondary schools in the region and at state level we have competence in principle indirect, some in the area of funding, and now we are in a situation where in some regions, in some parts of the Republic both physical infrastructure is not enough, and we are also facing a problem that is related to the fact that supply, for example, of secondary schools does not correspond to demand. The solution to such a situation is not entirely simple. After all, you pointed that out, Madame. The construction of new schools or kindergartens takes many years, so today's situation is basically the result of decisions made sometime five years ago in terms of capacity implementation, and it turns out that a system that is decentralised and where the central government actually invests more or less in some subsidy schemes according to the immediate situation is simply not enough and leads to dysfunctions that we now see not only in Prague and its surroundings, but also in Brno and its surroundings to a certain extent or around other larger cities, where population development is combined, population growth of 15-year-olds, with migration trends that are taking place in rings around large cities. I have dealt intensively with this situation before I joined my current role, and I am aware that it is necessary to stabilise the system and it will be financially difficult. We need to take some short-term measures. This is mainly aimed at the situation around secondary schools, and it was not exactly the content of the question, but it is also important because in Prague, around Prague and in some other areas we are facing this problem. As far as elementary schools are concerned, the situation may be even more serious, because in some areas entry into the first classes will be very problematic from the point of view of driving distance of children and there is, of course, even more complicated - while high school students still manage transport by public transport, it is much more complicated for first graders. So my response to medium- or long-term is something I have already presented in my priorities and what I am discussing with political representation, I have to say across the political spectrum, because any action in this area must go beyond this government's term of office. I believe that the sensible way is to create a State Fund for Education Infrastructure, which, as in the field of transport or the environment, would, in a systematic way, invest in restoring, possibly expanding and planning the use of school infrastructure. I am convinced that there is now a very attractive opportunity for us to start this fund from the money we can borrow from the European Union as the Czech Republic under the Resurrection and Resistance Instrument. And here is the opportunity to start some moderating element in that system, which apparently is failing at all levels at this point, both in kindergarten and primary and secondary schools. This assumes a real political consensus, I seek it. I started negotiations with all key actors both at regional level - we will meet with regional representatives next week on Thursday to discuss these trips. Instant solutions are, of course, limited by different legislative limits as far as secondary schools are concerned, but as far as I know based on negotiations with councillors, Central Bohemia, Prague, South Moravia, where the situation is most dramatic, takes steps to ensure that demand is met as best as possible, even though admission procedures take a long time and logically by setting up a large disappointment part of students. [[Time, please.]] At primary schools, I think it is necessary to work with municipalities where the situation is critical. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u97	Thank you. The Member obviously wants to ask an additional question, so it will be possible to complete it, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u98	Minister, thank you. I am, of course, from the beautiful sunny South Moravia, so I can confirm that the municipalities have long tried to expand capacity within their capabilities, but today we are in a situation when in kindergarten, when you have 28 children per classroom, except, there is simply no place left to take. And until the construction work and the price of everything began to increase significantly, it was still somehow possible in the framework of, for example, marriage schools, schools to stop, but now we are really in a crisis situation and it is necessary for the Ministry of Education to somehow enter the communication, and I will say, even within the finance framework, maybe a little bit took advantage of the above-standard approach in cooperation with, for example, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so that the buildings that are built could be used by municipalities in the future for example for social services or libraries to serve the public and in various ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u99	Thank you, and the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u100	Thank you. I actually agree with that. I think that we must also consider new solutions that have not yet been on the table, for example, the state fund could own part of the infrastructure directly and offer to use municipalities or regions according to how it develops in the demographic location. I have also been through some experience in the last few weeks of negotiating around union schools, and I am aware that volunteering is not an entirely simple principle and that we will also have to look for ways to intervene in some areas in a more straightforward way. So thank you for the debate, and I'll be happy to work with you on the solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u101	Thank you, too, and another interviewer is Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u102	Thank you so much, thank you so much for the floor. I would also like to appreciate the government's efforts to respond to interpelations and that the ministers are here, so thank you. Dear Minister, the professional public has recently been introduced to your concept of the new Family Support Act. The new concept was thrown overboard by threatened children. Not all vulnerable children can be placed in foster families and mainstream schools. The concept swept away the table of work done by children's homes, children's homes with school, educational institutes and diagnostic institutes. Their activities are based on the pedagogical process; this care cannot be replaced by social services. The more educated the child walks out of institutional care, the more chance he has of integrating into society and succeeding in it. In addition, preventive care is better in recent days or years, there are more alternatives to working with the child and not putting it into institutional care immediately. Children who have failed repeatedly have been brought into institutional care. Apparently, you don't know their composition at the Ministry. These children are not able to attend the regular type of schools, have serious disorders and are not prepared for this. I believe that the Ministry should not compete with the constitutions. It should deal with situations before and also after the work of the institutions, work with the family so that the child has somewhere to possibly return. Minister, my question is: What are your immediate intentions in this area and are you listening to such radical changes to the professional public? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u103	Thank you for your question and the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u104	Thank you. Hello. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, Member, thank you for the interview. I, of course, very carefully and with great, say, intensity, am dealing with my colleagues and colleagues on this issue, because it is an issue which, from the whole area, let's say, the Department of Labour and Social Affairs concerns the most vulnerable group, namely children. We are in a situation today where we have not made any decision on how these changes will be implemented. We have put together teams of experts, today roughly the total volume of these people or institutions that are involved in preparing these changes here, they are roughly 160 representatives of various, say, organizations or also representatives of municipalities, cities, regions and so on, so that we can really evaluate the current state of affairs as it works. And here I think we have to admit that the system isn't working well. In general, I think it has great scope for significant improvement in the care of children at risk in the Czech Republic. What I want to focus primarily on is the issue of prevention, support and cooperation with families so that we start where motherhood, parenthood and, for example, management of housing, need to be improved and promoted, because it is sad when children are taken away because of the issue of poor and inadequate housing, or children are taken away because of the economic situation of parents. These are two very important things where the state has to improve the system a lot. And then, of course, it's parental competence. So I really want to devote a lot of energy to this area in those changes that we want to prepare. And then, of course, also look at the individual institutes that are here, which so far cover the needs of children in the Czech Republic, and here I think there is also a great deal of room for improvement. When we look at how children's homes, educational institutions, diagnostic institutes work, I think that in many of these devices it is possible - or in many types of these devices - to make a good transformation process. We see that the regions that have gone in this direction, such as the Pardubice region, where 80 percent of children from standard homes, such as children's homes, have been able to transform them into facilities that are very close to the family environment, where five, six children in a group are needed, and which is also in the premises that are very close to the normal family home, to the normal functioning of the family, and I do not think that we can say in many existing institutions today. At the same time, I want these organisations to be able - the transformed ones - to focus even better on working with the biological family, with parents, because I think that we also have more room to improve that, where possible, these children will be able to successfully return to our family with greater chances after very well realized social work, which is very important, for example, with parents, in order to be able to ensure income, housing, to deal with addiction issues and so on. I am aware that this is a very sensitive thing, I do not want to take any rash steps, no senseless revolutions. I want to make a good evolutionary change in favour, especially in favour of children, and we will work very closely on this as with the municipalities, with the regions that are mostly affected today in principle, because in that system they are the regions that are the founders of the vast majority of these facilities, and so that we can do these things wisely, I am counting on very close cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I don't have the ambition here to say there has to be something under one founder's roof, that's for debate, of course, but it's important to me how we change the system inside, how we change it for the better. So these are the answers I can give at this point, but from the point of view of specific parameters, there's no option or anything decided, we're at the beginning of the expert debate and we're going to continue it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u105	Thank you, as well as for keeping time. With an additional question, the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u106	Thank you so much for your answer, too. This is indeed a very sensitive matter, but part of the professional public is just some of the steps that do not seem to be sensitive at first, I would say, disfigured. We're not talking about kids who are in normal foster homes that can be adopted or foster care. We are really talking about increasing the number of children with psychiatric diagnosis, children with severe behavioral disorder that are aggressive, and in many cases children who go beyond the law. These children require really high staff expertise - pedagogical, psychological, and so on - and at present, teachers must meet special education in the facilities, for example, to demonstrate their psychic capacity. [[of which:]] So I would be very happy, and thank you for treating this very sensitively, very cautiously, because these are endangered children, and also please be very sensitive to how we will change the OSPODs. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u107	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in a reaction? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u108	I'm going to add that and I'm going to react a little bit, because I think here we actually agree quite well that we see that this is really a very sensitive area where all reckless steps can mean irreparable damage. And I have one more thing to add. I mentioned here cooperation with the Ministry of Education, which is extremely important, as is the importance of cooperation with the Ministry of Health and it is also important to remind the Ministry of Justice. I want to work much more closely at the level of, for example, among the OSPOD staff, educators, doctors-pediators, preventists of crime, but also with judges who deal with this issue in district and higher types of courts, because I think that here it is so that sometimes, in some territories, thanks to the good deployment of specific people, the cooperation is very good, they are very competent people with good decisions, and somewhere I think that sometimes there is a little lack of good competence and sometimes lack of rope and communication between actors who, if they worked well together, would be able to look for better procedures and faster for the benefit of children - let's also put it to the point, there is a big problem of speed, or slowness, when the child decides and the decision-making processes last for several years, so these are irreparable damage that may occur. So these are other things that I want us to be able to focus on together, and I would be very happy if we could consult on this subject at a working level, prepare at the level of cooperation between the government coalition and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u109	Thank you. I will draw up an apology that has passed in the meantime, namely, Vice-President Věra Kovářová from 16:45 a.m. she apologizes for personal reasons. And we can approach Mr Richard Brabec's interpellation, whom I do not see present in the hall, or the interpellation is failing. We will approach Mr Janulík's intervention and prepare Mr Karel Rais. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u110	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, this is not a delayed birthday present, but I congratulate you. [[With laughter.]] Of course, I took the subject that bothers us. We're memorials, so we know what overtime means in health care. We know we can't do it without overtime. We know that a few years ago, an EU regulation, which, as it were, only brings back the 150 hours instead of 416, to which we were accustomed, and so we have crossed richly over our years. And, of course, I'm intersecting because he's turning to me - especially the burning of a young doctor. A new generation of young people in general, and not only in our profession, has time for the most valuable commodity, not money, but especially time. Of course, it's easier to deal with in large devices, much harder to deal with in smaller devices. I have an idea of how this is dealt with elsewhere in the European States, but I just want to at least hear from the orientation if we have a vision of a solution. This may not go day by day, of course, because it would mean a huge personnel burden, but some vision and something to work with and communicate with. So that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u111	Thank you and the Prime Minister and Minister of Health will respond. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Interpelation should be with some purpose and meaningful, and I will, by your means, allow it, because Miloš and I are classmates, with a Member, by your means, classmates, so I will answer in two levels, in the first instance, the political answer, and then we would move to a less formal level, if you please, in the answer. [[With laughter.]] The fact is, there's no massive breach of the Labour Code, but the fact is, somebody's breaking the Labour Code. That's a stumbling block. If it is organized, it violates the Labour Code and it is a directly managed organization, of course I have to intervene, and I have done that after dealing with young doctors, with LOK, with trade unions, I have repeatedly written a letter to faculty hospital directors saying that we insist on keeping the Labour Code. I think we can all agree here that either we change the Labour Code or we insist on following it, whether from employers or employees. If there's a point to a code of work, it should be respected. If it turns out there's something in it that's not right, let's change it, that's why we're here, after all. There is definitely a need to oppose systematic organized regular violations of the Labour Code, but I do not have any signals that this is happening. But, of course, there are cyclically different voices, and I'm very intense about the voices. There are standard mechanisms to prevent violations of the Labour Code, and we use them. Every employee, and I would like to stress this, has the opportunity to turn to the workplace of the Labour Inspectorate and announce the possibility of violating the Labour Code. At the same time, this can be dealt with by a trade union organisation within its employer and it is necessary to use these routes. In general, I have no information from practice that there has been any systematic major breach of the Labour Code. I don't want to name a specific hospital where I had such information in direct-controlled offices, but there we sort of resolved everything after we talked to the union organization and explained the steps that need to be changed. This is generally related to a pause for lunch so-called and so on. I completely understand, and after all, my son is a doctor, so he is a young doctor, that the possibilities that are now open to all the world and everyone would like to use the opportunities for education for the very right purposes. On the other hand, medicine isn't just work, it's kind of a mission, and it's very difficult to secure - and now I'm getting into the plane that, by your means, we both probably understand - it's very hard to imagine when I have a patient who has, for example, brain aneurysm, and here I need to do enough performance to guarantee that the quality of the boiling - and I'm an interventional radiologist on the board of intervention radiology, but I still wouldn't dare do this. In order to guarantee that the performance is going to be good, I just have to do enough of those performances. In order to do enough of them, there can be no more of us who make them, and even in large workplaces there are two, maximum three doctors who can do that performance, and from logic the doctors must be available 24 hours, 7 days a week and it is a big problem that has no alternative. Let's remember heart attacks, when I need a huge manual skill and a number of performances that I can remelge into my own performance. Consider strokes and mechanical thromboectomy. After all, consider the entire transplant program, which is often built on one or two transplant surgeons, and therefore the results are good as they are. On the other hand, the transplant surgeon pays a great price, and the fact that it is often available on weekends, all the time, and practically doesn't have much time off. It is very hard to combine with some other types of professions as the Labour Code applies. And I can do a few things, one of which I started to discuss with the Committee of Professional Companies, and I would like to strengthen financially and financially move some of the funds where the workplaces really provide 7/24, and where they really do what actually saves tens and hundreds, maybe thousands of people's lives by being at work longer than, say, absolutely necessary. And for that, all the paramedics need to be thanked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u113	Thank you and is there an interest in complementary? Yeah, there's gonna be a question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u114	Thank you for your answer. That's basically satisfying. I see, of course, that there is a cross between the interests or the logic of things - we are from a generation, I normally showed 300 hours a month, but also at 30 I was really well erudized. And today, if anyone wants to work only 160 hours a month, they can't reach the erudition in our field, so there should be an exception. But the truth is, we didn't have much choice. Today they have a choice, but I still think that money is motivational, and that if a top surgeon like that lasts, this deployment here, for years, should be enough to secure it. [[17,00 hours]] I'm glad to hear that now I can say to them: Well, if you do, of course, not everything can be paid with money, because the time you don't spend with your family will never come back, but it's just a tax for choosing the profession we've chosen, and that's just the way it is. But I was satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u115	Thank you. With the Minister's response, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u116	Thank you once again, by your means, Madam President, for the intervention. Here you have to realize also variant B. Variant B are exchange operations, three-shift operations. Now I will speak from my many years of experience as Deputy Head of the Brno University Hospital, when we were at workplaces, where only a little bit of it was possible, did not introduce a full three-shift operation, but we introduced some variants of three-shift operation and we started working much more with the fact that some doctors in those large hospitals have a part-time time at the hospital and a part-time at the medical school. We enabled them to do so - and we allow them to do so, and we need to thank them for that - so that they would be free after the night shift. That's what I think needs to be done. The time when, by your means, Madam President, you and I started and when we came to work on Friday morning and went home at four o'clock on Monday afternoon after the weekend service to come on Tuesday the next day, the time is gone and it is good that it is gone. On the other hand, we really need to ensure a high-quality triple-shift operation, we need to ensure quality care for patients, and for some performances and for some areas of medicine we cannot do anything other than concentrate if it needs to be ensured, 7/24, that it will concentrate into a limited group of health professionals, not only doctors but also non-medical professionals. There it often leads to the need to use, say, services, services, and overtime hours. On the other hand, I see a huge scope in introducing telemedicine, which could help in many ways, and I consider this to be one of my fundamental priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u117	I also thank you, and I will just note that the members of the government do not have to address me through other Members. We are now going to interpel Mr Karel Rais and prepare Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u118	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Have a good day, everyone. It already sounds a bit cliché that our education is developing mostly weaknesses and the strong kind of leaves the sidelines with the fact that they'll just somehow manage on their own, and unfortunately it's still true. On the one hand, billions of crowns have been invested and invested in the inclusion program, which is perfectly fine in most cases, it is nothing against, this interpellation is not against inclusion in the least, but on the other hand, I mind a certain disregard for the work of teachers with talents. The development of talented youth skills and skills will return many times in their future practice. I won't be talking about it for long, I have some questions about working with talent from the Ministry of Education. First of all, how does the Ministry of Education want to work with talented youth or work with talented youth at all levels of education, especially in primary and secondary schools? One reason is the absence of this item in your presentation of priorities - I am now addressing the new Minister of Education - or at least I haven't found it there. Secondly, does the Ministry of Education support other talents than those who study at gymnasiums with sports training? There the finances are focused mainly on the wages of coaches and educators. If so, would you be so kind as to give them to us specifically? Thirdly, will you follow up on the earlier work of the so-called Centre for Talented Youth at Johns Hopkins University - this is the summer of 2014, Minister Chládek and so on - when, in essence, the centers for talented youth were created here? If I made it very simple, if there was support for the foundation, it worked. [[The President: The time has passed.]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u119	There will be an opportunity for an additional question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start a little more generally. The priorities that I presented at the first press conference could have been innumerable and aimed at fundamental systemic changes that I would like to discuss. This, of course, does not mean that I will not be dealing with a whole range of other things that I consider important. In fact, I agree with my honourable colleague and friend that sometimes our strategic documents in the field of education leave behind quality issues. I have read inquisitively in the past Strategy 2030+, which is generally accepted as a good document and a starting point for education policy, but when you go through the text in the search engine, you will find that the word quality occurs five times in it, always only in the context of some practical practice, the quality of some specific type of activity, but the whole strategy does not actually aim at some quality system and quality of quality support in the system. This may be one of the topics I would like to open in connection with the updating of the Ministry of Education's strategic documents. But now, specifically, this thing. Of course, I have the documentation prepared by my co-workers and I am gradually penetrating the budget into its structure. The Ministry of Education announces a programme called Support for gifted pupils of primary and secondary schools for 2023. The total allocation of this challenge is CZK 18 million, which is 3 million more than in previous years, but we can, of course, debate whether it is enough. Applicants are different types of educational institutions, including universities. The content of the activities that are supported is the activities of pupils and students that go beyond the relevant educational level where the children are. 68 projects were submitted for 30 million. Of course, only part of the demand was met, but the scope of the intervention should be surprisingly wide, actually almost 11,000 gifted pupils. In addition, the Ministry of Education also supports calls for competitions this year, which are actually one of the ways of promoting the talent of our pupils and students. There are applicants for a legal person who is a school person or are school establishments directly in the register and some non-state non-profit organisations and public and private universities. There 150 applications were submitted and 128 projects were supported for CZK 70 million. Up to three quarters of a million pupils will participate in the competitions. Of course, against that number, the funds are quite modest. I am, of course, prepared to pursue systematic support for such activities. However, I think it is appropriate to remind you that a number of similar activities support our regions, for example. At least our experience from the South Moravian Region is historically positive in this regard and public authorities have a relatively wide scope to promote these activities. I just promise that I will try to bring back a little order, even though we know well that at the time of budgetary equilibrium every tens of millions in the budget of any ministry is something that will qualify for various potential activities, which are godly and very hard to decide which is more important and which is less. But that's just the way it is. I'm ready to play the part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u121	Thank you very much. An additional question for the honourable Member? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u122	More like a few notes. For one thing, I think it would be worth working with institutions like Menza and the like, which are oriented here to these students. For one thing, you've confirmed to me that I have nothing against the billions in inclusion - that's just what it takes today, that's useful - and that 18 million seems like a relatively small number to me. On the other hand, I understand that if the demand was 30 million, we move in small amounts, so that's a shame towards those schools. [[17.10 hours]] I think here, if possible, we should be on the committee... Also make sure there's at least an appeal to the primary schools so they can pick out talent. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u123	Thank you. The Minister is interested in a reaction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u124	I will be brief, thank you for the offer to hold a debate on the floor of the relevant House Committee, and I am certainly looking forward to it. There may be a small space opening up in the Jan Amos Komenskýý Operational Programme, which may be increased by some kind of transfer - it will not be absolutely essential means, but targeting such activities could be beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u125	Thank you very much, and Mrs Ivana Mádlová will speak with further intervention. Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u126	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the consolidation package includes an increase in VAT for a wide range of services and products. However, I have to stop at an increase in VAT from 10 to 12 per cent for gluten-free foods, which are foods for particular nutritional uses. They're food of vital importance, no doubt you know that as a doctor, I'm more of a citizen. Of course, this requires a lifelong change in diet, a lifetime diet, and, of course, it applies to children up to seniors. It is for both celiacs and of course this diet is also recommended for phenylketonuria. I was wondering, do you have any idea how much this should bring to the state budget? The incidence of celiac patients, for example, is about 2.5 percent, and it is true that your government is about to increase water, heat, transport, medicines, but also swimming where families go with children and so on, and if the state budget really saves it in some way. When I was doing my grocery shopping and comparing, it's about 3.5 to four times more expensive than when you're buying the same food for a baby without celiacs. There is undoubtedly a high risk that the diet will be violated and associated with the occurrence of complications. I was wondering if you're considering some compensation? Do you need to deal with health insurance companies? Then I am prepared to submit an amendment to these clearly defined foods, which are in the decree, to be together with books at the 0% VAT rate, and I ask you as Minister of Health and Physician if you are willing to discuss this option and possibly support it. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u127	Thank you and with the response again Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for the interview, and I apologize for being a little smart now - and I apologize in advance for that, I with Mr. Engineer Ježork, whom I greet and who is the head of the celiacs, I've been cooperating, now it's been 25 years. Once, Mr Hovorka, who was in the Chamber of Deputies, was the one who tried to push for some steps. And I would just like to separate phenylketonuria and celiaciacs because of another type of diet, but let's talk about celiacs that are proven from enterobiopsy, not patients who have clinical symptoms of gluten intolerance without evidence of enterobiopsy. And here you have to say that celiacs - of course gluten doesn't contain most food, but bread and many other things just without... So flour contains gluten. Once again, we could say that we are working very intensively today at the State Institute of Health with breeders and genetics, we have created a working group and we are looking for a way to move the breeding of gluten-free wheat. But I'd go a long way. It is a fact that diet without gluten is not a support device in this case, but the only cure for these patients. That is why we were already with your colleague, who is still a Member - but I dare not name it because it was very personal when we were working together, then I in opposition, he in coalition - looking for a way together with others to somehow re-meld it to be better paid for this diet, and at the same time we were looking for a way to get gluten-free food for children to school, because here we need to start with it very soon, start with the children. It's a very simple thing to say, if the diet is on time, then the wolves - and now I'll be crucified by experts who understand it much better than I do - but the enterocytes, the wolves, the intestinal intestine in the small intestine have time to evolve and then maybe the need for gluten-free diet is not so strong and disappears, so that's why in the children. Technically, some countries did push for a reduction in food tax for celiacs, and that was one of our plans once, which we also wanted to implement. The result is, however, that in these countries there was no decrease in the prices of the food, they did not fully reflect it on the prices. That means we're looking for another way, and we're looking for that way in a double direction. The first direction is that the Ministry of Health is preparing a package in the public health insurance system, and I firmly believe that next year we will present the package in the form of some kind of legislative regulation, which includes a contribution for people with celiaciacs covered by public health insurance, but beware, directly from the basic fund of health insurance companies, not the one that is today, when they have to apply from the Fund of Prevention. At the same time, of course, we will be discussing, and I hope that all our fellow Members, on the board of directors, will increase the contribution from the Prevention Fund for a transitional period to cover, say, the increased costs. The second thing and the second line that we are after, and for that it is necessary to thank colleagues - one of them was here, now he is not here, but he will appear again - is the creation of an interdisciplinary interministerial working group, which I received from the Prime Minister for the task of coordinating as Vice Prime Minister. I have commissioned the administration of the State Health Institute, there are representatives of education, agriculture, work, social affairs and health care, and we want to allow and we want to get into legislation, which is a form of methodological guidelines, and I don't know what to do, for example, for children in schools, when they buy the package for parents, who, let's say, in some way co-financed health insurance, could heat it up in a microwave in that school, because not every school is planning such a project. I would like to mention here that I am based on the experience that I have with Minister Hladík, then Deputy Minister, and with Mrs, and I will name her, with Mrs. Javorová, today Onderková, when we launched the project for gluten-free food in Brno, and the project works very well. I'd like to make two comments on the package, though. The traffic, for example, gets cheaper, it goes from 15 to 12, so this is where it's going to be saved. And as for health care, it needs to be said that a large sum of what was in 15 goes to 12. In the case of drugs, we're debating the solution, and I'm going to introduce it here, but in general, patients have the system, they're going to have lower health spending on what pays directly. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u129	Thank you and there will be an additional question, so the opportunity to further develop and complete. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u130	Thank you for your answer, especially for working on a package, because at the moment it is actually so that not all health insurance companies from the Prevention Fund pay, moreover, it is limited in age and so on and so on and so on and it is necessary to actually work on some variant where it will compensate them basically in a binding way, because, as you said, it is possible from that basic fund in some way, I do not know how, of course, you are working on it and I will be happy for it, because the food is extremely expensive. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u131	Thank you. There's room for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u132	There is no more than to say, we are absolutely in agreement, and I believe that there will be absolutely clear support in all directions, as has changed, for example, the position of diabetes in terms of sugar-free foods, and today the opinion is growing that it is not appropriate to go into sugar-free foods, but to compensate for the level, monitor it and concentrate on monitoring. In the case of celiac disease, there is a completely opposite trend and a really hard gluten-free diet is the way. And here I'd like to point out that these can sometimes be things that those parents don't realize. The ice cream that's in the cone, if the cone isn't gluten-free, is a big problem for little kids, and there's a lot of that stuff. It just needs to be realized what it is. For that reason, and here I am saying it again, clearly, publicly on the microphone, not only as Minister of Health, but above all as a doctor: I am 100% sure that gluten-free diet is not a choice of food, but the only possible treatment for celiacs. And that's how we have to deal with it. [[17.20 hours]] Adam Vojtěch and I were agreed on some solution, unfortunately there was a rapid change of guard and then we didn't do it anymore, but I will implement the solution that we agreed on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u133	Thank you very much and we approach Mr Lubomír Wenzl's interview, Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Madam Secretary, despite your apologized absence to participate in today's interpellations, I want to reopen the issue of an army contract for the purchase of new BVPs. It leads me to believe that at the end of this month, that is, in less than two weeks, a contract should be signed for the supply of infantry vehicles to replace the old BVP from pre-November production and time. I asked some questions last month in the context of the interpelation, but I have not yet received the answer. During this time, some other uncertainties have arisen, and I am not only sorry to hear about them from the media. The first is: How many pieces and at what price will the item be delivered in the event of the conclusion of the contract? After all, the negotiations are being conducted on the acquisition of 210 pieces at a price of around 52 billion. However, we learn from the media that the contract should be increased by another 36 pieces of technology, which would increase the price to perhaps 60 billion crowns. If the information is true, I ask when, on the basis of what requirements, what analyses there has been an increase in the number of pieces of technology. The second concerns the volume of involvement of Czech companies in this tender. It follows from the so far declared that our producers should participate in this contract of around 40 percent, which is about 20 billion out of 52 billion. Will this volume be respected? Will the percentage of Czech producers' involvement be enshrined in the contract? In the media it was said that some Czech arms companies expressed concerns that their share of involvement might not be as high as promised. I do not question the need to modernize the Army of the Czech Republic, I do not question the chosen method of acquisition, but at a time when the five-calice government is presenting a package of savings, the impact of which will be on everyone in a negative sense, I expect a contract to be signed, which will include, among other things, that the supplier undertakes to deliver 210 BVPs for CZK 52 billion and the fulfilment of our producers will be 40 percent. Or is it gonna be different? If so, then how? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u135	Thank you for keeping time. Madam Secretary is excused. He will reply in writing within 30 days. And we approach Mrs Berenika Peštová's intervention, and Karla Maříková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u136	Thank you for the floor. vážený Minister, the local politician ODS Pavel Novotný, Mayor of Řeporyj, has recently repeatedly stated on social networks that he has, and I quote his words, "I have the cover of Fiala and Rakušan, you do not." It is public knowledge that Mr Novotný often and likes to cross the law and that in most cases he has been avoided by punishments so far. This is a political figure from your government coalition partner ODS's stable. He has repeatedly páchat crimes against civil coexistence, but in the past he has also been punished for a crime. He's proud to mediate his actions. He claims that the police are short on him and that you, as Home Secretary, are covering for him as well as the ODS' cover. Do you think that's okay, Minister? Are you glad he's using your name? Does this increase citizens' confidence in police impartiality? Mr. Home Secretary, given that your name has fallen out of his mouth repeatedly, I would like to hear a clear answer from you: Are you covering for Pavel Novotný? Is the police proceeding impartially to investigate his actions? And if you're not covering for him, haven't you considered defending yourself against the abuse of your name by legal means and dealing with the whole ODS leadership thing? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u137	Thank you for your time and now the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u138	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Madam President, I will try systematically to answer the questions you have asked me. The one that most resonated with the Chamber was: Are you covering for Pavel Novotný? I'm not covering for Pavel Novotný. The next question was whether I was considering any legal action or procedures. You know, you are probably experiencing this, through Madam President, also you, but in the context of ministerial action on a daily basis in the seduction that I receive from my team, where people express themselves about me, there is the politician of one political party, the other political party, I would not have time to do anything but address and respond to any statements, whether local or national politicians, so I certainly do not consider it. I have not even seen and read the statement, and I have quite detailed monitoring, but I think the matter is clear. I saw the name of your interpelation, so I tried to prepare. I know that the Police of the Czech Republic, because of a video on TikTok, approached Pavel Novotný to give an explanation, quite standard. Of course, if it doesn't, the police authority will follow the standard procedure again. So I'm sure I appreciate your interest in the proper performance of the police service, and I'm sure I share it with you. I didn't find anything wrong with the police progress, and I don't think it's my place to comment on the means that one or more politicians use in their own representation, whether it's a government party politician, whether it's opposition party politicians. And if I look at the statements that often involve me in opposition Members, I really do give many judicial statements here that, as a constitutional officer, I simply have to have a greater degree of tolerance for how my name is used in the public space. I will also apply this in this case, and I will certainly not deal with this matter with the management of the ODS. I don't see it as anything that's fundamentally affecting my personal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u139	Thank you. The Member shall speak with an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u140	I'm gonna try, I've only got a minute, so I just have to explain, "There's been a spread between FB's deisolates that I should have broken my parole and I'm gonna go to jail, and they've been texting me all morning. If the udder knew I didn't even have to go explain. The police of the Czech Republic asked me to e-mail some comments on the matter. I won't be prosecuted. I have five-wheel protection, so epi epi!" That's the answer to what you said that the police are doing certain steps, they're investigating. I'm just asking. It's in your interest. It's a video where he really says he's got protection from you, he's got protection from Mr. Fiala. I personally filed a criminal complaint against him. I believe that there are various expressions on Facebook, even sometimes outrageous, but this is already over the edge, because this person takes the whole nation into his mouth and degenerates him. He really degenerates him! So I'm begging you, look at this. If you don't have it at your disposal, I'll give it to you, because it flies on Twitter, on Facebook, everywhere, and try to take action. [[The President: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u141	Thank you and room for Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u142	Madam President, I really do have a sensitivity level shifted elsewhere. I've made one criminal report in the last year, and that's when the anonymous writer wrote and called my kids names and said he knew where they were playing. At that point, my sensitivity was exceeded, and I filed a criminal complaint. In this case, and I think it's always on the subjective assessment of each individual, the border hasn't been crossed. I will not say whether I identify with the content of the contribution. I certainly don't use that kind of expression in a political struggle. I've announced that he doesn't have any cover. And the thing you were talking about. Pavel Novotný was asked to give an explanation in writing. Such a procedure is standard, widely used, according to § 61 para. 1st Act No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, which shows that the necessity of personal participation by the person providing the explanation is fully left to consider the police authority. As Minister of the Interior, I do not tend to interfere with consideration in a specific case that will be done by a police authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u143	I also thank and just add that the members of the government do not have to turn to the Members through the chair. And now, Mrs Karla Maříková, if she is present, Mr Koten will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u144	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, highway signs should be increased from 1 March 2024, but only for cars with internal combustion engines. For hybrids, they'll be a mouthful, and for electric cars they'll even be totally free. Does this mean that electric cars and hybrids damage highways less? Because the principle of road signs is that there is a tax on the wear and tear of highway networks. Or do electric cars start floating on the highways? You said in the media that you wanted to help move cars around the road networks with less environmental implications. Only a little more than one hundred global CO2 emissions come from the operation of passenger cars. Electric cars produce no emissions while driving, for example, if we forget to swab the tyres, but before it can go, it has to be produced first, it has to be made for batteries that we need lithium and cobalt. Then somewhere you forgot about the CO2 emissions generated in the generation of electricity, and after the battery serves, it has to go through the process of liquidation. It is estimated that the 400 km range vehicle produces 68 per cent more emissions in production compared to the production of a petrol engine vehicle. Do you really want to participate in the destruction of cars with an internal combustion engine, which would endanger the existential number of people who do not use our car as a luxury or for fun?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u145	Thank you again for keeping time and now the Minister of Transport Martin Kupka will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone can suspect me of a blinded passion for electromobility. However, I also perceive, on the basis of professional foreign expertise, that, indeed, even in total and taking into account all aspects, transport in an electric car is really a little more environmentally friendly than driving an internal combustion engine. But at the same time, I would never sign, for example, Euro 7 in its original form, which would actually pose a threat to the European automotive industry and would pose a threat to internal combustion engines, which at present in the most modern version are significantly more environmentally friendly, for example, than combustion engines that were produced many years ago. As far as the price of the motorway stamp is concerned, however, there is already a significant change, because in the current version and the hybrids, which, of course, produce especially when driving along the motorway, greenhouse gas, i.e. carbon dioxide, had a total exemption from the fee. At this point, it is in line with European regulations - or it will be from 1 March - 25 percent. In the case of battery electric vehicles, fully battery electric vehicles, the fee will remain zero as a form that has not been decided by this government, but which has been in the Czech environment for some time. At the same time, I believe that the process of developing electromobility will also gradually change the conditions from the point of view of charging. With regard to the load on the motorways themselves and the tolled network, the heavier the vehicle is, the more wear and tear. However, a significant difference occurs only for significantly larger vehicles with cargo, where it is really possible to talk about exponential loads or exponential impact on the state of the motorway network. It is certainly not possible to monitor the difference significant in this respect between, for example, a large limousine and a small electric car and so on. However, from the perspective of the position of the Czech Government, we will continue to support the most balanced development of mobility in general, including our unambiguous refusal to take a stand against the Euro 7 and, in this respect, the technically unrealistic pressure to develop more electromobility. Moreover, in the case of the Euro 7 standard, even electric cars themselves become subject to regulation. I am convinced that our view of mobility in general is simply to express common sense, that in this regard we should act in such a way that we do not endanger any of those who are using current cars with internal combustion engines, or those who have chosen any form of alternative propulsion. We are to proceed in such a way that at the same time we are able, and that is actually the most important thing, to repay the Czech Republic's dramatic debt to the unfinished motorway network. There has been a significant increase in investment funds in recent years, and if investment can be strengthened in the coming years, it is realistic for the basic motorway network to be completed in 2033. All revenue from highway signs is heading into transport infrastructure, maintenance and, of course, investment. Thus, all the money that motorists pay for road signs can be directly seen in the form of new built-up sections of motorways as well as in the form of a maintained transport network. It is also obvious, and it is also the result of international expertise, that the Czech motorway network is not only developing in scope, but also in quality, and I firmly hope that in this case the increased fee, which corresponds to the inflation rate of 12 years, when nothing happened with the motorway sign in terms of the level of the fee, will be tolerable for families. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u147	Thank you, and the honourable Member will ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u148	So, Minister, what kind of car are they driving you to and from the Ministry? I feel like it's in a car with an internal combustion engine. Isn't it a bit of hypocrisy that you're such a protector of the environment? In fact, you are involved in the destruction of cars with an internal combustion engine. Most of these cars are just people who don't have it as luxury and can't afford to go buy a new electric car. And it was your Prime Minister, whose sentence was just about luxury I used at the end of my interpelation. And it was also your Prime Minister who said it would be an outrage if you stood up to ban the sale of new cars with internal combustion engines. On the other hand, you are saying how opposed you are here, but it was under your Presidency, when it was voted in the European Union that new cars with an internal combustion engine would be banned since 2035.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u149	Thank you for keeping time and room for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u150	And it was the Czech Republic, which was the first one among the Member States to oppose the presented Euro 7 standard. We were the first ones to start hitting the alarm. We described the problems of Euro 7 which could actually mean that those who have the deepest in their pocket could be difficult to restore, for example, their fleet, they could buy a new car with an internal combustion engine, for example, in that category the least expensive. And it was also the Czech government that began to organize the alliances of other states, a group of equally-minded countries that oppose the Euro 7 standard in its submitted form. Moreover, I am convinced that we will be able to promote a rational view in this regard and that Euro 7 will not apply as a result. And if it does not apply, it also means that European car manufacturers will manage to maintain the production of vehicles with internal combustion engines for some time, in a form that, by the way, is really more environmentally friendly than vehicles that were produced many years ago. In this regard, our view is reasonable, it is also responsible in relation to the environment, because we also believe that if Euro 7 had started to apply, the effects would also have turned against those who are currently fighting for environmental protection. [[17.40 hours]] As for what kind of car I use: yes, a vehicle with an internal combustion engine, but I also dispose of a hybrid, sometimes I ride a bike to work, I normally move in various other means of transport, including an electrified railroad, and I try to behave rationally, as about all of us who watch at the same time, so that his actions really have as little negative impact on the environment as possible. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I'm not just talking about the environment right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u151	Thank you. We hereby proceed to another interpelation, but Mr Koten is not present in the hall, so his interpellation is failing. And we are coming to the interview of Mr Miroslav Zborovský, Mr Marek Novák will prepare. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an interview with Minister Marian Jurečka. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you a question about the government's proposed austerity package. First of all, I would like to say that this package has my full support, because it is essential for all of us to start reducing the debt of our country and addressing the structural deficit of the state budget. The need to start saving is quite obvious, and in the context of savings, I would like to ask you whether and to what extent savings will impact on the financing of social services. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u153	Thank you and Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka will now perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u154	Hello, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Member Zborovský, I must say that these questions are now quite timely, because, of course, the issues of national subsidies and savings in each departmental chapter have often been brought to light in the last week since the announcement of the parameters of the recovery consolidation package. Yes, the truth is that in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs we have a number of national grant titles, which are their character quasi-mandatory expenses, that is, the Ministry really has to implement them and there is no room for any cuts. This category also includes the financing of social services, because it is a subsidy title, for example the financing of OSPOD workers, the financing of social workers and others. Here I am clearly saying that I do not see in these grant titles - and this is how we agreed on the government - that there would be space for these grant titles in their volumes to shorten that there would be room for some kind of cutback. On the contrary, in the case of the financing of social services, we are in a situation where the amount of funding increases every year. When we look at the increase, for example, between last year and this year, we increased the funding of social services by 12,12 percent, to CZK 26.5 billion. Of course, we are at the stage now that we are preparing the budget together with the regions for 2024, both in order to ensure both the coverage of the needs of financing social services and their providers, as well as in order to cover the funds that follow the development of the network, because the population is getting older, each year more and more clients come in need of this form of assistance, whether off-road social services or residential services, or some other types of accommodation. So we're counting on an increase in the funding of social services here year on year. The aim of this government is for social services to be stable so that their providers can plan predictablely, and we are actually preparing a big amendment to the Social Services Act, which should then be from 1. 1. 2025 will also introduce the principle of multi-annual financing of social services so that this is predictable so that providers can plan far better, develop their services and do not have to worry every year about looking at the next government here, how socially responsible and sensitive it will be, if there are any extra funds at all. I think that, during the time of our government, in the two years for which we are responsible, social services are in a situation where, in order to fully cover their operations, to develop their network and improve the quality of social services, the government is releasing funds. By the way, the increase is roughly from CZK 21 billion over two years to CZK 26.5 billion, so none of the citizens, of the people who work in the social services sector, need worry that under the cuts that the government has decided to make in national subsidies, we would touch on the financing of social services or other socially important and fundamental agendas. At the MPSV resort we agreed on a savings facility, which should be around CZK 300 billion - CZK 300 million, sorry, CZK 300 million - this concerns the subsidy title, which is aimed at developing a material technical base of social infrastructure, in a situation where we know that this year we have launched full funding from the Employment Plus Operational Programme, from the National Recovery Plan, and we have a large amount of funds in the order of billions of crowns, which are currently going into investment in social infrastructure, its development. This means that, in this situation, we can afford to reduce those national financial resources significantly and make full use of the financial resources provided to us from the European Union budget at this time. So no one needs to be worried about this, there is stability and predictability in the fact that social services will be sufficiently funded in the next year and in the years following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u155	Thank you very much. I will make sure with the Member that there is no interest in the supplementary question. This is the case, so we will proceed to another interpellation, namely that of Mr Marek Novák, and then Mr Jan Síla will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u156	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question is how do you perceive an alarming situation where social benefits have never been so interested in them. Specifically, the housing contribution was taken by 260,000 record households in March this year, mostly in the last ten years. This figure increased by more than 50 percent year on year. The main reason, of course, is the price increase, inflation, and people are forced to ask for benefits, otherwise they have a problem to survive. Do you see this as the Minister of Social Affairs and Labour as being a real and correct social policy so that people have to ask for benefits from one pocket to another, and thus lose a large part of the state's money under the administration of these benefits? Instead of, for example, giving the elderly enough money directly, the State will take them away through a change in parameters in pensions and at the same time send them to the employment office for a benefit. The same thing, only a younger group of citizens, is caused by an economical package. But the Labour Office is also costing considerable costs, and the state is losing a lot of money by this logic. Moreover, officials are not financially motivated in this difficult situation, subjected to extreme psychic pressure to deal with all these requests, and, of course, the processing of applications is delayed. It's kind of like shooting yourself in your own leg and relying on the citizens' patience testing marathon to have an end. But thanks to the steps you're taking, and you're introducing others, it looks like it's just the beginning of the end. [[Time.]] Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u157	Thank you and now there is room for the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u158	Hello, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Member, I will take the liberty of responding to your intervention. I think it is important that we realize the essence and the principle of why the social system is here, and it is here for moments when it either helps where the person cannot help himself for objective reasons, for example, the family cannot help him, and then the state is to come, who in really justified cases will lend a helping hand through social systems. Then there is a social system necessary in times when there will be some absolute extraordinaryness - an extraordinaryness that simply means a one-off significant impact on the situation of citizens, families, households, and these are natural disasters such as floods, tornadoes, fires, or, for example, a severe economic crisis where the economy is going to fall, an increase in unemployment, as we saw here in the period around 2009 to 2012, or when what happened last year, is the war in Ukraine, which has brought huge instability into the global energy markets, into the food markets, and which has led to a dramatic rise in inflation throughout Europe, including the Czech Republic. [[17.50 hours]] In these emergency situations, it is here to stand by to lend a helping hand to help people effectively, and I think it has happened and that it is happening. And of course, we also know that the state of scale of such assistance will not last for years to come. We see today, when we look at the data from last week, inflation fell for the first time in about 20 months, we have a month-on-month decline of -0.2 percent. For example, the price of food that is falling plays a significant role in this. We see that agricultural commodity prices have fallen significantly, which are on values before 2021, and this is all clear information that the situation will improve. To that end, we have the lowest unemployment in history, we are experiencing this period with very low unemployment and at the same time the lowest unemployment in the European Union. And when we look at the structure of the aid implemented by the state here, it was not social support that would primarily help address the situation of pensioners who receive old-age pensions, but primarily families with children, where this is the instrument to help. When we look at the largest volume we pay, it is a parental contribution, then it was a significant increase in the contribution to housing, and we see that the situation really gradually this year will stabilize and logically also the number of applicants will decrease gradually. As far as seniors are concerned, hard numbers and facts clearly apply here. When we look at the last year and a half, the highest increase in pensions in history, by 30 percent. This year, the average pension after the June Valorisation exceeds CZK 20,200. At this point, the most frequently received pension in this country is CZK 21,000 and the increase is actually CZK 5,000 in about a year and a half for the average pension. Here we can also see the statistics on social benefits analysis and one important thing that the part of social support that is realized in the context of a material emergency is also very similar to the period before 2022. The main increase and strain on the social system is mainly in the area of the housing contribution, and here again, when we look at the impacts or how the energy market has been developing in the last three months, let's say, today's fresh reports on the price of gas below 30 euros are actually a return to 2021. This is also logically reflected in reducing the number of people and households who will be entitled to a housing allowance. So the assumption is that the number of people who will need this form of support in the coming months will gradually start to fall again. I think that the social system has done its part, and I think it is doing it well. Among other things, we have a very good position in Europe that we have the best values in terms of the volume of people at risk of income poverty, in this comparison the Czech Republic is doing very well. So as much as the answer and the answer based on the facts on your interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u159	Thank you for keeping time. I see an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u160	Thank you so much for your previous answer. We are not entirely in line with the fact that the situation is fundamentally better, certainly not. I think we need to talk to these people and have some news about what's going on in society. As you have mentioned the objective reasons, one of the objective reasons is the government's planned actions - the reduction in valorisation, the so-called pension reform, the austerity package, all of this, in turn, will lead to a further reduction in people's incomes and, in addition, an increase in corporate costs, so it is and people will be shown to increase their benefits. And so I'd rather ask, so we know and we're ready, we'll talk about it soon enough, do you expect this situation in planning expenditure for the state budget next year?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u161	Thank you for respecting the Minister's time and response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u162	Thank you. I have to say no to what you're saying. You are creating an atmosphere of fear that there will be more people here who will need social assistance and support through the batch system, because if we look for example at the history of the last months and the claims of many of your colleagues from your side, so during the autumn I heard information in the media type: there will be mass redundancies, 60 percent of employees will be threatened by layoffs, companies will not stand, companies will fall, government aid is not here. What of these claims and claims made by your colleagues in the autumn of last year? Nothing at all, nothing at all! The companies are working, the government's help has arrived. Where she was supposed to help, she helped, the lowest unemployment goes on. There are more job vacancies than unemployed. So it's just a reference to the fact that when it's haunted, it's also necessary to put things in context. And for pensions - it is clearly true, and it is also in the legislation that we have already proposed and sent to the legislative process - pensions will be fully audited by inflation and by one third of the growth in real wages in the future. The state that has been in the Czech Republic for many years - long years! - before 2018 and which provided a good standard of living for our pensioners, so don't be scared and say things that aren't true. Current and future pensions, which will be measured, will continue to grow. The value of the average pension between some 2025 and 2035 will increase, the average pension, by CZK 10,000. The pace of pension growth is really quite high, so please don't create some sort of fear atmosphere here again. I don't like the use of information that, apparently, even from macroeconomic data, cannot be true and real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-012-137.u163	Thank you, and since the time for an interview with a member of the Government of the Czech Republic has been exhausted, I note that for today's meeting, we have completed the discussion of oral interventions. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I am now interrupting the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by Tuesday, 30 May 2023 by 14:00 and recall that tomorrow, Friday, 19 May 2023, the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 9 o'clock. And I wish you a pleasant afternoon or evening.
