ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 458/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor. And I'm asking everyone in the room to keep their voice down, maybe take care of everything in front of the O.R. so we can all hear Mr. Vice Prime Minister. [[No response.]] One more time, please, everyone... I beg you to be patient, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am glad that after more than seven hours our negotiations finally come after many long speeches so that we can start discussing this concrete draft amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, i.e. Act No. 155/1995 Coll., House Press 458, first reading. This proposal is, in fact, an important element of the overall pension reform, but it is presented here because of the fact that we are dealing with the specific situation which, thanks to the not entirely perfect current legislation, creates an environment where, in the years when there is an extraordinary valuation of pensions, such a specific situation arises, where it subsequently becomes more advantageous to retire early, and it is unfair to all those who have not had and will not have such an option in that year or before or after. At the same time, we are reacting to the second area that we are dealing with, the area of both extraordinary and proper valorization. The proposal is a proposal which means, in terms of valorisation, that pensions will grow in the future, whether current or future old-age pensioners. I remind you, in the last year and a half, our pensions in the Czech Republic have increased by 30%. They exceeded the record limit of the average amount of pensions - an amount of CZK 20,000. And even in the future, there will always be proper valuation on 1 January of each calendar year, which will fully cover the previous inflation growth, and so pensions will be fully audited for inflation. At the same time, we are adjusting the parameter when we will valorize pensions by one third of the growth in real wages, which is a parameter that has been here for a very, very long time, until 2018, and the combination of these two parameters ensured the guarantee of decent, good, dignified pensions, which also managed to respond to developments in the situation, whether from the point of view of possible inflation or changes in the development of real wages. At the same time, however, we also adjust those parts that relate to extraordinary valorisation. Because only now the experience of last year and this year shows that the current principle of extraordinary valorisation, which occurs during the course of the year between the proper valorisations, at a time when inflation will rise by more than 5 per cent per month, is now triggered by the mechanism of extraordinary valorisation, which does notvalorize the basic acreage, but valorizes the merit component, but subsequently by valorisation, the merit component will increase it permanently, and that means that pensions that are above average and higher are actually permanently increased by the end of the lives of those who receive these pensions, are actually increased by more than pensions of old-age pensioners who have below average and low pensions. Thus, extraordinary valorisation in its principle and in the way it was done last year, but also this year, means that scissors are being opened between above-average and high pensions and those receiving below-average and low pensions. And that's not okay. It's not fair. That is why we are setting up a principle that will replace this extraordinary valuation with these parameters with a so-called extraordinary contribution to the pension that no one will have to ask for and which will automatically be paid if the inter-month inflation, as it is now, increases by more than 5%, and it will be a contribution that will help these people manage the situation for the rest of those months of that particular year and reveal the impact of inflation. And then it comes on January 1st, where pensions are always valorized for inflation for the previous 12 months, and, of course, the basic figure will also increase to 20 per cent according to the average wage level. Indeed, this mechanism is able to guarantee changes that are fair, which are predictable, which cover and ensure a good standard of living, and provide not only for current old-age pensioners but also for all futures who will only come to their retirement age. Then we will look at the area which concerns the adjustment of the conditions for early retirement pensions. We're adjusting these conditions here, and I'm also saying openly that we're tightening them up a little bit. Because I think that the institution of early retirement should not be an instrument that is used because it is more advantageous at some point, but that it is an instrument that is used because a person is in a situation where he needs to retire early retirement, because perhaps he is no longer enough to pursue his profession, his profession. [[19.30 hours]] We're adjusting these parameters, I think relatively rationally, in the four areas. So that the entitlement and the possibility to retire early is in a situation where a person is at that time three years before he is entitled to an old-age pension. Today it's been five years and we're shortening it to three years. So we are also adjusting the amount of reduction of that percentage of income, when we will reduce the percentage of old-age early retirement by 1,5 per cent for every 90 missing days. We will also have a parameter here, when to use this institute, the insurance period that a person has to have will be 40 years. Thus, not the basic 35 years, which is the time to obtain an old-age pension, but the early retirement period will be 40 years of insurance period or replacement periods. I note that today people retire in a situation where they have an average of 44.5 years of insurance. Then there's the last parameter where we say that for a time when a person - up to three years at most - receives this early retirement pension, the percentage of the income will not be compared to him. As of January 1, only the basic period will be reviewed, and then, when you reach the age for the proper old age pension, of course, the subsequent amount will be duly reviewed. These are the key changes contained in this bill amendment. I would like to point out - and I said this here about three quarters of an hour ago in my speech, even before we started discussing this particular part of this press - that we are doing these steps because it is part of the overall change in the framework of pension reform. So that we can ensure decent old-age pensions not only for current pensioners, but also for their children, for their grandchildren, i.e. for generations coming into retirement for the next 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 years, so that they too have the chance of qualifying from the ongoing pillar for a dignified and good life enabling an old-age pension. If we do not take these steps, we will get future governments, but especially those future generations in a very difficult situation where not solving this problem will mean either a need to increase taxes significantly in the future, or a significant reduction in the expenditure of other ministerial chapters, such as education, health, social areas, etc., or there would be a significant fall in the amount of future pensions. I think it is responsible to be able to come and say: This is a real situation. This is not a haunting, it is a statement of facts that the long years of the previous government have known, but have ignored them or feared and have not had the courage to come and say openly - this is a situation that needs to be changed for the benefit of the citizens of this country, for the future. We do that, we promised the voters, and we consider it fair. A politician is not supposed to be a politician who erases honey around his mouth and does everything to ensure that citizens who are not in the detail of all the information and context paint the world pink, but has to come forward and say this is real, real, description of things and we are proposing rational measures here. This is what we do in the context of pension reform. Pension reforms, which have both social solidarity measures, but also have measures that mean that we also have to look somewhere in the area of income or expenditure. I am ready for discussion in the framework of the general debate at first reading as well as at subsequent discussions on committees or on the committee. I'll be happy if the performers here focus on how they might adjust the parameters differently, but most importantly, to say how they would like to have a sustainable system, because that's what I sometimes miss about the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening. The Minister has already commented on the bill quite in detail, but allow me to present a summary report on the government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. The bill was sent to Members as press 458/0, on 25 May 2023. The proposed amendment represents part of the reform measures to ensure adequate pensions accentuating intergenerational justice and contributing to ensuring long-term sustainability of the pension system within public finances. Changes in early retirement are designed to be reasonably restrictive and to reduce the possibility of using early retirement by reducing the incentive to early retirement. As regards the adjustments to the Valorisation Mechanism, they are designed as sensitive interventions which do not fundamentally affect the immediate income and social situation of the pension recipients, but have the potential to achieve more significant savings in the cost of the State budget for pension benefits over a longer period of time. Now a brief summary of what changes in this proposed law relate to. It is the maximum period for early retirement, the minimum period of insurance required for entitlement to early retirement, the penalization of early pensions, the valorisation of early pensions, the valorisation in due and exceptional time and the valorisation of pensions. As far as efficiency is concerned. It is a proposal for this law to take effect on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication, with the exception of Article 1, point 1, which introduces an extension of the period of insurance required for entitlement to an early retirement pension, from 35 years to 40 years. This is proposed to postpone until the first day of the 13th calendar month following the date of its publication. That is all for me as rapporteur, and I will then come forward in a detailed debate on the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I wish you a good evening. I thank the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Pavla Golasowská, for presenting the rapporteur's report. I am opening up a debate where I am registering several applications with priority rights. President Alena Schillerová will be the first to speak, President Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Ladies and Gentlemen, Minister, in recent weeks we have been bombarded with reports on how Minister Jurečka is preparing pension reform. The representatives of the five-calice promised the mountains to the mines of the black forest, and, as is the case with the five-calice standard, the result is not yet complete. The screams about how Minister Jurečka will introduce us to the long-awaited pension reform are only smokescreens so far. Unfortunately, we didn't get it. What we are discussing here today is certainly not considered pension reform. It is only a parametric adjustment, which is also done in such a way that its core and only objective is to reduce the standard of living of pensioners. So the pensioners are still the main group to which the government cuts. Therefore, if this were really a pension reform, a set of measures would be put forward to respond to the long-term changing situation on the labour market, reflecting new changes in the organisation of life, which respond to new conditions of time and new demographic situation. [[19.40 hours]] However, the law presented by Minister Jurečka does not meet these conditions at all and is therefore simply a simple parametric change of the system currently set. And this change follows as its main objective to deprive the pensioner's funds, who are guilty of only one thing, and that is that the current five-calices do not vote primarily. So although the Minister and the Government are constantly praising themselves for reform and courage, in fact, we are 11. 5. Very spectacularly presented a non-conceptionary mixture of indications of what might be. Some of the measures are done with existing measures, such as a fictitious assessment base and educational, shared assessment base and widow and widow's pensions. The others then go against each other. All measures reducing the amount of future pensions and the guaranteed amount of pensions, as well as measures to increase the revenue of the scheme, and against this, the intention of abolishing the contributions to pension workers. Measures are certainly not a complex. It is a list of proposals from economic advisors, but by the Minister very vaguely formulated. It is complemented by an untangled cluster of ideas, which acts as a result of bargaining on the Oriental market. And that's probably how it was. The proposed amendment contains several parametric changes. I'll say one thing at a time about one change at a time. However, I repeat once again that their aim is simply to reduce expenditure on benefits. They are certainly not interested in the situation of pension recipients. One thing, however, is that all these measures are in common - and this is a complete lack of understanding of the current situation of pensioners. But one step at a time. Five-calibers are interfering with emergency valorization. Yes, you can hear right. It is true that a temporary allowance for retirement is to be paid instead of this institute. However, its amount will be substantially lower than the current extraordinary valorisation. And that's what this theft is all about. I'll explain. This seemingly renaming of extraordinary valorisation lies in itself the beggaring of Czech pensioners. The change that five-wheelers are about to vote for is costing the pensioners 40 percent of their valorisation, an amount that should make up for 40 percent of their price growth. Today, instead of actively fighting a high rate of inflation, five coalitions are gradually approaching individual measures that would reduce consumer inflation - indeed, the ANO movement provides a number of proposals for more than a year that could lead to a significant reduction in the inflation rate, but the five coalition has always refused to discuss with us in any way. Instead, it extended inflation and deepened its amateur approach. All she could do was enforce the law on the reduction of legal valorisation, which I will be able to get to today and on which we filed a complaint, or, more precisely, a motion to repeal this part of the law, to the Constitutional Court. Instead, instead of focusing on the timely reduction of inflation and the start of growth, the government is developing new methods to reduce the original mechanism of extraordinary valorisation as a tool to offset the increased cost of living due to extraordinary price increases. Now they are trying to create a tool to rob the vast majority of pensioners in case they fail to cope with this inflation even in the coming years, and they are still pretending to correct a situation where low pensions are valued less than the high ones. But he does not admit that he robs everyone with his proposal. This theft, in the form of a reduction in extraordinary valorisation, consists of two separate points. And this - on the one hand, the response to inflation is within five months of the fulfilment of the inflation condition, but at the same time at the earliest in July. Thus, the interval is extended, in which pensioners will not have the increased costs paid. At the same time, and this is even more serious, according to the new five-wheel plan, 100 per cent of the price increase will not be taken into account, only 60 per cent of the inflation achieved will be taken into account. For example, only 3% is taken into account at the assumed 5% inflation. Even so, part of it will take the form of an equal contribution and only part will be reflected by the calculated percentage in the merit of the pensions. Thus, according to the new rules presented, the current five-wheeler wants to valorize the pension of Czech pensioners in case of extraordinary inflation with delay, and the pensioner will also deprive the pensioner of 40 percent of the increase in prices, which will not be reflected in this new addition or pension. Where to find the remaining 40 percent to pay electricity, gas, or food bills, nobody cares about five caliber. The Minister says that the change in the system of introducing a bonus instead of raising a pension is fair because it is advantageous for low-income beneficiaries who receive more than they would have received in the current way. However, he forgets to say that the benefit applies only to people with a pension below 12,000 per month, and in addition to that, it goes away with the subsequent proper valuation. To 1. 1. the following year, these people's incomes will be reduced. In the meantime, it is likely that some of them will be able to run twice to the employment office for the conversion of benefits, first they will lose their entitlement with an increase in income and then they will get it again. I don't even want to conceive the confusion that's going to happen if the authorities that are already overloaded aren't prosecuting deadlines. In addition, I ask: The extraordinary valuation of pensions is an extraordinary instrument that is used in times of accelerated inflation. In the predictions of the Czech National Bank, Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, but also in predictions from foreign institutions, the expected return to the inflation target is already in the course of next year. Therefore, I ask: What motivates the five-calice to take this step? Do they expect high inflation in the coming years? Or are we supposed to view this as a signal of total resignation of a five-wheeler in a fight against inflation? And thus creating backdoors, when the policy of the five-callice was limited only to begging Czech pensionists? I'd almost say option B is correct. And speaking of begging Czech retirees, I must also recall the planned reduction in the credit for real wage growth in the proper valorisation of pensions from one half to one third. This is a return to the period prior to the reign of Andrej Babiš of the year... or Andrej Babiš, in which Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement were in 2017. As a result of this measure, there will be a situation where the longer pensioners will live and receive a pension calculated years ago and valued by only one third of the growth in real wages, the more their standard of living will fall at the standard of living of the entire society. Then they'll be poor. Is that what we really want? Do we really want old people who are no longer objectively able to raise their income by earning money to fall in proportion to the rest of society into poverty, even though they have worked and done everything they had all their lives? What did they do? [[19.50 hours]] In the past, our government has been trying to reduce the gap between generations of pensioners by imposing an automatic increase in pensions of CZK 1 000 per month for people aged 85 plus, i.e. for those whose pensions did not allow them to live as dignifiedly as younger pensioners. In this respect, it is necessary to continue, the weighted five-calice. The third amendment provides for the elimination of the monitoring of two statistical indices of price level changes, namely the CPI index, the consumer price index and the retirement life cost index. This will lead - and I am now, please, quoting the explanatory report: 'long-term reduction in pension expenditure' - which is reaffirming that it is one of the main objectives of the proposed changes. The valuation of pensions is purely based on the cost of living index of pensioners' households seems to be logical. However, the problem is that the consumer basket for calculating the cost of living index of pensioners is not well set. For example, low or inadequate housing costs, which at this time make pensioners, and not only them, very difficult. Moreover, I know from the period when I was at the Ministry of Finance that it was discussed that the CPI index and the pensioner's cost of living index did not correctly take into account reality, and the five-calice, instead of solving the real problem, merely condemns pensioners to lower valuations. Moreover, the use of both types of index, as is the case today, means the consumer price index for pensioners and for the rest of the economically active population, when we valorize according to an index that has higher values, has a reason to believe that pensioners are far from a homogeneous group. The next item that changes the current amendment is the way to retire early pensions and valorize these early pensions. Here we agree on one point - and I do it too, because we are constructive opposition and admit what we agree on - that the method of calculation, when an early pension is worth more than going into retirement at the standard time, is not good and needs to be corrected and restated. On the other hand, it should be noted that the strict penalization of early pensions places workers in a very disadvantageous position, who are in the so-called pre-retirement age and who, in the event of a job loss that they did not intend in advance, can be permanently reduced to their pensions even though they have worked for the vast majority of their lives. The penalty set out in the bill is indeed relatively strict. Moreover, it also suggests that a possible early retirement will be reduced to three years. The minimum period of insurance required for entitlement to early retirement should also be increased from the previous 35 years of insurance up to 40 years, including replacement periods of insurance. Such a significant leap can be a complication for those who are waiting for the opportunity to retire early for whatever reason. The issue is just a short period of time that, if the amendment were adopted, workers today would have had to change their life strategy. Yes, the extension of the period is not a major problem for the current generation, according to Czech Social Security Administration data, but it could be a problem for the current younger years, which are entering the process of economic activity much later than before, at least that is the case at present. Unfortunately, with the current attitude of the five-calice to the young, this can change significantly in the future. What five-wheelers are failing and not working with at all today is an active employment policy to prevent an early and forced exit from the labour market. In that five-wheeler, she's completely failing, and apparently she's not even aware of it. She was lulled into the low unemployment rate handed over to them by the government of Andrej Babiš, and she has not touched on the labour market issue in the last year and a half. Up to one third of applicants apply for early retirement. That's a huge number that five-calibers don't do anything to. Five-calice doesn't even deal with the question of why that is, why up to one-third of people are willing to shorten their pension. From the data presented in the explanatory memorandum, it follows that people who retire prematurely are, from about two thirds, those who were employed just before they left, more than one quarter of them were registered in the employment office, and from the rest, about half of those who cared for an dependent person, and the other half were disabled. Why don't you work with this? Why do the employment authorities not work with a generation of 60 years or more in a targeted way under active employment policy? After all, it would have a high number of positive benefits, ranging from benefits for public budgets to better mental status of the older part of the population, which would still be active on business. Unfortunately, and I would like to stress this today in particular, five-calice digs trenches, ditches between pensioners and the rest of society, where on the one hand they try to give the impression that due to the legal claim of pensionists, the current working generation will not have to have decent pensions, and in addition, in the argument of five-calice they completely ignore - I personally believe that deliberately - the fact that pensions are not a charity, that pensions are something that generations of pensionists have fully deserved the years of their honest work. Today's package of measures, however, is not the first attempt to save five koalice on Czech pensioners. Today, there is an action at the Constitutional Court concerning a change in the valuation scheme, when you have deprived the average Czech pensioner of CZK 1,000 a month on average, contrary to the Czech Constitution. The reason this happened is simple. Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance, has decided to favour the Baťa deficit minus 295 billion over the responsible projection of pensions into the budget. Imagine that when planning your family budget, for example, you will not count on rent or mortgage payment expenses that you have to count on unconditionally. That, I believe, is an entirely unthinkable situation for all. This, however, occurred in the national budget for 2023. The Minister of Finance of the supposedly budgetaryly responsible coalition did not count the koruna into the planned expenditure for the extraordinary valorisation of pensions. There is a number of evidence that the Minister Stanjura was convinced that he knew about the necessary expenditures for extraordinary valorization, and that is from the expertise of his own Ministry of Finance, in which it is written about valorization. In particular, they are already mentioned in the fiscal perspective of November 2022. It was also possible to draw this information from the National Budget Board, which had already pointed out on 8 December 2022 that extraordinary Valorisation would take place in 2023. If the Minister had decided to completely ignore the suggestions from his own ministry or the National Budget Council's call, he might have even learned this information from the media or from the Chamber of Deputies meeting, where my colleagues and I have repeatedly pointed out the problem of not having the expenditure associated with extraordinary valuations. However, the Minister of Finance repeatedly did not respond to our advice, so we came - by chance only after the presidential elections - to a situation where extraordinary valorisation had been adjusted. Since the Minister of Finance did not have a crown earmarked for this expenditure, he decided, in a state of legislative emergency, to reduce the legal valorisation, even at the time when he was entitled to valorisation, and so we were in the time period to be used for administrative preparation of ministries. [[20.00 hours]] At this time, the pensioners themselves had quite logically created certain expectations regarding the increase in their pensions. Moreover, I repeat once again that this completely unprecedented preparation of each of the millions of pensioners by an average of CZK 1,000 per month occurred in a state of so-called legislative emergency, an extraordinary parliamentary procedure that has significant constitutional dimensions. In this procedure, there is a significant restriction on parliamentary, committee and, of course, opposition rights. Only the laxity of the Minister of Finance in creating the state budget was this quite extraordinary circumstance. The five-calice, with a view to its hundred and eight, voted for this unconstitutional change, thereby permanently reducing pensions for all pensioners. The argument that Czech pensioners are too bonit in relation to the average wage that they live in extraordinary luxury today compared to the rest of the population, that because of them, the Czech Republic is moving towards the Greek road, is just a stupid propaganda of elites, which did not simply leave their offices and do not know the life of normal Čech, Moravan and Slezan. Moreover, and I am stressing this once again, extraordinary valuation is not a real increase in pensions. In the context of extraordinary valuation, it is only a comparison of pensions to a price increase. Those who present that pensioners have really improved their lives due to extraordinary valorisation have not understood what is happening here in the Czech Republic in the period of falling inflation. Dear colleagues, if we wanted to talk here about real pension reform, we would have to clarify the fundamental variable that defines this pension reform. The fundamental problem within our pension system is the problem of demographics. The Czech Republic, like the vast majority of developed countries, does not have sufficient birth rates. Although the total population of the Republic is growing gradually, this phenomenon is due primarily to migration to the Czech Republic. This means that from the perspective of the age structure of the Czech Republic awaits aging. So I haven't noticed the fact that she's running a five-calice sensible family policy in the last year and a half. So it is clear that the main problem of the five-calice is already defaulting. I have not noticed any measure aimed at increasing the birth rate that would make life easier for families with children, which would increase the motivation of young people to start a family. Population ageing has a lot of serious effects in terms of public budgets, which is the primary area of my specialization. This ageing process of the population has an extremely serious convention in particular for countries that have pension funding through an ongoing system. We have that in the Czech Republic, and it means that the current generation of residents finances the pension of current pensioners, and that generations of their children are expected to finance their parents' pensions again. This system works extremely well in the case of countries where more children than the elderly are born. On the contrary, it is problematic in a situation where an ageing population manifests itself. Even in a population ageing situation, it is, of course, possible to rely on increasing labour productivity, which may partly reduce negative demographic developments, but there is, in any case, an obvious limit to this path. Moreover, in the Czech Republic, it is difficult to rely on increasing productivity in the period when the government plans to dramatically cut spending on science, research and innovation. During the period when five coalitions regularly threaten the very functioning of the business sector. The extension of the retirement age, which is now a very certain future five-calice tactic, has clear and significant limits. It is true, of course, that the probability of living only during the period of the history of the independent Czech Republic has increased significantly. There's no doubt about it. And I say thank God. On the other hand, the ability to actively perform a job is not related to the length of life, but to the length of life in health. The very life expectancy in health is much shorter and, unfortunately, it does not grow as dynamically as the probability of survival. The simple mechanical displacement of retirement age is completely unacceptable. Of course, the current situation we have in the Czech Republic today is important to actively motivate Czech pensioners to stay in the work process as long as possible. After all, it is not only good for the state of public finances, but it is also good for the citizens themselves. In the case of pensioners, it is often not only a material aspect, which is of course also important, to extend active working life in the work group and in the work that you ideally enjoy, contributes to the psychic well-being and satisfaction with the life of the elderly. Moreover, it is certainly a generation of citizens who have 60 years and more of life experience. It certainly has a different view of the world, and in many work groups it could be a significant enrichment. It just wants to work actively with employment policy, put at least one in place of neutral and finally start doing something. I stress that I am particularly talking about people who can and want to work, but this too needs to be across the street. Czech older citizens need to be motivated. Unfortunately, five-wheel drives through orders and bans without submitting any long-term plan on better use of labour offices. I have already talked about the use of active employment policy for citizens for 60 years and more. When we talk about pension reform, one of the essential things missing in the system is citizens' motivation to make their own savings. The fact is that it is in the long-term interest of the State to promote the responsibility, pragmatism and rationality of the working part of the population by increasing benefits for pension insurance. I do not understand that such essential and necessary measures are not part of what is presented as pension reform. If the five-calice pretends to want to do pension reform, it must primarily motivate current 30-year-olds to make savings. Instead, this five-calice created an environment characterised by one of the highest rates of inflation from all European Union countries and thus devalued the current savings of the vast part of the population. And not only did it deprive the workers and pensioners of their savings, but at the same time quite fundamentally reduced their confidence in creating savings that will remain preserved. The pension co-financing scheme must, by its very nature, be based on the long-term stability, prosperity of the economy and the predictability of further developments, where the country's population can be sure that it will not lose its savings over a long period of time, such as 30 years. Unfortunately, the current five-police is involved in a fundamental breach of any citizens' confidence in capital markets. I'm not going to mention the very rich history of five-caliber government parties from the '90s. All you have to do is mention today's situation. Two years in a row, two-digit inflation, with which five-calices do nothing, together with the reverse adjustments to already functioning contracts, such as the planned change in the case of building savings, decimates the trust and mood that prevails in this country. [[20.10 hours]] Of course, trust does not add to the fact that a party that is very close to neo-Marxist ideologies works within the five-calice. Nor does the fact that the five-calice plans to double real estate taxes help. So the path of the five-calice is quite opposite in this direction than it should be. Instead of motivating people to create financial reserves, saving that they can draw on retirement, it significantly demotes people and discourages them from creating equity in the form of savings in a bank account or, for example, investing in real estate. At the end of my speech, I have to comment on one more topic, which will certainly be repeated here for the next few hours. It is quite objective truth that while we were in government, the Czech Republic went through its biggest crisis in its modern history in the form of a world pandemic. Recall that millions of people were dying all over the world during this period, and perhaps the whole world has been the greatest threat since World War II. Had there not been such a major crisis, we would certainly have put forward pension reform. Which I don't want to make excuses for, I'm just reminding you of the conditions here. However, it should be made clear that the ideal time to implement pension reform has been wasted. This time was at the turn of the millennium, at a time when we were far from feeling the ageing population as we feel today. In addition, in the period when we had extraordinary revenues in the form of privatization revenues to be used for extraordinary expenditure in the form of pension reform. Therefore, I would ask all members of the government's five-wheelers and government MPs to re-evaluate parts of the speeches in which they want to criticise the ANO movement for failing to reform, in your own interest, of course, or just tear it up and ritually burn it, because these parts of the speech currently have no relevance. If you want to criticize someone, sweep your own threshold first and discuss this with your party colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat once again that what we are discussing here today in this place can only be called pension reform by someone who has heard about pension issues for the first time in his life. What is now being presented here is merely a modification of parameters which aim to deprive current and future pensioners of funds. Adjustments that are inherently inconclusive and that are set so that the costs of the desperate budgeting process of the Minister of Finance, Stanjury, bear the part of the population that is most vulnerable and which is at the same time guilty of not voting for you, the five-wheelers, for a large part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I will specify one note - Mr Richter excused until 16.30 today from today's meeting. The Minister Jurečka has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Many of the things that the Prime Minister of the ANO Group has now said could also be believed if - and now I will quote one such interesting text: "Pension reform is one of the priorities of our government, and logically, because we now know that around 2030, when the strong 1970s have begun to retire, the demographic composition of our society will be such that if we do not come up with anything by then, the problem with the sustainability of our pension system will no longer be just a threat but a harsh reality." She said Alena Schillerová in August 2019. At the same time, she also made it clear that she wanted to open a debate at government level about increasing the retirement age. It is, I suppose, probably the same Alena Schillerová, who today, the last few months, says that she will by no means allow such a debate, and speaks in this way for the YES movement. So I don't know what happened to Alena Schillerová, Minister of Finance of 2019, when everyone can look up public resources, as she talked about parameters of pension reform, about the fact that pension reform was made up of her government, her coalition colleague, and she talked about it as a pension reform, even though the proposal, which at the end of the day had no support for the ANO movement, was correct to say, so it was just a seven-parametric (?) a proposal that only meant an increase in expenditure from the pension scheme. I would like the politicians who come here to be consistent and speak in principle exactly as they did at a time when they were finance ministers and were part of a government coalition!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Madam President Alena Schillerová has a point of fact. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u10	Minister, you should just cut yourself now, I'm sorry, because that's exactly what I'm talking about! You quoted 2019, and I told you to come back 30 years after the trajectory. There you wasted and wasted the money - at the time of privatisation, at the time you should have used it! And I also told you that it was just before the pandemic broke out. Without making excuses, we were in such a massacre back then that we certainly didn't even think about pension reform. So you repeated exactly what I drew your attention to in my speech. But I understand, wagging the dog. Why don't you come and make an account of this senseless antisocial proposal that you brought here to the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u11	Another factual point - Minister Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u12	I'll take the liberty of reacting. You know, Madam President, that was 2019, and you've already been in government as a key party for almost a year and a half. Today, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I am less than a year and a half in office and I am presenting pension reform. And you were talking here in your previous act about stealing from someone, taking something from someone. So explain this in fact, when pensions grow by 30%, they have exceeded the limit of CZK 20,000, all future valuations will always be revised back to January 1st for a period of 12 months for both current and future inflation pensions. How can you say we're taking something from someone, stealing from someone? That's just not true, and it's actually nonsense. And it needs to be said that we can work with what those productive generations behind us, which we have either given birth and raised, can produce on our future pensions, or we haven't been able to raise so much of that generation, and then we have to make these parametric changes. And whether we call it retirement reform or using another terminus technique, that's not the key. The key is whether we are going to include the children and grandchildren of current pensioners as well as the ongoing system that will offer them dignified and fair pensions, and that will include the proposal. In fact, the things you asked Jana Maláčová to do that she didn't put there because she only put all the expense items. And there are two members of the government who can do something about the pension system within the interim or third pillar, either the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. You've been Secretary of Finance for four years, and you haven't done anything about the area you were responsible for!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. There are three factual points, I'll read the order. The first is Mrs Alena Schillerová, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mrs Aleš Juchelka and others. Please, your two minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u14	Minister, you have not submitted any pension reform. Don't tease yourself and read well what you brought here! Don't tell us pensions are growing here. Inflation is also rising! You don't give charity to the elderly. You were only obliged to protect their purchase through the laws in force. In January of this year, you said on the Václav Moravec series that you could not change the valorization that you could not behave in an unconstitutional way so that you would do so after the presidential election. And that Professor Nerudová you're so leaning on, you're drawing on her working group, she confirmed it this week. So please don't lie to yourself! It's not a pension reform, you're just continuing the trend you started in June. That's it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Next, with Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual remark, Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam President Schillerová beat me to it. I'll do it again. Minister, you said you were presenting a pension reform. You can't be serious. This isn't retirement reform! You just know how to tell people on networks how you are to these retired people in your government... When it suits you, you've only been here for less than two years, and you haven't actually done anything, but when it suits you, you tweet and social media and write about how your government added retirement. She only added what the law tells you to do! Nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Mr. Aleš Juchelka, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a few notes here. So what did the last government of Andrej Babiš do? Thus, for example, it increased the basic pension ratio from 9 to 10 per cent or also agreed that all seniors over 85 will have an extra thousand. You've been in the government several times, probably since 2000, and you could also submit pension reform. We've been talking about this for the last 23 years, certainly since 2000, and nothing like that has happened. And the fact that the last government didn't do anything, you're the one who's contradicting each other, Minister. So one more time. I'm here to quote what you said at the press conference where you had Danuša Nerudová beside you. I quote: "Danuše Nerudová is also the one who has led the last expert committee to change pensions here in recent years." That was in the government of Andrej Babiš. "And we didn't do anything to build everything on a green meadow. We have taken the good things that have been worked out" - I quote again - "on which there has been both professional and social agreement, and on the basis of these we have further built a draft pension reform, which I will be presenting in a moment's time." And that's your quote, those are your words you said at that three-hour press conference. So don't tell me nobody's done anything. Every government had some credit for moving it somewhere else. But at this point, we are not really discussing pension reform as such during this day, but merely changing the parameters for current old-age pensioners and for those who will retire in a few years. Why? Because you want to fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u19	Now, a factual remark from Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. I am glad that, in fact, after seven hours, the debate is finally being held on the concrete proposal for this amendment of the law, which actually covers only two specific points, which are part of the entire pension reform, which will be in the legislative process in the second half of this year. But I just want to say here, what the people here said before me, that we need to realize that we're not actually doing the state budget here, that we're filling it with a surplus here somewhere. We are trying to clog up the huge holes that are here, so that the system that this year will have the deficit of roughly more than 80 billion crowns, to which this country will have to borrow and which costs us huge financial costs within the debt service, because we do not have a long time of negative interest and that debt service will increase from CZK 50 billion to over CZK 100 billion in the next three years, and that is really the problems that are here. And again, I return to the fact that we are doing these changes in 20, 30, 40 years for children and grandchildren of current pensioners, their parents and grandparents who have been able to forgive a lot of things in their lives so that they can put them into life and raise them, pay them education, so that they will once be worthy pensions from the ongoing system. That's what needs to be realized. That's why we're doing this. My final point. It has already been said that there has been an increase of one percentage point in the base area. I don't want to compete here, who's more than that, but I'm just reminding you that in the proposal I presented, we're talking about the basic guaranteed salary not going to be 10, but 20 percent of the average wage. And one last thing. I am glad that I was able to build some things and establish not only as an exit from the Danuše Nerudová Commission, but also from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Mr. Aleš Juchelka point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you know very well that the ongoing system into which the funds from all those who pay pension insurance will enter and, on the other hand, they will go out as solidarity for all those who receive pensions, so it is plus or minus balanced. That, if you're talking about the $80 billion here, that's just the result of the failure to deal with inflation that had to pay off for two extraordinary valorizations. That's all. It's just to be real. And if you're constantly saying how we have to treat those future generations, of course I agree with you, but I also remember the generation that raised me, my mother and my grandmother. At this point, we who contribute to the ongoing system so that even they would not be beaten by the fact that they worked honestly all their lives, raised children, and in their past were those who really dragged the economy with their counterparts, those who really cared about how their children would be raised in the future, what they would give them. And I don't want to throw these extraordinary valorisations and proper valorisations into poverty, and there are more and more seniors there, just those previous generations who have been so terribly honest about making sure that we, like those generations, are having a good time. So I'm gonna turn the narrative around a little bit. And I'm sorry, I don't want to be falsely responsible here, because I hate fake, fake modesty, false responsibility, just the fact that I'm gonna unpack this whole place. Let's just and simply talk really about what's going on here today. And these are extraordinary and proper valorisation and early retirement. Why? For the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. A real remark from the Minister. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u24	The state budget and the so-called virtual pension account are one. Revenue from the collection of pension insurance is part of the revenue of the state budget and pension expenditure is part of the state budget. But if in our discussion, which we have been using for decades in the Czech Republic, we are talking about the pension account, we are talking about the virtual part of the amount of pension insurance income, the volume of expenditure, and these will exceed the deficit of CZK 80 billion this year, and I would very much like what Aleš Juchelka said to be true, that it is only now a one-time spike based on the extraordinary valorizations of last year and this year. But he's not special. This is an expenditure that is once and for all a mandatorial expenditure for the rest of the life of all those old-age pensioners to whom this pension has been granted and thus increased. We're not gonna change any of us any more. This means that the deficit system, which we estimated in the predictions, will start to fall significantly after 2030, so we started to fall significantly already. And it doesn't get to be in surplus, like in the last few years, in the last 30 years, it's gone into surplus. So that's just a description of the facts that are here. There are countries where each year only what is collected is paid for pensions and it is then paid by the point system. That means it's really a purely continuous system. In our country we are talking about an ongoing system, but at the same time very solidarity, because we supplement it with other tax revenues. But we have to realize that if we were to talk purely about what the next generation would produce, it would have to be this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Alena Schillerová. Real notes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u26	We're talking about the ongoing pension system, and that's right, because it is, and I think we agree on that, the backbone that should remain within the pension system. [[20.30 hours]] The pension system itself - I am not talking about the account at all, because there is simply no pension account and maybe it should - so we have been responsible for it over the last few years, and we are responsible for it as both the YES and the KDU-ČSL movement, for example, gave a nonsystemic element, and that is 500 crowns educational. And here's this unsystemic element, and it's there, of course, right now, and I agree with that, yes, certainly, 500 crowns on a raised child, even though it was obviously written wrong. And at this point in time, there are about seven undecided applications on the Czech Social Security Administration, which - nowadays, do not know how to deal with them. Whether it's for mommy, for daddy, and who's ever raised, and divided, and so on. So, of course, the non-systemic elements have interfered with the ongoing pension system. And maybe we should think about the fact that if we want to do something in the future, in some way, I'd say prefer those who added to the system, even thanks to birth rate, kids, well, maybe we should really make it a system element and get rid of the unsystemic ones, because the system system, it's a waste of time, the pension system, it's a mess. However, as far as the 80 billion really are concerned, this is indeed your government's responsibility and unsolved inflation. That's just it, there's no way to talk. And I would say that at this point, we should clear it of the 80 billion if you don't still want double-digit inflation here. And I believe you don't want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now, President Alena Schillerová, then again Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u28	Thank you. Minister, I hope I don't take your words seriously, that we could be even worse off here. All we could have is a system where what's chosen pays off. No way! I hope it wasn't a threat that you'll come up with something like that in two months, because you don't really know what to expect anymore. Minister, have you looked at the draft budget for 2024? Did you see there that the army is growing by 48 billion? Did you see there that your chapter only grows by about 22 if I remember correctly? After all, it's about your priorities, your government's policy, what's your priority. We support the military, we understand the commitment to NATO, but if it's not, then we just have to give priority to education that can't be cut off by 30 billion. We must prefer your resort, we must prefer transport and so on. And just strengthen the defense department as much as we can afford budget. So don't keep building budget problems just on social policy. We are obliged to pay pensions, we are obliged simply to respect the laws. And yet you do not expect that extraordinary valorisation will continue to pay off, no longer threatens according to Czech Statistical Office numbers. That means you're acting like she's supposed to be here for the next two years, but there's no indication. And what you want to do with proper valorizations will reopen the old scissors that were here when wages just started to rise. It doesn't come out right away because there's a real wage drop now, but when they start growing, the scissors are gonna open up again, and you're gonna send these people to the welfare office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Now Minister Marian Jurečka with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. Madam President, don't put that in my mouth I didn't say. I'm not scaring anybody here. We hope to have a debate at first reading, which we can also have at the expert level of facts. I have set an example that there are other states and other systems. Don't put something in my mouth I didn't say. Don't do what your President does, where he then speaks indelicately and lies. I don't think you need that. I took the liberty of taking the Treasury data here at the time you were the Treasury Secretary. And the source from 2019 says that if we add up the economic results of the pension account from 2000 onwards, we will get a loss of CZK 372.4 billion. This shows that the pension system is no longer working very well and that its reform is needed. In the long run, this is not a sustainable situation. That's why I'm saying this quote. And there's a graph, so nice. [[He's pointing.]] I say this above all for my colleague Aleš Juchelka, who said it was an emergency. So I don't know if by 2019, you were the Minister of Finance by that time for the second year, the deficits meant that there was inflation that the government wouldn't have solved, so it caused the minus CZK 372 billion. So please, let's not tell the truth, even for people who are watching it, let's name these things based on facts, specific numbers. As far as inflation is concerned, you have also probably noticed who are following information that, for example, the latest, most recent data of the Czech Statistical Office on developments behind - inflation developments between March and April - showed that inflation stopped in these data and there was a development minus 0.2 %. Let us wish for this to remain so that we do not really get into these difficult situations. And don't tell me someone's taking something from the elderly and not remembering it. That's not true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka and after him, President Alena Schillerová. In both cases, factual observations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u32	Mr. Secretary, I'm terribly sorry, but I think he came into the mailbox today, or during this week, your letter to all the old-age retirees where you're here - like, really nicely writing about it. If anyone gets into trouble, they should call various nonprofits, such as člověk in Need. You're writing here in case of executions. But here you are also writing a sentence: I would also like to introduce you to the basic idea of the upcoming pension reform. She will not touch you as current pension recipients. - That's a lie! We're gonna be dealing with a reduction in proper valorizations here today, and that's gonna affect the elderly. Because if it's approved, the next year, they'll have a lower pension calculation for proper valuations. For example, when it comes to extraordinary valorizations, you face constitutional complaints because you suddenly changed the rules in the middle of the game. And those pensioners also lost CZK 7,000 by the end of the year. Instead of 1,750, they will now receive CZK 750 in June roughly. So you're writing letters to all old-age pensioners who are 2.3 million. I don't even want to see the costs it had to cost, postage, press and so on. And in that letter, you're not telling the truth 2.3 million times.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Now, President Alena Schillerová, then Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u34	Of course, the ongoing system is moving with regard to the demographic line, given the economic situation, what economic stage we are at. All of this has a bearing on it. Then, of course, you could also name the years when it was surplus. But please, Minister, tell us, if you are defending this procedure here, tell us where the savings, which we do not agree with, will manifest themselves at the expense of our pensioners, so that this is simply the way to proceed. But tell us where the savings are, where, what you're going to achieve. What you can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Once again, I will try to explain more, more simply, that President Alena Schillerová, too, will then work really objectively with the wording. If we always valorize pensions properly on 1 January in the future, we will fully assess inflation. This principle works by always taking the period from the end of June to the end of June of the previous year and for the 12 months from the end of June to the end of June, the inflation rate will be evaluated. This will be fully reflected in the proper valorisation on January 1st. That means, what you said here at the beginning doesn't apply, nor what you said here a moment ago, that those pensioners wouldn't have been given what they deserved, based on the very same level of inflation. And inflation will be fully exposed to them on 1 January of each year over the previous 12 months, the period from June to the end of June, in full. Full disclosure. [[20.40 hours]] And the issue of real wage growth - I answer for my fellow Member Aleš Juchelka, through Mr President - will not be relevant in raising pensions for at least two or three years. The formula will play no role in this, because the decline in real wages last year and this year it is necessary that the percentage decline be balanced in the coming years. When the difference is settled, then maybe in three, in four years this parameter will start to play a role in increasing the future pension. And we're returning it to parameters that were here very long before 2018.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Jiří Mašek and Mr Aleš Juchelka are now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, colleagues. Minister, you have basically answered your final factual question at the end, but indeed Mr Juchelka here was right about the fact that these parameters are changing. And it's the average wages and counting only one-third versus one-half. So it can't be said that nothing changes and that it's from the... real, sorry, real wages. [[Voice off the microphone.]] So it can't be said that nothing's changed and that the pensioners won't be affected at all, even though you're delaying it now, that it's going to be in the current development in three or four years first. So there are changes. And I'm gonna keep more stuff for my post. However, I would like to point out that you are simply putting it out very quickly right now, because if we were to account for what did not pay off in the last extraordinary valorisation that is currently the subject of the negotiations, or at the Constitutional Court, you have already exceeded the 295 billion state budget slump. So the situation, I understand, is serious, but it can't be dealt with just at the expense of the elderly. I'm sure we have other means. For example, it is a question of whether it is really necessary to increase that 1% of the state budget spending for the military now, when spending it effectively will be about a big problem. It was originally planned for 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Aleš Juchelka and his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u40	I'll be very brief. I'll read the two sentences from the letter. I quote: "I would also like to introduce you to the basic idea of the upcoming pension reform. She will not touch you as current pension recipients." And the minister said it wouldn't really touch on the proper valorization for, like, two or three years depending on how the real wages level out. But he will, of course, touch the future, because we don't expect all those you've written to die within three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. I see no further factual point. In that case, we will continue with the priority rights. Mr Tomio Okamura will be next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the Fialův Government is presenting here in the House an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which contains only a series of parametric changes. And, of course, this is not a pension reform that the Fialův government has falsely promised. These are merely changes that will seriously damage all pension recipients, both current and future ones. The SPD movement fundamentally rejects the government's proposed increase in retirement age. We also fundamentally reject the reduction of pension valorisation and also fundamentally reject the tightening of the conditions for early retirement pension proposed by the Fialův's five-calice government and Minister of Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL. Therefore, right here at the outset, Mr President, on behalf of the SPD, I am making a motion to reject this law in the first reading, so we will vote on this proposal of mine. In fact, the proposed proposal covers, in principle, only a large-scale reduction and reduction in future pension increases and also substantially tightens, as I have already said, the conditions for early retirement. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS wants to significantly reduce the proper valorisation of pensions, where it intends to take much less into account the growth of real wages compared to the current situation, only from a third, whereas it is now by half. This will lead to an increase in income growth for average wage growth. So if real wages ever increase, because since the start of this Fialův government, they have been falling steadily for the second year, which is a sad and negative unique European context. The Fial government, namely Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, proposes to completely abolish and replace them..., proposes the government to replace them with a lower social benefit, the so-called temporary pension allowance for a period of three to six calendar months, which will not become a permanent part of the pension statement. So this will only lead to a further decline in real pensions, a large number of pensioners falling into income poverty and hitting the most low-income pensioners. It may even occur in such paradoxical situations that, in a certain year on 1 January after the withdrawal of the temporary addition and the addition of a reduced proper valuation, current pensions may fall to all their beneficiaries. In the area of early retirement, the government proposes a large tightening of access to them. Citizens will be able, on the basis of the government's proposal presented by the Fialův government, so citizens will be able to retire early until three years before they reach the standard retirement age, while now it is five years. Furthermore, the condition of the necessary period of pension insurance for entitlement to an early pension from the previous 35 years to 40 years is changed. In addition, some replacement insurance periods will be taken into account for this purpose only in the range of 80 per cent. The government proposes, respectively, a government proposal includes a tightening of the reduction and penalization of early retirement, where its percentage ratio is to be reduced uniformly by 1,5 per cent of the calculation base for each 90 days of difference between the legal age for retirement of the applicant and the submission of an early pension application. So far, this reduction is more moderate and takes account of the time that is lacking in applicants until they reach a proper retirement age. The last tightening condition on the part of the government is a severely discriminatory proposal that the percentage, i.e. the merit and higher component of the early retirement, should not be validated at all. This unfair tightening of the conditions for early retirement will damage employees in difficult professions, citizens who have worked since 18 years of age, as well as working with higher education, and will lead to a further sharp increase in the number of applications for early retirement under the current more favourable conditions, and thus further flooding of already overloaded branches of the Czech Social Security Administration. After all, we are already witnessing this. Moreover, it is completely incomprehensible why the amendment of the law does not first address the conditions for early retirement for employees in demanding professions, and then only possible adjustment of early pensions. This government draft is thus merely an effort to reduce the budget deficit, which the Fialův Government is constantly deepening, at the expense of pension recipients and by resigning to a genuine and truly beneficial pension reform. The SPD movement completely rejects this government material in its submitted form and makes its own amendments to it, which will aim to protect income and living standards of current and future pensioners. [[20.50 hours]] Basically, what Fialův's five-callices are presenting here, when I sum up, is essentially what the government wants to push for the decline in real pensions and the fall of seniors into poverty. This, of course, is rejected by the SPD and we will put forward our own amendments in the House, which ensure a dignified pension. Of course, we need to see why, in fact, or for what reason, pensioners and pension recipients have gotten or have become hostages to this incompetent Fialův government, and, as we know, as well as on the basis of a survey by the renowned American analytic company Morning Consult, Prime Minister Fiala is even the least trusted leader of all democratic states in the world. That means it's the worst in the world, in short. That means the coalition government of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates... led by the Fialův government is the worst in the world. Yes, the American renowned analysis company Morning Consult, passed through the mainstream. So basically instead of stepping down and doing harm, they continue to do it, even though they're the worst in the world, and so they just keep doing it here, incompetent government. Even Prime Minister Petr Fiala is in the credibility of citizens' politicians behind opposition leaders. This means, not another survey, and so repeated - the Center for Public Opinion Research, CVVM, confirms that the Fialův Government simply does not have confidence and should put it down and leave the reign of the opposition present. So these polls are already one after another, it's really objective completely, and the most unpopular politicians are once again behind the government. It's Mrs Pekarová Adamová, one of the top three constitutional officials elected here by the Fialův Government Five Coalition ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates. So the situation really is ruthless, and basically the citizens don't want this government five-calice Petr Fiala anymore. And even though there's such a situation where citizens are clearly and repeatedly showing that they don't want Fialův's five-police government, you're going on with these crazy antisocial designs. And we're discussing one of them right now, which means you want to rob for the second time this year, you want to rob even the current ones, even the future pensioners. For the second time this year. So, of course, it's not good. And on the one hand, you're saying you don't have the pension money, but you're not telling the truth, B, that the government doesn't have the money, because the Fialův government itself is totally incapable of you screwing up the money. And I will base this on hard data, because according to Eurostat, which is the European Statistical Office, so I assume that government politicians believe him when it comes to the European Union they love, that they trust these institutions, and I think that these numbers are objective without a doubt, that is clear, I do not doubt them, desperately, unlike Prime Minister Fiala - so according to Eurostat, the Czech Republic has the third highest inflation in Europe at all. And the Czech Republic is one of the three countries of Europe that do not have economic growth back at the pre-covid crisis level. This means that it is a completely objective fact that the government coalition KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates should simply end. And I, when I see what they're doing, what Prime Minister Fiala and members of the Purple coalition are doing - traveling around the world, outside Europe, flying in business class around the world to faraway countries, and bragging about it. So you guys are enjoying the luxury of slumber instead of finally doing something for the citizens. I could name specific examples, but I'm not gonna do it because I'm not such a loser, unlike those who name me, who, of course, didn't go anywhere like that. But I'm not gonna be embarrassed, and I'm not gonna say things like that here. But the fact that instead of working for citizens, instead of working for citizens, you're enjoying full sips of luxury and luxury with state money, it's really wrong in the situation - at least it's wrong in this situation, or it's definitely wrong in this situation to say right - when you want to take money from the poorest. And repeatedly. It's been over and over again. So I could ask what are the results of the negotiations, the trips of government Members to Japan and other exotic countries. Nothing for the citizens, zero. Zero. But let's keep going. Let's move on. Let's move on. So what I'm saying is, if they at least take an example in Japan of the fact that there's direct democracy, there's directly elected captains, mayors... But that's useless, it's like playing games on a wall. Of course, the result is zero. So I'm just saying it to the margin. Another thing is - and also if you take an example in Japan, for example, that when the minister has even a hint of scandal, he resigns immediately. He'll resign immediately. And it's the Prime Minister's, too. He resigns immediately at the slightest hint of scandal and places himself as Prime Minister. That means, that's all the stuff I thought anyone would learn. But these trips, where, of course, there's no benefit to the citizens, so of course, that's wrong. That means this is the reality. But let's really move on. I'm bumping into it on purpose because I had to laugh, totally when I heard it, like this particular case. So let's move on. And why isn't the retirement money? Why isn't there money for the elderly? Because, of course, the Fialův government manages with the worst deficit in the history of the Czech Republic and leads the Republic to bankruptcy. So not only are we, as I said, the third largest inflation ever in Europe, one of the worst countries in the long run, high above the European Union average, economic growth - one of the three countries - is not back at the level before the cod crisis due to the Fialův Government. We have food more expensive than in Poland and Germany because of the Fialův government, citizens go shopping there. It's a problem with the problem, and apparently Prime Minister Petr Fiala isn't burning at all. So, of course, it is still in a situation where the Purple Government has selected more than CZK 200 billion in taxes in total because of double-digit inflation. But of course, even though the withdrawal is higher, you're wasting the money, tens of billions, abroad, and so on. So, of course, such a minimum requirement should be here, given the law you're proposing here, to rob a pensioner, so it should be that the incompetent Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura should withdraw from the ODS immediately as administrator of the state register. And with it, the whole government. Of course, the problem is that you... The whole thing bothers me about how the Fialův government here is lying about you saying you don't have any pension money. And, as I was saying, you caused her not to be on those pensions. It's actually on them, that's what I'd say. Of course, there's money for those pensions, but it's not your priority. It's not your priority. It's not your priority. [[21.00 hours]] The management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is simply in complete disintegration. And I really reject, on behalf of the SPD, this incompetence of yours and your inability to take as hostages decent citizens of the Czech Republic and say that you don't have the money for them, when you simply owe yourself to debt, to send money to tens of billions of Ukrajinec, to debt you just do foreign expensive purchases, and everything on debt but everything on debt. That means you're gonna skin a Czech citizen. The government's five-wheelers themselves have raised their salaries here this year. Yes, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ODS, STAN and Pirates have increased their salaries here. We voted against. We voted against the SPD, and you even rejected my proposal here to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire parliamentary term. And that's the problem. Because you raise your own salaries and, on the other hand, you actually share and reduce money to people who have been honest about social security for decades and are entitled to that dignified pension. That's what's ugly. That's what a priori is unacceptable. Besides, I'm already putting my third term in a row on this motion to freeze politicians' salaries, so we're consistent. That, of course, is a problem. So that the management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala is simply in complete disintegration. The ongoing state budget deficit for 2023 reached a record historical amount of CZK 271 billion at the end of May, with a total state budget deficit of CZK 295 billion this year. It is therefore obvious that the management of public finances by the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is, as I said, in complete decay, and that the very estimate of budget revenues and expenditure has already been made in complete conflict with reality. This is the political responsibility of the incompetent Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, both from ODS. And they should just step down. The government has completely ignored the disastrous development of state budget implementation, has done nothing against it and has not done anything about it. And now you're coming up with the fact that you're punishing retired people for something, current ones and future ones, which they can't do at all. It's not their fault you guys are amateurs and you can't drive a state. The government merely relies on the tax collection of extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax, which will again be significantly lower than the budget assumption, and on the dividend from CEZ's parastate company. But we've been pointing that out. We pointed out that the tax collection, the so-called windfall tax, is going to be lower and that you're overvalued. But either way, it will, of course, not save the drastically deepening budget deficit. The astronomical deficit is mainly affected by the dilettantly set and overvalued compensation for energy traders in connection with energy price ceilings. The wholesale price of electricity has been declining by 900 euros per megawatt hour over the last 12 months, so there is no reason for any compensation. On the contrary, price ceilings must be reduced for Czech households and companies. The volume of subsidies paid to other private business entities and expenditure on government debt management has also increased dramatically. At the same time, tax collection increased significantly compared to last year. Overall, by 50 billion, for personal income tax by 26,7 %, for corporate tax by 21 percent. So significantly above the current inflation rate. The problem is therefore clearly on the side of budgetary expenditure. However, the government is not planning a real and rapid investigation at all, including the investigation of expenditure on its operation and the operation of state bureaucracy. The so-called consolidation package contains only vague and difficult to make cuts for the years 2024 and 2025. They are necessary, quick and radical steps. It is necessary to stop any remaining government expenditure of the type of overpriced foreign arms contracts worth tens of billions of crowns. Of course, the most sensible solution that could save our dramatic budgetary situation, and I have already discussed this, would be the immediate departure of the harmful Fialův government. But, of course, let's go to the pensions, let's go to the pensions. She is the Fialův Government - not only do you advocate here in this law, which we are trying to defend from the opposition here, although we are in a vast minority, there are 20 members of the SPD against the government's majority of 108, so you not only want to reduce, reduce and limit future increases in pensions, but the Fialův Government also significantly abolishes the conditions of pension savings. On the contrary, the SPD proposes extending and increasing state support for pension savings. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, proposes, in the framework of a measure that misleadingly calls pension reform, a significant deterioration and tightening of the conditions of state support for voluntary pension savings of citizens. In particular, these are significant restrictions and, in some cases, up to the abolition of State contributions to this type of savings. Only those citizens who have received their savings from pension savings for ten years in instalments as a rent are to receive a new contribution from the State. If they choose them one time, they lose state support. It is a completely unfounded and discriminatory measure that punishes responsible citizens who have long been responsible for their old age. Moreover, the government wants to change other conditions of state support for pension savings. For example, increase the compulsory monthly amount of the deposit from which the State contribution is granted from CZK 300 to CZK 500 and completely withdraw this contribution from citizens who pay for pension savings even at retirement age. These are once again demotivating proposals that weaken citizens' willingness to save themselves or their children and grandchildren in retirement. On the contrary, the SPD movement proposes extending and increasing state support for pension savings. We would also provide a state contribution at monthly deposits of less than 300 crowns a month to support the low-income and younger citizens more significantly. We would also extend the state support for building savings, which the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS wants to reduce significantly. But you're basically making the whole range worse, the whole range of basically conditions for working citizens, but also for decent citizens as such. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS wants to make conditions worse for the so-called austerity consolidation package also for the payment of unemployment support to citizens who have lost their jobs in the short term and are looking for a new one or are requalifying themselves. In order to receive unemployment support in the future, it should be necessary to pay social security three months longer than it is now. Moreover, the employment office should stop providing compensation for redundant workers in the event of unpaid severance payments. The SPD movement disagrees with these proposals. Unemployment aid is an insurance benefit only for citizens who work honestly and take social insurance out of employment or business. There's no reason to lower it. Even though it can amount to a maximum of CZK 22 790 per month. The extension of the compulsory period of payment of insurance premiums for entitlement to unemployment benefit will damage the most vulnerable groups of unemployed people, who are pre-retirement persons, which is why I am talking about it here, or single parents. The termination of compensation in the event of unpaid severance payments will, in turn, adversely affect citizens with previous lower working income. By the government, this is an unnecessary and antisocial measure, which will not substantially reduce state budget spending, but will only hurt honest-working citizens who have temporarily lost their jobs in the long run. With regard to savings in the social system, the SPD considers it a priority to immediately end the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptable, i.e. persons who avoid work for a long time, even though they can work. We have already brought the law into the Chamber of Deputies twice, but the current government parties have always made it impossible to approve it. [[21.10 hours]] Well, of course, there's a lot more to the pension problems that the Fialův government is showing here. Let us be clear that the Minister of Labour Jurečka and the Fialův Government are responsible for the fact that tens of thousands of citizens were not granted pensions within a legal period. The Czech Social Security Administration, which is directly subject to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, cannot handle citizens' applications for pensions. In recent months, tens of thousands of citizens, namely 25,500 people, have not received a decision on the grant of a pension and its payment within a legal period of 90 days. It is no exception that citizens are waiting for a pension for more than six months without the Czech Social Security Administration giving them any information about the state of their application or apologizing to them. This is, of course, totally unacceptable to the SPD movement. Minister Jurečka excuses for overload and a high number of pension applications. But it is simply a complete managerial failure of the Fialův Government and a mockery to citizens. It is the duty of both the Minister and the entire government to comply in practice with the Pension Insurance Act, so that pensions are granted and paid on time. I must say that Minister Jurečka simply does not resolve this critical situation satisfactorily. On the contrary, branches of the Czech Social Security Administration, for example in Prague, are being cancelled, which, on the contrary, continues to worsen the situation. Similarly, in the light of compliance with the deadlines for payment of social support and assistance, the labour authorities, once again managed by Minister Jurečka, whose managerial inability should be a clear reason for his withdrawal from the position of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and a member of the Government, are working. So why am I saying this here? Because people who are legally entitled to pensions cannot even get the pensions they are entitled to under the Fialův Government, namely the leadership of the KDU-ČSL, which is headed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Citizens who are entitled to this, tens of thousands of citizens, are waiting for those pensions. They've been waiting months for an answer. At the same time, the government is now putting forward a bill that even those pensioners who finally have those pensions after their lifetime's work want to rob of those assumed valorisations. Even for those working people who are about to retire, you tighten the conditions for early retirement and limit the future increase in pensions. Well, it's crazy completely. It's just a crazy state. Of course, tens of billions are thrown abroad into this for spending, which does not bring anything at all to Czech citizens. For example, over 40 billion for weapons in Ukraine. The SPD claims that we are the only party here against sending weapons to Ukraine, and we support Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán. Well, you chose, the Fialův government chose, just a foreigner and a foreigner, and now, of course, you're blackmailing the Čech. When, again, I stress that it is still all on the debt that will be repaid by the next generation of our citizens. That's where we see the difference. That means you're enjoying your own sips, I've already talked about it, you'll scrape the people off your skin, but when Kiev, Brussels or Washington snap their fingers, there are Czech billions sent there, but even more to the debt. That's Fialův's five-wheeler policy - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN. Well, that's totally awful, of course. I am glad that the vast majority of Czech citizens are already seeing this, because confidence in the Fialu government has fallen to a minimum, and KDU-ČSL, in particular, has support of 3%. But I don't want to judge any more because I know how it is in politics, like on a swing, and we never know where it's going to be and how it all turns out. So I'm just assessing the current situation. And I know how hard it is, of course, and I wouldn't be more concerned here. However, it can be seen that those steps taken by the People's Party certainly have no support in society. So here's the deal. And that, with your so-called austerity package, the so-called consolidation package, the so-called recovery package, which, of course, is neither a consolidation package nor a recovery package, on the contrary, it is a harmful package, so the citizens also give me the truth. Because these proposals of yours and in front of one of them... we have him here in the House today, that's the proposal I'm talking to now. That means you want to rob all the seniors, even the future ones. In fact, all you're gonna do is make people more expensive and begging. According to STEM/MARK's current research, two thirds of citizens do not agree with the measures associated with your proposals, and this has not even felt the effects that will be much harsher and will, of course, be horrible. That's all the citizens have heard, but they haven't yet, because right now you're suggesting it. The law is yet to be passed, or you're trying to enforce it. We're defending it here, but as I say, there are 20 SPD MPs against most of us. There are few of us, but we fight. Of course, we fight for all decent citizens. And two-thirds of the citizens disagree. So I can only say that the positions of the SPD movement are identical in this respect to the majority of the Czech people's negative opinion. What the government is doing here is essentially the largest tax increase in the history of the independent Czech Republic. These are basically the worst proposals for citizens regarding pensions. Of course, these proposals as a complex will increase the absolute majority of goods and services, which will boost inflation growth. Another consequence of government measures will be a significant fall in net household income, which will affect working families with pre-school children the most, which will lose more than CZK 40,000 per year as a result of the abolition of kindergarten fees and the limitation of the possibility of using a discount on a wife. This also needs to be said out loud, of course, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, led by KDU-ČSL, which, as it were, speaks of them making a pro-family policy, as well as KDU-ČSL, the people's people, have cut off working families with children on live air. Normally a solar wound, a stab in the back. Because it is precisely the proposal of this Purple government where you propose and promote the abolition of kindergarten fees and the limitation of the possibility of using a discount on a wife. Working families, for example, with pre-school children because of this government proposal, which the folks fully support, KDU-ČSL supports him of course, are part of the government, even sitting at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so you will deprive working families with pre-school children of more than CZK 40,000 a year. So that's already a significant amount. Yeah, that's a big price to pay. It's just awful. Furthermore, the Fialův Government increases taxes on water, heat, medicines, transportation, hairdressing services, beer and much more to all citizens. So you're going to make housing even more expensive for all people, or you're going to make the availability of housing worse. That means it's cutting families with children really live. It is, of course, an absolute betrayal on all pensioners, on all decent people. So now you're gonna rob them of the pensions they've been counting on, and those who retire, you're gonna increase the retirement age over and above the border level in neighboring countries. I have to make that clear, and this needs to be remembered. Yes, it is higher than it is in Poland, Hungary, Slovakia for example. So, once again, it just proves that the Fialův government is the worst ever compared to the surrounding countries. In addition, you also plan to increase corporate taxes. This means, instead of encouraging the economy to start, you are suffocating companies, suffocating the economy. [[21.20 hours]] Well, and you're promoting the introduction of employee sickness insurance and higher taxes for businessmen and an increase in property tax by even 100 percent, which, of course, is an absolutely incredible situation, because this increase in real estate tax by up to 100 percent, so that's really, really a proposal that I really have to stop for a while. Because I would expect from the people's, KDU-ČSL it is, I have read somewhere repeatedly that your voters are mainly in the countryside. And they're often older generations. They say. Well, they live in their houses, they often die, like a partner, elderly people. So you have already reduced your pension to your grandmother, who died in the past seven hours, and repeatedly in the spring, so you have enforced a reduction in the legal valorisation they were supposed to receive since June, so you have robbed those existing pensioners by an average of CZK 1 000 a month, so you will reduce pensions to people who have been honestly worked out, and to these people who are going to take advantage of it, folks, KDU-ČSL here, and the ODS coalition, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL, so you still want to increase these people's property tax by 100 percent from that house? From their real estate where they live? To save a little money. I mean, how many cases have we seen on TV? Those people didn't even drown during the winter. Literally, it's not even from hand to mouth anymore, because they don't even have anything to take in that hand often for an adequate meal. And the last thing you're gonna do to them is, you know, maybe they're supposed to be living like relatively cheap old people, so you're gonna shut down that last loophole, and you're gonna increase their property tax. So they don't have a leak anymore. You're in charge of the KDU-ČSL, the People's Party and the ODS, the Pirates and the TOP 09 and the STAN - so you're putting all the decent people in the corner. That's crazy, isn't it? That's crazy! That's crazy. This is a crazy situation. There's no escape from the decent people anymore. They have no escape. Because of the Fialův government. Not to mention, I've already indicated here that since we are with the low-income citizens and middle-income citizens, and among them are, without a doubt, all the governments and the Czech seniors and pension recipients, that is why I am talking about this, we still have some of the most expensive food in Europe, and our citizens are going for cheaper purchases in Poland and Germany. So I've already said it here in connection with the pensioners, but also with other single mothers and others, I've said it here last spring, more than a year ago, that you have to cut VAT to at least the selected basic food to zero, following the model of Poland that did it, I think last February it introduced it. But don't take my word for it right now, I don't think they've done it since last February. Well, you didn't do anything! Nothing. So we have some of the most expensive food in Europe, and our citizens just go to Poland and Germany for cheaper shopping. Not to mention the quality of German food, for example. Why am I talking about this in relation to pensions again? Not only by making everyone's lives, even those old people's, but all the citizens', but at the same time, it's an example of your incompetent policy. Because logically, the money that citizens earn in the Czech Republic, our citizens, so the goal of any kind of competent government should be that citizens spend the money back in the Czech Republic, back into the Czech budget. But Prime Minister Petr Fiala doesn't know that. Not even these basic economic lessons. He doesn't know. Even the Treasury Secretary Stanjura doesn't know. This means that they do not see the problem in the fact that citizens spend the money they generate in the Czech Republic massively abroad into the budget of another country. The Fialův government doesn't see the problem. Well, that's incredible what you're doing here! And then you say it's not for pensions! It's not true, it's for pensions! But that shouldn't be your government here. That means, that's totally unbelievable. You get us into this, I'd say, financial carousel, a cycle where it's just one mistake after another! This is totally unbelievable! That's totally unbelievable. So, of course, everything gets more expensive, basic needs get more expensive, and, of course, we need to focus on the pirát in this regard. Because pirát are forgotten. They basically - I'm a little surprised here, I have to say to the people, I'm surprised that Minister Jurečka of the KDU-ČSL is such a spokesperson for the unpopular steps that, in my opinion, are, of course, wrong, but in any case, they are unpopular. But you're leaving the Pirates completely out of your government coalition! I'm surprised because the pirát are in charge of living! Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, Chairman of the Pirates, he has housing in the region and secure available housing and submit changes in this area. So I'm a little surprised here, and maybe it's an inspiration for you in the government coalition, which is why I'm talking about it, so you two should focus on the Pirate criticism. Because basically, Mr. Jurečka is the spokesperson for everything. All bad, all negative, of course, all the mistakes the government makes. Mr. Stanjura, he doesn't see it at all, Minister of Finance, he says it's right and right. But do not forget the pirát, who by their incompetence - President Bartoš is unable to introduce the concept of affordable housing at all. And that's been there for a year and a half. And as far as I'm concerned, the preferences are three times as big as the people's. I think that - and three times the size of the TOP 09. That if three or three times, even three times three, I'm just saying, I just want to remind you to focus on the pirát. I'm saying this on purpose, of course, even because it makes us happy when you have a little fight with each other and sneak around, but I think you're... But it's true, because as well as affordable housing, and he doesn't do his job at all. Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates. Today I read an article somewhere that he said somewhere again that he was preparing and presenting some concept of affordable housing. He's been there for a year and a half, and they said they had it ready before the election! That's what they said two years ago. They've got nothing. He's got nothing. Nothing! And just because they're playing a dead bug, and basically they're doing it cleverly because they're leaving all the wrong moves on other coalition partners, they're themselves part of the government, and, to top it all, they're silent to become the alternative and take over your other five-caliber voters in government. But I think we need to name it clearly here, and I'm naming it here that it's just that there's no housing available and there's no concept here, there's a total failure of the pirát, who have been in charge of the Ministry of Regional Development for a year and a half, and even the chairman of the Pirates is leading it! So it really needs to be said here, and it's just a fact. It's just a fact. So that's all I wanted to give you for this five-caliber advice. But you don't have to listen to my advice, because you know, like I know, a lot of five-wheelers despise me and mock me, that's okay, I'm used to being an outsider, I don't mind. I'm gonna do my little job, and I'm used to it, so I'm fine. But maybe it was like a plug, like you've got somebody out there that's parasitic on the rest of you and hiding, and yet he should make a number of major proposals and he doesn't, President Bartoš of the pirát. So that's what I'd like to say. [[21.30 hours]] Let's move on. And now, naturally, I've just gotten to the pirát. Because what do they come up with now? So instead of dealing with available housing, and they don't solve it and they don't prepare anything, and it was empty words, and obviously it won't solve it the way I see it, because it's two years before the election, and something, so obviously it's futile, it's a lie, so I can say it now, because seeing it, the five-calice, there's no major improvement in the availability of housing in the Fialův government, because Ivan Bartoš has absolutely nothing prepared. But what he's done is canceling the birth numbers and replacing them with some kind of CZK 56 billion identifier. For the astronomical 56 billion. Well, I'm not afraid to say it's a Fialův government tunnel for citizens' money. Because from next year, public authorities are to start changing citizens' native numbers as new identifiers, which will no longer contain data on the date of birth or the sex of a citizen. This includes, inter alia, the exchange of all civil and driving licences. The introduction of this system will be an enormous financial and administrative burden for the public and private sectors and its costs are estimated by experts at least CZK 56 billion. This is an entirely unjustified and expensive project that will complicate the lives of citizens and thousands of institutions and firms and will mean other senseless costs for the state at a time when public expenditure investigations must be a priority. The effect of this measure, promoted at the government level by Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates, on improving people's lives and the functioning of public administration, will be zero to negative. That's pretty obvious. For example, the Czech Insurance Association sees a great risk that the cancellation of birth numbers may mean more complex communication not only for insurance clients, but also between the state and the private sector. The protection of citizens' privacy may also be threatened. This is mainly about trying to find a job for the Fialův Government unnecessarily created and expensive Digital and Information Agency. Well, that's the new office that here against the will of the SPD - we voted against - set up the Fialův government five-calice. It's such a monument to the pirát for a billion crowns! The establishment of this new state office, up to 200 employees or 250, has a state and it will be a state, you have already set it up this year, a billion crowns to begin with. So a billion for another office, for another useless office is, and now you're looking for a filling. That means they're supposed to cancel their birth numbers and replace them with an identifier for 56 billion. Well, now you're looking for the filling at all costs. At the same time, the current system of identification of citizens using native numbers is experienced and fully operational and there is no reason to change it. To put the 56 billion in some context. So, on the one hand, the government here three months ago said that you didn't have $19 billion to valorize pensions, and you robbed all the pension recipients across the board, both disabled, elderly, widowed, and orphaned, all the pension recipients you stole about valorization, and you said you were missing $19 billion. But $40 billion for weapons on Ukraine, $56 billion to cancel their birth numbers and some kind of identifier, so you got it. That's what needs to be said. This needs to be put in context. Let me just remind you, as we have suggested here, the SPD, last spring, has repeatedly stopped drug abuse by so-called inadaptables, which are people - it has nothing to do with some skin color - they are people who are skilled, do not work in the long term, do not look for a long-term job and have made a life program out of sucking social benefits. Well, Fialův's five-coolers here turned us down on the proposal. By the way, that would bring about a billion crowns to the state register. So you support inadaptables, you want some identifier for $56 billion, but you don't have money for retirees, for single mothers, for working people? You're canceling the student discount! You even screwed the students, you reduced the fare discount for students and pensioners, that's last year's business. So you're robbing everyone, but you're handing out mountains down to those who either have nothing to do with the Czech Republic, or you sold out there, or even parasite on the system of the Czech Republic. So, of course, we see this as a big problem. And it's all in the context of what you're proposing here right now, which means you want to cut pensions, increase retirement age, because your priorities are just elsewhere. Your priority is not a Czech citizen. He's not a Czech citizen. Well, I'm not even talking about it, but of course I'm going to talk about it, and I have to comment now that the Fialův Government will continue to make the lives of Czech citizens more expensive. So for all these reasons, it is unacceptable for us to simply reduce pensions. Because the Fialův Government has supported the European Union's measures, which will significantly damage our citizens and the Czech Republic. Representatives of the governments of the EU Member States, including the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela from STAN to the Czech Republic, and representatives of the European Parliament decided at the end of March to increase the existing commitment to share in total energy consumption in 2030 from so-called renewable sources, which is solar, wind and water energy, from 32 to 42,5 %. And even according to energy analysts and experts, this is a very ambitious and difficult to implement objective that will accompany Member States' disputes in the distribution of the fulfilment of this commitment. This commitment will also lead to a further increase in electricity and gas prices and a sharp increase in public subsidies to renewable energy producers. This will increase the already enormous debt of our state. The economic disadvantage of the Czech Republic's membership in the EU is becoming increasingly apparent - I will only deliver it for the SPD. And by the way, it would be really appropriate for you to finally adopt the SPD Act on a referendum in which our citizens could reject the harmful actions of the Fialův Government, but also to vote, for example, on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the EU and the citizens themselves to decide their future in their country. Not Okamura, the citizens, let them decide. And you're stopping them. So you, on the one hand, vote after vote for each other and within the European Union, simply promote and support and make citizens' lives more expensive and, on the other hand, take the necessary ones and, in the case of pension recipients, often people who can no longer help themselves, the only income and the only chance for a decent life. Not to mention, but I will add that, with the support of the Fialův Government, the European Union has approved a significant price increase for petrol, diesel or coal. The EU Member States, including the Czech Republic represented by the representative of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, have finally approved another package of mandatory climate standards, which will start to apply from 2027 and will bring a significant price for petrol, diesel or coal for Czech citizens and companies. The Czech Government agreed with all the proposals submitted. So double-cross the citizens, again. The essence of these new European Union measures is the future senseless charging of emissions from heating buildings and road transport. These new emission allowances will cost a liter of petrol or diesel about 3 crowns. The most dramatic will be the increase in the prices of black coal for domestic heating, where an increase of at least 40 per cent can be expected. In parallel with the increase in electricity and gas prices, this is another liquidation measure for Czech households and a direct proof of the EU's economic and social harm. And, of course, the harm of the Fialův government. At the same time, this is a direct consequence of the gradual implementation of the EU Green Deal plan, which was supported in the past by Czech Prime Minister Babiš of the ANO movement, and is supported by the current Purple Government of the ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates. [[21.40 hours]] In the opinion of the SPD movement, the Czech Republic should not implement these harmful measures into its legal system and, on the contrary, we should seek to adopt a referendum law, as I have said, so that citizens can refuse these matters if the Fialův Government does not want to reject it. And speaking of spending, because we're talking about you proposing cuts in pensions, downgrades, raising retirement age, and suggesting a government coalition here today tightening up the conditions for early retirement, let's see that most citizens just think that even the support of Ukraine by the Fialův Government is just too high. And that's right, exactly what I said from the start. The CVVM's public opinion research centre has published the results of a survey that shows that more than half of Czech citizens disagree with the level of government support for Ukraine and thinks that this support is too high and extensive. Only 12 percent of Czech citizens would possibly support sending Czech soldiers to Ukraine and their direct involvement in the fights. But I'm just adding that. Here what I wanted to say is that over half of the citizens just say that your support for Ukraine is too high, too extensive. That's what we think, too, and I've been saying it from the start. And the swearings I enjoyed, the dirty things I enjoyed from some government MPs who lied to me about me for my political opinion and my completely legitimate opinion about me, so of course it was very disgusting, but I did it and I'm gonna make it. Because I'm used to those nonams, anonymous people who need to ride my name, I'm used to that today and every day. So I don't care anyway, 'cause it's not worth talking about. But I just want to say that over half the citizens of the Czech Republic already think so. So let's stop the lies that whoever's criticizing your over-supporting Ukraine is pro-Russian. Stop lying! They're desperate screams. Don't lie anymore. It's embarrassing. Do not draw attention from the fact that you are destroying the Czech Republic and that you have only 30 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and that is five pages combined. That's what I laughed at. When I posted that repeated survey on my social networks that the Fialův government had only 30 percent of its citizens' support, and now I've noticed some desperate screams by some activists supporting the five-police government, how much SPD support it says it has, and that it's smaller. Oh, yeah. But we are one movement, one side. There are five of you together. Five to one. That's a fair deal with the Fialův administration. But we've seen that here in the past in the House. So that's really ridiculous. And that's totally embarrassing. Five against one, and it still seems normal to somebody. If I were to multiply the preference of SPD times five, we're in this comparison, that would be completely different. But we're one. And one on five. So don't mix apples with pears here. This is one thing. So I just want to say that you really should stop lying here, because we are just saying this over and over again, and I say this consistently since last spring, that any financial assistance from the Czech state budget to foreign countries and foreign nationals must not take place at the expense of Czech citizens, especially their most endangered social groups, as is happening now. I'm saying it again. And I'd be waiting here for someone from the government coalition to start yelling at me again and lying that I'm pro-Russian. It's not true at all. So I'll tell you again, and you can keep the lies. I could be more specific again, but I'm gonna keep it because it doesn't make any sense. Because, of course, the biggest attacks on this side are always from folklore MPs. The People's Party always lies and attacks me the most in that sense. They always lie on social media when I say so. So Okamura is pro-Russian, pro-putin. I've never seen Putin. But those are the lies. It's the lies. It's the lies. And of course, the weaker and more desperate those sides are, the more these screams and lies they always are. And then they always file criminal charges against me, and then they go to waste. It's always the people's. There's always a criminal complaint against me. Then it's lost. Always such desperate dirt, desperate screams of some anonymous people. That's just the way it is. But I don't remember, but I'm not gonna stop at it anymore, either, of course, because I'm talking about the seniors. I'm just worried or upset that you're gonna take 3 million retired people hostage. You take three million pensioners hostage, and you justify it with completely proxy reasons. That's why I'm talking about it. I can stand it, I don't care, I sleep well. And that some KDU-ČSL writer, and there's more of them that attack me with all kinds of lies and fantasy, I don't even watch it, I don't even remember their names basically in the finals if I didn't google it backwards. But I'm used to it. It's okay. I mean, yeah, I guess that's not okay, but it's part of folk culture as political, so just keep it up. Keep it up, keep it up. I think you can keep doing that, I don't mind. And the citizens certainly see it, as we see it. So it's okay, these lies and attacks on me. But the problem is that the hostages and the victims of this policy of yours are just those 3 million pensioners who can't really help themselves. That's why I'm talking about it here, and I'm just commenting on it here, because of course I'm not hiding that my goal and my performance is to delay robbing pensioners, delaying it to reduce pensions. That's why I'm here, and that's why I'm here to discuss things in more detail. That's right. And I'm not ashamed that the SPD is defending 3 million pensioners against it. We defend them, we defend them! And we're defending not only 3 million pensioners. In fact, we are also defending other millions of citizens who are about to retire because you want to tighten them up, and you are proposing conditions for early retirement, and you want to cut back on future pension increases. That's why I'm here. And you can hate me from the government bench here, which I know a lot of them hate me, especially the folks hate me, but that's between them, not everyone, truth, not everyone, but there's just some of them that always just scream at me. But I just wouldn't care, and I wouldn't be talking about you here if you didn't have the Department of Labor and Social Affairs that just proposed these horrible suggestions that you'd just cut up families with kids on air, decent working families, retired people, disabled people. And I just can't shut up about it. I can't keep my mouth shut about it. You guys just took it from the Ministry. You took him willingly. And it is necessary because Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who also profiled herself before the 2021 election, as she said she wanted to be Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, then realized that she wasn't up to it, and then backed back, just like Mrs Richterová of the Pirates. She also said that she was the shadow minister of work and social affairs. Both of them preferred to marry, went, got elected to high positions in the House. Well, that's left over on the people's table. It's left on the people's table. So that's just the way it is. And you took it, so you're just politically responsible. So that's just the problem. Otherwise, of course, when I look at where you put the money... Well, it's been two months. It's been two months. It's been two months. You guys voted out here, Fialův's government five-wheelers, increase in arms spending, arms costs, CZK 48 billion this year. CZK 48 billion extra on debt. The Czech Republic has no money for this. The state doesn't have the money. Everything's on the line. Everything's in a huge deficit because of the Fialův government. And even more, because you promised the Američan and NATO, you're going to owe the Czech Republic even more. Instead of modernising the Gripens twice as cheap, you just want America's most expensive F-35 fighters for 100 billion. And that's just the entrance. That's just the entrance. There is a need to modernize all airports, logistics, training, everything. That's completely... another tens of billions. Just at least tens of billions more. [[21.50 hours]] So it's just astronomical sums that the Czech Republic doesn't have any money for, but you guys just bargained, you just put money on nonsense and, of course, then you say that you don't have money on decent people. Of course, because your priority is simply not a Czech citizen. So, government politicians themselves, I repeat, have increased the salaries of politicians themselves, we have voted against, but you will touch the citizens' money and steal money from them. And that's the problem. That's what I've been criticizing from the start, that you just preach water and drink wine! That's the problem. If it was from your private money, it wouldn't matter. You can take whatever you want. I certainly don't think it's the awkward screams of pirate Michálek, the MP who evaluated my hot tub as if it was some luxury to have a hot tub at home. That's hundreds of thousands of people here. So this low, this awkward level, that the expression of government MPs, the desperate screams are already decreasing, I really didn't even comment here, the particular reproach, because it's crazy. Then even representatives of government MPs came to me, because many of them, of course, lived a standard life and twisted their heads. Of course, I could name a specific party that came to me, and I appreciated it, because these are already really abnormal statements. Does the pirate Michálek here want to check on my kitchen counter or my plate or what I'm sleeping on at home or something? They want the pirát, they're actually neomarxists, they want to control us, all of us, homes, how we live and whether we live the way we live, or according to their vision of the world, share everything or what? It's just really unbelievable! The unbelievable level that some government MPs here are showing that this is not awkward for them to judge at all who has something to do at home! There are at least tens of thousands of people at home, if not hundreds of thousands even. It's just completely unbelievable! So it's just a problem. And why am I talking about this? What you are dealing with, what government Members are dealing with, and at the same time, you are robbing pensioners and those who will retire in the future, which will, of course, be done by most of us, or we will be pension recipients. Why do I say most? It's sad, but a lot of citizens are telling me that because of Fialův's government five-police pension, they don't even have to live to see each other anymore. And it's one of the most common things that citizens tell me at public meetings that they're sceptical, that they won't even live to retire because of the Fialův government. So it's not like I'm just talking about it here. I deliberately said that many may not even become the beneficiary of the pension because many citizens are convinced that they will not live to live to see their retirement because of your government. And I share this concern, I must say. I share this concern with these citizens because, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka now proposes to modify the parameters, it basically implies that the youngest people, they basically don't even see any age ceiling when we're looking at it. So basically it can be infinite completely, this increasing retirement age. On the other hand, I have to say fair and squarely that I am here for the Minister - I think I take it quite factually and leave him out of some personal commentary, because I very much appreciate that Minister Jurečka is the only minister who has actually addressed the opposition. That is true, and I will say that here because it is simply true, and we must appreciate that he has found courage, and I really do not know how to do ano, but there are regular meetings with us where we have actually been informed, we can talk about the form or timelyness of the documents, but it is simply the first minister who has discussed with us at least in some way the things that are about to be proposed around pensions. That's right. And I was involved in that last meeting, and it was a very factual negotiation, so I have to say, and I think we've discussed a lot of things and a lot of opinions there. I think we used that time very well. And we appreciate it again, Minister, I have to say this in front of everyone here that these negotiations will continue, and certainly to a large extent, or to a certain extent, it has opened up some discussion, and it has certainly dulled some sort of personal level that has sometimes been here in the fact that some communication has been created. We have a representative on the pension board, even though we have no strength there, because we have one representative, yes, we have only one, we are in a vast minority, but we just have the information, we can work with them. And I think that, thanks to this, the statements made by our Deputy Secretary Lucie Šafránková, Radim Fiala goes there, so that they are very factual and that I think that we simply do not have to agree on a lot of things, but we have also said openly, and it was the result of the very repeated negotiations that some of the things, but that is not what I am talking about here are different matters, so there were definitely some partial issues to discuss. And we said it in the media too, and I think it's a good thing that at least there is some communication going on with this crucial thing, and it's certainly a step in the right direction, that at least some discussion with someone here on a topic that is definitely important, so it started. So I have to put it plainly again that Minister Jurečka is basically the only minister who has addressed us on such a fundamental subject, but there are more, so he has actually addressed us boldly here. Not me, but the chairman of the Fiala Club, but that's okay. Radim Fiala. Why not? And I'm sure we're happy for that, because if we're dealing with it, and that's what we're dealing with in the SPD, about not politicizing, that's what we don't want, and we don't want to do it, but in order to at least move things in a partial way, we should be able to have some kind of fun. So I'm sure I have to say this here, that it can't be kept quiet again, this moment, and we're looking forward to a meeting in July, which was announced with the Minister, over other news concerning his proposal for the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. So I'm sure it is. And once again, it's certainly remarkable that, essentially, the side that I would expect from, like, some side, like the ODS, which has the highest preferences, so on the contrary, the side from the opposite pole, essentially - I think it was a good step and it certainly dulled the edges in a certain way, and it was quite a prudent step, I would say. So there's no point in discussing this any more, and in any case, we're certainly looking forward to another work meeting, and we'll certainly be happy for the information and for the further discussion of the MPSV proposals, because it's just important and it's about millions of people. But now that I'm moving on, but it's about Minister Jurečka right now, I just don't understand the priorities of the Fialův Government at all. I don't get it at all, because you just have time for everything other than solving the problems of Czech citizens. So you're here to approve a treaty about the US military presence in the Czech Republic. I don't know what you're doing, just $48 billion more. The army doesn't even know how to spend it at once so that it's really effective, that's what military experts agree on, but you will completely let go of the problems of Czech citizens who are in financial distress. You know the statistics that 40 percent - now I forgot - was the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences? - 40 percent of single mothers live in financial distress? But they don't really have a way of helping each other, do they? That's just a really big problem. And you've been doing other things around here. Of course, I'm not gonna discuss the contract anymore, because we're talking about pensions now, so, of course, as always, I'm trying to get to the point, but I'm just shaking my head over it. Allow me, as part of my speech on your government proposal to limit pension valorisation and deterioration of the conditions for early retirement and its drawing on the issue of the construction of our pension system, to think a little more widely, not only in the context of purely social policy of the state. The proposed government regulations cannot be excluded from the logic of the functioning of the pension scheme and all its contexts. And I simply consider it my duty, in addition to the criticism of government proposals and the entire government approach to pensions and pensioners, so I would also like to mention some substantial economic contexts as well as outline the idea of the SPD movement about our approaches to the adjustment of the pension system. [[2.00 hours]] So I just think for starters, if we look at this a little bit, that, in my opinion, the government has chosen, among other things, the wrong chronology of the steps taken. The possibility of early retirement without any further reduction in employees in physically demanding and stressful professions must be resolved in priority. We in the SPD have always proposed, and we insist that the list of these professions be as broad and complete as possible and drawn up on the basis of consultations with experts on occupational medicine and with doctors and health care professionals specializing in occupational diseases and the hygiene of the working environment. The SPD's movement has always demanded at all meetings that the proposal for early retirement be approved for employees in severe professions before tightening the conditions for early retirement with other pension fund payers. The reverse government procedure doesn't make sense or sense, and it's about to cause big problems. As I have already put forward, every responsible opposition political party, and that, of course, is the SPD when we criticize something, so we have to have a clear positive alternative, and here we have it. With the pension system and its potential adjustments, whether we call them pension reform or not, that is twice as true. So let's start with one short but extremely important measure. The reform of the execution system would be a crucial step towards strengthening our pension system and improving the balance of the pension account. Such a reform, which will enable people in execution to be employed on standard employment contracts for decent wages, but this does not correspond to the current situation where the so-called unforgivable minimum wage for employees in execution is significantly lower than the minimum wage. This enforcement reform should also lead to a change in the current unsatisfactory situation, where wage reductions must be administered and provided by employers, which is often costly, complex and demanding for them, especially for middle and smaller employers, and therefore do not want to employ people in executions. For example, financial or executive authorities could carry out this agenda next time. According to sociologist Daniel prokop, the annual contribution of these measures could amount to up to CZK 12 billion per year. It can be done relatively very quickly. As far as genuine and large pension reform is concerned, it is the basis of which we consider strong family policy and the promotion of birth rates in working families. If we take this seriously, it will not be necessary to increase the retirement age beyond the current 65 years, which we fundamentally reject in the SPD. I will talk about both of these matters. But for their importance, I consider it necessary to mention them in the introduction and separately. As a general rule, the question of affecting the amount of the pension account balance has more dimensions, not only on the expenditure side, where the retirement age limit is set, and therefore the current number of pensioners and the amount of pensions and their valuations, which the Fialův Government wants to reduce, but also on the neglected income side of the pension account. As a general rule, the question of affecting the amount of the pension account balance has more dimensions, not only on the expenditure side, where the retirement age limit is set, and therefore the current number of pensioners and the amount of pensions and their valuations, which the Fialův Government wants to reduce, but also on the neglected income side of the pension account. This clearly includes a parameter for the number of pension beneficiaries, which we have to increase in various ways. And it also belongs here, which the government completely ignores, the development and state of macroeconomic indicators, in the first place clearly above and the inflation rate, then the unemployment rate and secondarily also the evolution of gross domestic product volume. The government has completely resigned from these instruments, and only in public terms does it heal the elderly and take away money that they are legally and morally entitled to. For example, if inflation returns to one-digit year-on-year values, where it has been for decades until recently, there will be no need at all to use the system of extraordinary valuations in the order of tens of billions of crowns per year, and the development of the pension account will be much more sustainable. This means focusing on eliminating the causes of inflation, especially as regards commodity prices in the so-called retirement consumer basket, and then also reducing the huge budget deficit. The state and government must also pursue an active employment policy, i.e. create conditions and environments for as many citizens as possible to want and to work in a standard employment relationship, not outside or directly black. But frankly, how many times can they not be surprised? I have already spoken of hundreds of thousands of citizens in executions who cannot work for begging wages, especially when they have families and children. But we can also include massive administrative and bureaucratic barriers, demands and costs that plague smaller employers and businessmen, which often makes it impossible for them to employ people in a standard way at full employment. Let's give them some relief, listen to them in what would help them, and let's not throw the sticks at them. We're all gonna make money on this. And, of course, there is a question of wages that still lags significantly behind our western neighbours, with labor productivity being the same with us or even higher than there, and Western multinational corporations are carrying out fairy tales here, often only minimally taxed profits and non-taxed dividends, without adequately paying Czech citizens who co-create these profits to them. But in the long run, she's the alpha and omega of pro-family politics. What does that mean? More significant tax advantages for children, especially for third and other children in the family. I say this to the idea of a SPD, a higher discount on a husband or wife caring for young children, which the government is now proposing to significantly reduce, which is strictly anti-family measures by the Fialův Government. We need to help low-income working families, which means, among other things, by law, allowing tax discounts to be transferred to the tax bonus and removing the minimum annual and monthly limit for entitlement to the tax bonus, which, in turn, are relatively simple adjustments in the Income Tax Act, but would also help these people to decide whether to have another child. We have submitted these legislative proposals to the House a long time ago. Furthermore, this is a higher parental contribution. That's what the SPD suggests. Higher birth and birth rates in the third and every other child in the working family. A higher contribution to the child in these families and an increase in the limit of the life minimum coefficient from which the parent is entitled to the child allowance. Under the SPD, we believe that it will return to us many times in the future. In the opinion of the SPD, steps must be essential towards ending the current availability of housing for young families with children. I have already mentioned that the pirát, who run the Ministry of Regional Development, which is in charge of this, do nothing at all. The SPD promotes the introduction of marital loans with state guarantees, state aid for the repayment of mortgage loans at the time of parental leave, State aid for further housing, including cooperative and rental housing, State aid for further housing, including cooperative and rental housing. [[22.10 hours]] It is also necessary to carry out free transfers of buildings and land from the state to the county and municipalities and other necessary measures. The SPD proposes financial support for part-time work for pre-school parents, part-time work for lower social insurance for pre-school and school parents. We want to expand the capacity of available pre-school facilities, the contribution to school aids and leisure activities. Do not cancel the kindergarten, which the current government once again proposes and takes from the pockets of families with small children another CZK 17,300 a year, which is another anti-family measure of this Fialův government weakening the pension system as well. And let's move on. In addition to the ongoing pillar financed from compulsory pension insurance, it is necessary for the State to motivate citizens significantly, including the youngest ones, in order to ensure and prepare for old age in other complementary ways, for example through voluntary pension savings in the so-called third pension pillar. But the government is going the other way. Support for this type of security limits age and its proposed measures are rather demotivative. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the package, that is to say, the Ministry, led by Minister Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, in a package called pension reform, which, as I have already explained, is not a pension reform, and which has been published in mid-May, proposes no longer to provide a State contribution to pension savings to citizens receiving pensions in the future. Above all, it is intended to increase the limits of the monthly voluntary pension savings component from which the citizen will be entitled this state contribution, from CZK 300 to CZK 500 per month, which will harm low-income citizens, citizens who will save even more for their children and so on. On the contrary, we would also provide a public contribution to monthly deposits below CZK 300, and we would support much more significantly the pension savings of low-income working citizens and younger people, such as under 35 years of age. Because the real sense and effect of voluntary pension savings only comes when they save, thus the citizen throughout his productive life as long as possible. By the way, the problem of the third voluntary pillar does not lie in the lack of interest in it or in the acute need for some transformation of it. On the contrary, the numbers are clear. In a generation that is now missing from retirement for about ten to fifteen years, four out of five future pensioners have a voluntary supplementary pension agreement. His real defects are elsewhere, and the government is not working at all to eliminate them, even though this would be a really important and worthy reform step. Most clients conclude a contract for this supplementary insurance ten to twenty years later than would be objectively necessary. And when they close this contract, they save up to five times as much money on average as necessary to create a sufficiently high balance on their private pension account at the threshold of retirement age. For example, the economist Jaroslav Šulc analyzes this in detail. It is precisely because of the considerably lower savings amount than would be sufficient to grant a relatively low state income for life, about three quarters of the participants in voluntary savings at the end of the fund will choose one-off financial compensation. Another fifth will even be satisfied with the so-called salesman, when the state contribution will also be passed on. Only units of percent of those who voluntarily save in the third pillar decide to pay a lifetime's rent. Which is a complete fiasco, and a denial of the original purpose of this system. So let us work on changing this trend. And I have introduced some of our proposals here. The money we spend to support voluntary pension savings today will save us multiplely higher items, which we will otherwise pay to future seniors in decades on various social benefits. And a note about setting the retirement age. We have stressed many times during the SPD movement that the age limit at 65 is unbreakable and unbreakable for us, even because the average life expectancy for men is currently 76 years and 81 years for women. And even more important parameter - the time of life in health has been virtually constant for over 30 years, 62 years in men and 64 years in women. This means that the limit of 65 years for retirement is absolutely sufficient, perhaps even too high, since many people are already retired in poor health. Members of physically difficult professions now have to work for over 45 years since their former education. So it's important here that we look at that time of life in health, which has been practically constant for 30 years. Not as the government argues, the average life span. Any increase in the age of retirement, which is promoted by the Purple Government, will also lead, according to many experts and experience from abroad, to an increase in early and disability pensions and to an increase in long-term incapacity for work. as well as the deterioration of the health status of the elderly and the massive burden on the welfare system and the health system. So it will also bring more economic damage than benefit. What is also true and what is extremely important is that any pension reform is feasible and, above all, sustainable in the long term only provided that it identifies both the current government and the parliamentary opposition with its essential points, and that there is consensus on the long-term rigidity of this reform. This does not apply to current government proposals, which are, moreover, no pension reform. And we in the SPD are clearly saying that if some unacceptable changes in the pension system go through for us and for citizens, we will cancel them in the future. We should not use false arguments and demagogy in debates on the adjustment of the parameters of the pension system and unnecessarily raise concerns about the future for citizens. That's not a responsible policy. There is no collapse of the ongoing pillar of the pension system at present. Consider, for example, that the Czech Republic spends about a quarter less money on pensions in relative terms than neighbouring Poland and other European countries, including Western countries. We issue about 8 percent of gross domestic product; elsewhere it is 10 percent or more. Let's think about that. Nor is it once and for all given that adverse demographic developments will continue irreversibly for decades to come and that we will be constantly declining. This, too, is influenced by the pro-family policy that I was talking about, and by the other means that it is to be held in its hands. And it is also true that, while we can estimate relatively accurately the future mortality rate, their probability is much lower in birth forecast. Mainly because this variable is influenced by many factors, starting with the willingness of women to have children and not prefer other values through housing availability, the development of real wages and employment rates and a number of other prerequisites necessary for young families to function. I've already indicated a leccos of things in this regard. And with a slight exaggeration to estimate the development of birth rate. The current government cut more than CZK 100 billion in estimated budget revenues from year to year. And we're supposed to trust her now that she knows exactly how many babies are born in 2070? Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot mention separately and in more detail the phenomenon of the so far high tide of dividends from the Czech Republic, which ranges from 300 to 400 billion crowns year on year, and I am not talking about internal transfers within multinational companies and artificial reduction of the tax base. All of this in its entirety reduces the scope for faster growth in investment consumption, but also in wages and wages, and thus the future pensions of Czech citizens. And that's where we need to draw our attention. [[22.20 hours]] I don't know if it's because it's so quiet in here, but like it's so loud to hear that, yeah, two gentlemen talking over there, but it's really hard to hear how you're the only ones talking in the room. Well, I know it's stupid, but I want to ask you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u43	Should I ask them to keep it down? Gentlemen, I beg you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u44	I know, I'm just gonna put it this way. But it's a coincidence, because I know you guys talk quietly differently, but it's probably because you guys are the only ones talking. So I don't want to remind you of anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u45	Leave that to me. I would...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u46	I've been trying to read one page, but I can still hear it like you're three feet away from me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u47	Okay. I'll just ask the gentlemen to turn down their conversation, if necessary. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u48	You talk quietly, but it's just awful to hear right now. I don't want to blame you for anything. So all of this, in its entirety, of course, reduces the scope for faster growth in consumption and investment, but also in wages and wages, and thus the future pensions of Czech citizens. Even in this direction, we must turn our attention and with different ways and violence to reinvest their profits here, mainly through significant wage increases for their Czech employees. Given that the dividend drain is equivalent to almost half of the annual pension account volume, it is clear that if it is reduced, it could be a welcome resource for an objectively threatening deficit of this account in the fourth and fifth decades of this century, when the demographic crisis will culminate with a long fluctuations and a decline in birth rate, beginning in the early 1990s and continuing to this day. It is clear, therefore, that the ongoing pension system has not been exhausted and that it has a chance to ensure a decent life for future generations of pensioners, provided that we take systemic steps in budgetary and tax legislation in time and that we pursue a reasonable and prospective economic, social and family policy. But none of this is done by Petr Fiala's government. On the contrary, it destroys our economic and social environment and has recently chosen the pensioner as its main target, both present and future. And the Fialův Government's proposals, which we're discussing today for amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. It's just the Fialův Government proposals, and I think I'm describing it quite in detail here, and I've discussed it quite factually here, so they're just unacceptable to the SPD for all the reasons I've said, and they won't have our support. And it's not just one-sided negation on our part. On the contrary, we have our solutions and our sophisticated alternatives, which will allow a smooth future functioning of the pension system, and I have presented them in detail here. And, of course, we will introduce a whole range of our other proposals next time, because the SPD has a complete programme to address the future of the Czech Republic and a good standard of living for all of our decent citizens. So, of course, I would like to point out that I am making a motion to reject this proposal, the government bill, already at first reading, because the President has changed in the meantime, so that it is quite clear. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u49	Yes, thank you. I've also had notes that you're making this proposal. I have here signed up with Mr Hayato Okamura's factual remark. Please, you have the floor. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, within the limits of that brief factual remark, I would have defined myself in relation to the one moment of my brother Tomio's long speech, through Madam President, who was concerned with reducing the importance of the foreign journeys of our Houses of Delegation and was specific, appointed a recent journey by the House of Foreign Delegation to Japan, which was, moreover, common, coalition and opposition. And I was a member of that delegation. I can tell you that the main topic here was the negotiations on international security in a situation where the security situation on the international stage is heated, as it has not been for decades, and there is democracy against each other across the world, that is, our countries, European democracy, and Japan, North American democracy on the one hand, and those dictatorships, Russia and China, which do not respect international order and break it, on the other. So our delegation had a meeting, for example, at the Ministry of Defence in Tokyo, with members of the Security Committee, the Foreign Committee of the Japanese Parliament, with experts from the important Sasakawa Foundation in Tokyo and so on. And we talked about these very things. So I just wanted to remind you that this trip, which I personally took, certainly had a great sense of ensuring the international security of our citizens, and I believe that I also have an agreement with Members of at least opposition YES, because one of them was also a member of our delegation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And now here I have Mr. Radim Fiala's priority right. You're downloading? Okay, thank you. The Minister Marian Jurečka will perform another with priority rights. You're not gonna perform, either? So you're withdrawing your application? Thank you. And now Mr. Juchelka is in. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be ready. And before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. He apologizes to Dufek Aleš from 19.30 for work reasons, then Kott Josef from 22.00 for health reasons, Stržínek Robert takes back his apology, Teleky Róbert apologizes from 19.30 for work reasons. From the members of the government then Pavel Blažek from 20.00 hours, health reasons, and Minister Černochová from 20.00 hours for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be quite brief, short, not as long as my previous speakers, because I want to think about what is going on here, and from another point of view. What worries us here in the Czech Republic for the long term - one of the highest inflations in Europe, one of the highest energy prices in Europe, expensive food, record budget deficits and, for example, lack of medicine. And all of this is the result of this government. All of these things that I've named here are so terribly psychologically affecting the elderly and the other residents of the Czech Republic, but since these seniors are really one of the most endangered groups at the moment, and in a moment I'm going to say why and what statistics are for it, I really care, because for me, as for this government, the seniors are not just some accounting item. According to the senior emergency line, twice as many seniors want to touch life to solve their desperate situation. It's not development in the last 20 years, it's not development in five years. It's a comparison between 2021 and 2022 - in a single year of the Fialův government. And that's probably the saddest thing about the whole situation. The government is trying to blame its incompetence on one more vulnerable group after another. In addition to the elderly, it is now new, as we could read yesterday, or the day before yesterday, disability. We have a record budget deficit, and this government makes the elderly feel guilty that it's them. This is perhaps the worst thing about this government. The accusation that they're causing trouble for their grandsons and indebting them to the future. [[22.30 hours]] By calling for intergenerational solidarity, this government only required pensioners. There has been a major breakdown of understanding between generations, and I consider this to be the worst signal these public officials have put into society. Petr Fiala and some of his ministers became famous for sending signals instead of solutions. Right at the beginning of 2022, more precisely on 23 January, the Prime Minister tweeted: "The government wants and must give a clear signal that it wants to combat inflation." And I will add the rest of this tweet to ease: "We will not increase taxes overall, so we have committed ourselves to citizens in our program and in government statements." The same year, inflation increased threefold, and the suicidal mood of the elderly doubled. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, Petr Fiala's government really has the power to stimulate both inflation spiral and human despair with its signals. Everything began slowly thanks to extraordinary valorizations and culminated at the beginning of this year, when it was clear how the June extraordinary valorization would end. We filed a constitutional complaint, filed it in three parts. In our opinion, the change was in the midst of some legitimate expectation of all those who could already calculate what awaits them in June. It was in a state of legislative emergency, that is, in some legal standard, which is used very marginally and very sensitively. Thirdly, it was a bend to the Rules of Procedure because we all witnessed what was happening here in the Chamber of Deputies. And of course, it was all clearly prepared. This was confirmed by a failed candidate for Danuše Nerudová Castle. I quote: "The government has known since about October, when we economists pointed out that, in connection with high inflation, there will be a problem in January or February that it will be a major intervention in the expenditure of the state budget. I think the slowdown in pension valorization has been made late. But I can understand the government's fear of the presidential election." End of quote by Danuše Nerudová. This is absolutely outrageous! To take seniors hostages like this! And apparently, she knew that this government would do it in advance. That is why, despite the recommendations and several appeals of the National Budget Board, the government coalition did not put 20 billion in its budget for extraordinary valorisation. Because she just knew ahead. Because they politicized and politicized it all the way to the Constitutional Court. And not only did seniors break a substantial loss of trust in the state. (?) For the YES movement, I can say that we kept our promise and lodged a constitutional complaint with the Constitutional Court at the beginning of May. But what signals did this government send? For one year, Prime Minister Fiala and the Minister of Industry Síkela sent out clear signals to the energy-barons that they would do nothing against energy-expensives, and so scary they turned inflation up to almost 20 percent. After all, everything that is produced, sold, and consumed is linked to energy prices that have increased fourfold. And it is quite clear that the energy ceiling was wrong, because only ČEZ has eight times the profit compared to the previous financial year. We have dealt with food prices here several times, that they are cheaper in countries around Poland, Austria, even in Germany. And what did this government do? She became a flicker of a chain, and through a twitter account, the Minister of Agriculture lured to Lidl for 12.90 flour. That's the government's policy. Record to energy companies and promote price discounts chains. For one year, Prime Minister Fiala, along with Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka, sent out clear signals to the elderly that no one would help them with these scary prices. And it doesn't just help. Fialův's government has made the weakest group even worse. As I said, a counter-constitutional reduction in the extraordinary valorisation of pensions according to us, a plan to reduce all further valorisation, i.e. proper, and now even the abolition of the valorisation of the care allowance for those who are unable to take care of themselves. That will be the law, a small amendment to the Social Services Act, which will come to us in the House. This antisocial government even broke pride in some people and drove them to the employment office, where at least part of the housing allowance worked, paid about 250 to 260,000 a month, which is about the estimated half of those entitled to it. Instead of addressing energy prices as in the neighbouring countries of the European Union, the labour authorities were rather overwhelmed by delays in the payment of benefits. And it's delayed up to 90 days. What signal does the Fialův government give to our seniors? We would like you to probably not exist at all, because you are annoying items in the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking mainly to you, the 108 Members of the Five-Callice. You wanted too much, so you got it. But do you realize that it is also power over individual human lives? Do you realize that what you do here in the House has an impact in the final outskirts of our country, that you directly and irreversibly affect the lives of people you don't know, but you should at least feel connected to them? It's your inaction that has caused the seniors not to be able to afford drugs and food after paying for electricity and gas, and that the money they have left is fundamentally lower than it was two years ago. It is your activity that has caused them to have lower pensions. Your constant excuse for Ukraine, which causes dark fear of war to add to the existential problems of our seniors. And it's underlined by the various statements you made on social media and recently in public space. On top of all that, you're adding accusations that because of higher pensions, there would be no money for young families to increase their allowance for care or, of course, parental contribution. Are you encouraging our seniors to feel stupid and guilty? And that's what this law is all about. Of course, it has nothing to do with pension reform. It's just a change of parameters that will involve people who are or who are retiring in a few years. So what conditions will you change them? It has been said here several times, it is, of course, the conditions for early retirement. You are scandalously suggesting that instead of extraordinary valorization, which has worked here as an insurance policy for all those who cannot earn a second or third job to match their inflation, you change it for some quasi social benefit and again you say to society: pensions are a social benefit. They're not. Those old men don't come in with their hands stretched out to claim a pension. This is the entitlement part that is calculated on the basis of how many children you raise, what income you have, how long you study, how long you pay insurance and so on. It's not a social benefit! That's why I'm against the change here in these extraordinary valorizations, the law that you're making senselessly change because you're not able to do anything about inflation, and which, as an insurance policy, we run once every 15 years. Well, of course, proper valorization, so we don't agree there either, there's going to be a change again before 2018, when it's going to change from one half of real wages to one third, so it's really just going to take the standard of living of all those who are actively earning, from the seniors, that's why it was done, half of real wages, even if it's true that it doesn't apply for two or three years, because the real wages are falling. Is it true that one third of people leave (?) pensions prematurely. The analysis in the explanatory report says what kind of people they are, but there is a very lack of that B, and that is a kind of employment policy, a kind of life strategy, where we should approach those seniors, so that, in the context of employment policy, we can offer them some retraining through employment offices, where they could still do some work out of the forces that they have left. That B isn't there at all. We're just changing early pensions and their parameters hard. That is what I think should go hand in hand, just as we should talk about heavy professions, which, of course, is Pandořin's box, which we will open here in the future, but I think that if we are changing the conditions for early pensions, we should say, even for which professions we need to be better off, and if we don't go back to the institute in addition to early pensions, we should just reopen the former so-called retirement pensions. There's a hundred billion-sized hole in the state register. I don't understand why you take units from billions of pensioners and hundreds of millions of young families. Well, because they're easy targets for you. The pensioners you've reduced the valorisation of, and the mothers you might want to take away the kindergarten aren't coming to demonstrate to you in front of the Office of the Government, not even the disabled. Instead of a laborious solution to inflation and to move the national economy that you have worked hard, you are concerned with cutting aid for those who cannot do without it. This is real disrespect for people. And that, of course, will continue with the other laws. [[2.40 hours]] You think they're gonna make it. So I say no, they can't. Go sit on the emergency call line for at least one day. You realize there's a huge number of people who just need to take a little to take everything away from them. I'm talking about people who gave this country a vast majority of their time and youth, but now they can't bend to wash their feet. They're people whose fingers are shaking so they can't turn on a button. I'm talking about people who only want a little bit, but they need that little absolutely. I'm talking about people because I see people in them, not the perpetrator of minor economic damage to the state budget of Zbyněk Stanjura. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u53	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am now greeting Mrs Adámková, who is signed up with a point of fact, and I will give her the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the beautiful message of my honored colleague, Mr Juchelka, has brought about in me one thing that we are listening here repeatedly today, especially during the speeches made by Minister Jurečka. I realized that he often uses an expression that, given the elderly, is important, and that's the life span. I understand that someone was preparing it, of course. I would just like to point out that this is a term with which to gamble a little bit at present. And I understand that, of course, this is not a pension reform, it's kind of an attempt to smash a hole that was caused by irresponsibleness in that budget. But there's one thing we need to realize. If you operate with these terms, then you need to realize the time of life by birth, is this one of the tasks that is there or life in health? That's a big difference, and that's how we should count the pensions, or you, because it's your idea. We have to say, not quite good. After all, we all know well that it was 25 years ago when one paid for the insurance, and of course today it would be little and need to work with it. I understand all that. But I very strongly point out not to use promiscue expressions that are misleading, which you do not fully understand and are not explained, because we are putting, or you are putting citizens into a certain error, confusion and uncertainty, in which way they have to confront the situation, which is not explained well. So let's remember that the time of life in health is a little over 40 years, it hasn't increased at all, people are sick, they can't work, and the time of life is regionally different. So if you wanted to be completely fair, you'd have to take all of this into account. And I didn't hear that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to my colleague Pastuchová, I will make two apologies. Mrs Adámková apologizes from 23.45 for health reasons, and the Prime Minister apologises for health reasons from 23.00 pm, i.e. Petr Fiala apologises from 23.00 pm. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, Mr Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Madam President. It's, like, quarter past 11:00. This meeting was convened by President Pekarová Adamová, I assume by five coalitions, because they care so much about getting away with it, and if I count it, there are ten five-calice MPs sitting here, two ministers. Now, Minister Síkela has arrived, so three. So it's about how we listen to each other and how important this meeting is. But when the vote is taken, there will be enough Coalition Members to overrule what has been proposed, and that rejection at first reading. What I want to say in my speech is that now that I'm here in my third term and I can straighten this out, I feel like we have a government here that likes to piss people off against each other. There were no ministers to support intergenerational conflict with such vehementism. There is a government that, with a certain perverse amount of gloating, annoys children against parents and grandparents. Such a degree of cynicism and political calculus has never been here since I remember. The government's argument that it is necessary to reduce pensions, because otherwise pensionists and future pensioners will indebt their children is not only false and dangerous, but above all incredibly stupid and is a material disgrace to KDU-ČSL for taking it. And it is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the President, now the Minister, by your means, Minister Jurečka, is at the forefront of this dismemberment of families. In an attempt to please coalition partners and maintain his position, he did not hesitate to throw overboard for a moment not only one of the main values of Christian Democrats, but above all the people themselves. I'm not even talking about Christian values. The minister likes to brag about the fact that pensions for the time he is in the government exceeded an average of CZK 20,000. I've already mentioned it here in fact. But he doesn't add that it's because he and his colleagues have allowed inflation to grow to almost 20 percent, and also because so far the valorisation system has been set up to compensate the elderly for inflation. Yes, it has been like this for years, because all governments have respected the debt and gratitude of society towards our seniors. After all, the argument of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs that this growth was only there because the authors of this inflation formula did not count on such a great inflation is true, because no one really expected that there could ever be a government that would throw people and industry overboard and simply bail on the fight against inflation. So if the Minister and Prime Minister are bragging about the average pension being over 20,000 today, they should also add why. And he doesn't say a word about it in his letter, which he sent to the seniors on government spending. He may have accidentally found out that by the time he joined the government, the bread cost about 30 crowns, today it is 50 crowns and above. I'm not talking about rent and energy prices. That has been said many times. In this regard, too, the government has recommended to people who have worked and paid taxes their entire lives, whether they jump for support in front of a worker or choose their life savings to improve their pension. This government repeatedly haunts young people and middle - aged people and tells them that if their parents are to have a dignified pension, they will have to earn money from it. Very empathetic expression. On the radio about the day before yesterday I heard that everyone should save at least 2 million crowns, 2 million crowns for those 20 years out of this life - thank you very much to Professor Adámková, through you, because I think that as health professionals we know how many 81 years or 80, but how many seniors are involved, who are healthy, I don't think there are that many. So we're all supposed to save $2 million so we don't lose our pension standard. [[2.50 hours]] What's interesting is that the younger generation also says that when she gets older, if she's not lucky in life, she'll only have a minimum pension that will be difficult to get along with. Representatives of government Members also tell young people to save and invest, which they will certainly be happy to do, especially in a situation where this government is also preparing a cardiac scam on CEZ's minority shareholders. This will certainly support people's desire to invest in the Czech Republic. Minister Jurečka or Prime Minister Fiala may have never heard of it, but there has been a major called behavioral marketing for a long time. He focuses, among other things, on how people adjust their patterns of behavior in relation to what happens in society. His more cheerful point is that when the crisis starts in the Czech Republic, people start shopping in large sugar, in Britain, maybe beans in tomato sauce. But this field can also describe what happens when consumers or citizens get information that the state is not being fair or is about to take away something that they believe is right to do. Does anyone really think that young, successful, talented, and hopeful people will want to live in a state that gives them no perspective? Does the Minister really think that someone here will want to pay higher social security or taxes voluntarily, knowing that in old age he has nothing at all guaranteed? Do you really think that people will want to pay taxes to a state whose ministers are spectacularly despised by the work of their officials and at the same time change the laws and schematics to the detriment of people according to their favor? Or do you think they'll want to live in a country where science and research support are being cut? After all, those mandatory 40 years of work before people can retire, designed, means one thing. If you want to go at the age of 65, which I don't think we're going to go now, then you have to finish your studies until you're 25. So in other words, let's forget about ., docents or professors, because if you don't have property and rich parents, you're out of luck. This government amendment does not bring anything that could at least be called pension reform from afar. There are no studies and evidence that the Minister and his ministry have made decisions. Nowhere is it taken into account the change in industry, the arrival of artificial intelligence and other things that the surrounding states already expect in their pension systems. That is why I would like to say that what Minister Jurečka has put forward here is a pasquil, which is better to postpone and do it properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing you, the ten or thirteen Members of the Coalition Party, and I ask why you have not addressed inflation? Why do you tolerate expensive? Why do you keep thinking about who to pick up? Retirement workers disabled, businessmen, entrepreneurs, employees, everyone. You don't solve the problems that people face today and every day. You're just looking for the easiest ways to seal holes in the state budget that you do. You don't solve causes. You let people bleed and wait for someone to figure it out for you. But it won't. You've already taken money from the pensioners once through a reduction in valorisation. Now you want to do it again. I don't know if you can imagine the life of a lonely woman, a widow who lives from 10,000 crowns, desperately waiting for any improvement. I don't know if you can imagine the life of people who live just by counting the cost of living, energy, medicine and food, that's just gonna pay for it, and that's all they have left. They don't have the money to go to the theater with a friend to buy something new to wear for an occasion like this. These are the people who worked here all their lives, who built our economy, probably many of them didn't have much money before, but at least they had some kind of life. The job. Now they've got nothing. It is a life of hopelessness that you continue to step up. That's what you've already done, but it's not enough for you, you want to keep doing it. You're such slow and cruel torturers. You produce a group of people in the Czech Republic who are basically just waiting to die. Every time they're on TV, if they still have it, and they have it to pay, they're just terrified of what you'll come up with. You're splitting up the company. You act as if pensions were a social benefit, and people who depend on them didn't deserve them, and they just want them to steal from the younger generation. It's just not like that. And when we try to protect them at least a little, you still call us populists. But protecting and helping the most threatened, that should be your job. It is the government's duty to take care of those citizens who simply cannot do it alone for various reasons. And who else is that but retired and disabled? You're supposed to help them and explain to the rest of the company why it's necessary. Of course, you're doing the opposite, you're going to kneel down on them. You're the ones who split up, you're the populists here. None of us question the need for pension reform, but it must not adversely affect those who are already retired or are just ahead of it and do not have the opportunity to prepare for the changes that you are planning and which are coming. And the fact that they are necessary should certainly not be an argument for you. You're supposed to protect the endangered groups. Everyone in the past, including you, was honored that there should be a broad political consensus on pension reform in order to ensure that the conditions for pensioners would not always change and that at least a few decades remained, or at least a few years, as the House set them up. But where is this - and once again stressing your - declaration? You're gonna push this place through, despite the clear disapproval of the opposition parties. You're not dealing with us, you're just giving us your crazy ideas, and you're wondering that we're fighting them, that we don't want to raise our hand for them, and that it's obvious that what you're going to do here is either us or somebody else's going to change. Does that seem right and dignified to you? For the most part, the proposed changes affect current pensioners. People don't know what's gonna happen, they can't get ready for it. And that's what I personally blame you most. It's not a retirement reform, even if you're playing it. The changes you make are non-systemic. You don't know how to deal with the current situation. So why do you think you can solve the future? There are still problems with the payment of benefits at the employment offices, even if they are redistributed from Prague to Brno, other regions. It's down, but the lines are still there. Insanely, you drove everyone to the Labor Office to apply for the benefits, thereby overloading the officials and employment offices. We've warned you from the beginning that the officials couldn't make it, but, of course, you ignored it again. [[23.00 hours]] What happened? The Minister replaced the Director of the Labor Office in a very dubious way, and that was your solution. I will not talk about the Czech Social Security Administration, where there are many people waiting to calculate pensions and many of them after the deadline. People who are already entitled to a pension just don't have an notice come with reminders for unpaid health insurance. You apologized for that, Minister Jurečka and Prime Minister - and that's enough? With that, do those people who are stressed out by you from the alarms of the office have enough to live and live? From your apology? That's your big failure. You're the ones who called on people to retire early. You're the reason the authorities can't handle it right now. And you're sitting here, not even listening. But you're actually suggesting to tighten the conditions for everything. Seniors don't care, you take away what you can from them, fare discounts, money, they deal with drug outages. That's your perfect respect for old age. Instead of fighting for them, Minister, you yourself come up with proposals from your ministry where to take them. You're focusing on partial steps, not pension reform. You didn't really submit any analyses and variants. You always release something, launch an information balloon or your favorite signal, and you wait for what it does. I would say that one such balloon, such as the joint accounting of spouse's pension contributions or the extension of the entitlement to widow and widow's pensions, o. k., is not a problem for me in principle. That's the nice balloon. Then there's that ugly balloon again. It's true we haven't seen it yet, but the media will tell us everything, I'm getting it from the media. It is an intervention in pension savings, when you want people who spend honest years taking money into it, not at the same time to decide on them separately. That's the ugly balloon. I might even understand it, but again, you can't do it with contracts that have already been concluded. That's the money that, yes, with the support of the state, those people saved up, but they shut it down with the fact that there are conditions. Maybe they have other plans for them. Where do you get the courage, or will you take the courage to dictate to them, for what and when to use them? What if they want to use them to warm them up or something else? Maybe they want to use your own Green Savings program for seniors to cut their energy spending. But they have no savings other than pension savings, because they've fallen on energy already. Where are they gonna get the money for an investment like this? You tell them no, you can't pay for your old-fashioned savings, you can only use them for sums. And the small amounts will fall back on the high energy costs, because they can't cut them down with one-time higher investment. Raising the retirement age. I think that's another crazy idea from your pen. You're arguing the average length of survival. But here I will repeat myself, you should argue the average length of healthy survival. Professor Adámková, through you, spoke of it here. So this paragraph, to say what healthy survival is, I'm not going to say. I dare say that now, in this House's composition, I know about many people who have worked, worked hard for a long time and haven't spent their whole lives sitting here or just in an office. Some of them worked really hard with their hands. It's like a bricklayer or a milkmaid or a cleaning lady. Throughout their lives, they have been given a low and below-average salary for the job they need, and they will also have small pensions. According to your plans, they'll work until they're 65 years old. I, if I take it that you want to make a challenging profession, I still think, as a paramedic, that it's actually all taken by the hygiene charts, and there aren't really many other professions that deserve it. I guess I could go on like this, I've got more. But I'm sure I'll be glad to hear my other colleagues express themselves here, who I think are still a lot. The meeting really started for us ordinary Members only now, so I am also happy for all the contributions I will listen to here. There's less of you here, so I see you're probably just waiting for it to go back to second reading. You've got a hundred and eight, but actually, the seniors and those who raised us, you just don't give a shit about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u57	Now Minister Jurečka is, with a factual comment, followed by Mrs Adámková with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond briefly only to the fact that Mrs Pastuchová here is giving the information really truthfully. When she spoke of the New Green Savings Light, I will just remind you that the instrument is just designed so that there will be no participation of old-age, disabled pensioners or beneficiaries of the housing allowance. That's why we designed it so that these people could take these measures so that we wouldn't address the extinguishing of the consequences, but we were dealing with the cause. A second point of fact, I dare say. When there was a sigh about the fact that, after seven and a half hours, ordinary MPs got the floor, then when I took the seven and a half hours, I talked to the Prime Minister together for about 35 minutes. The rest was primarily with priority rights from the ANO member club. So much for just some relevance of the facts that this meeting is taking place at 12 o'clock today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u59	Mrs Adámková, with a factual point. Following is Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The performance that was said leads me to one more thing. I would like to give Minister Jurečka some observations from the field and very strongly warn about what has leaked to the media. This means certain restrictions or large restrictions in the possibility of dealing with pension insurance or additional insurance. Minister, I ask you very strongly, and I ask you, for the time being, and I ask you to consider this very much. Because remember one thing. These people founded it - and these are the ones who wanted to take care of themselves - they are not the ones who would just stretch out their hand - they set up at a time when they needed to be 45 years old, they felt perfectly healthy and founded it so that they could spend the money in retirement, eventually pay extra for drugs or go on a vacation or to a spa, because not everyone can go to a cross bath. What has leaked to the media - and I firmly hope that you would not do such a stupid thing, that it is a nonsense of the media, that someone misunderstood it, that it will certainly not happen that these people who have long-term pension insurance will suddenly find themselves in such pliers that they will not be able to deal with them, or notabene who wrote the media - again I hope it is nonsense - that there will be such a penalty, let's say, for wanting to choose the full amount of pension insurance. Although now we know it's wiser to choose him in several doses. That it's not true. I'm really asking you to look at this, so it's not really true. [[23.10 hours]] As far as pension insurance and current seniors are concerned, about 70 years old, which is the time that - the responsible ones actually, they're actually getting their insurance, they really already have their intentions, like the spa, which is very important, or some dental performance that isn't fully covered by health insurance. And if there were what the media wrote, that would mean a few years of choice, that would be prevented. I hope that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Pastuchová, with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to respond briefly to the Minister, through you, about the Green Savings. You know, Minister, these seniors would like to choose the green savings now as they have, but I've been talking to him for about a month or two, hoping that my colleague or friend is looking at me, who writes to me that he applied for a pension in December or November, and I spoke to him about 14 days ago, and he doesn't have it to date. And I'm just saying, well, like, and he's saying, yeah, but I can't even ask for green savings for seniors until I have my retirement notice. So there's about two things. Well, maybe if he had the retirement savings, he'd pay for it, and then he wouldn't ask. But I'm telling the truth, they'd like to ask, yes, you gave it to them, but they can't because they don't have the notice because they've been waiting for him for five months. And some people don't have any savings. Now we've learned from the media that we're supposed to save ourselves the $2 million each who retires. I don't know who can do it at these prices right now. And the pension insurance. Like me, I've been saving or putting in retirement savings since I was 35 years old, and I can't imagine you're gonna order me to retire sometime, I don't know when you're gonna give me what you're gonna give me every month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u63	We are going back to the general debate. I'll read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Minister Bartoš apologizes from 22.45 for reasons of work and Member Šimon Heller from 23 o'clock for personal reasons. Mr. Mr. Novák. Please. Following is Mrs Hanzlíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the five-police majority has decided today to push through an emergency meeting. Again a thing that has no equivalent in the history of the Czech Republic. And if you look at history, it really doesn't. It is about the legalization of further begging of seniors in the form of the so-called slowing down of normal pension valorisation and tightening the conditions for early retirement. And, in order not to doubt the intentions of this government, let us also add to the replacement of the current rules of exceptional pension valorisation by essentially a temporary allowance, which, in its own way, will take the form of a social benefit, which is definitely unacceptable for me. According to the Minister - and unfortunately I have to say the antisocial things - Jurečka will solve the fall in the pension system and the reduction in debt. I certainly don't think so. Personally, I would expect the government to give us and, in particular, citizens of the Czech Republic a detailed account of the austerity on the part of the state that they are constantly talking about. After all, in five minutes, this government made a bold promise. But still nothing concrete. However, the trampling and general proclamation of the various ministers of this government shows that Prime Minister Fiala and Minister of Finance Stanjura are about to pass all the burden on savings in the state budget to citizens. Whether by valorizing today or by other direct or indirect taxes in the form of value added tax adjustments and other similar nonsense. After all, VAT has already gotten everyone involved in the typical way of this government's work, and in the media, we've already read what we're going to pay for when we buy goulash, and God forbid we're going to have a beer with it, just the way it's going to look. I could also understand in sufficient time that the ODS has surrounded itself with a group of political parties at the limit of eligibility, and therefore must turn the taxpayers' money into authorities and ministries that are completely useless for the operation of our state or lack their meaning in their work. Yes. It would be enough to abolish, unfortunately, unnecessary Ministry of Science and Research, because the work of this ministry instead of supporting science and research is suffocating it. Or the Ministry of European Affairs, including officials. Yesterday, I went to a fellow MEP in the European Parliament and asked him how many times as a MEP he saw our Minister for European Affairs, how many times that minister had asked MEPs for an opinion. In two and a half years, twice. And that's what Prime Minister Fiala here recently told us about how the minister will not move slowly from Brussels. So I don't know where he is in Brussels, who he's communicating with? But we are also represented by MEPs there, and they have information. But I guess our Minister for European Affairs doesn't want them. And the useless Digital Agency, for which we are still looking for the filling... And ask any mayor how he's communicating today, whether he's going to the Home Office about the registry he'll send him to the Digital Agency, and the Digital Agency will send him back. Well, that's amazing! That's a good one! So far, the money has just been poured in and the life of mayors and citizens has become complicated. You're doing great! On the one hand, you're throwing money away, and on the other hand, you want the money thrown away from the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, a separate chapter in this pension pseudoreform is a change in parameters for the so-called early retirement. This should be possible no more than three years before the retirement age is reached. People who have worked and paid contributions for 40 years could go into it. The amount received in early retirement should be reduced more than before. The solidarity base should remain the same for all, and the merit percentage reflects the years worked out, the amount of earnings contributions and the number of children. According to the amendment, the merit part should not be revised for early retirement until due date. So anyone who wants to retire early will be punished properly, but really well, even if he's already retired. Simply put, all those who need to use the early retirement instrument really need to be punished by a shortage, whether they go into the early retirement from what is called calculated in your eyes, or also for health reasons. And that's the worst part, you're punishing them for it, and fundamentally. [[23.20 hours]] Bottom line, you're increasing the lives of seniors. You bring them into poverty for one simple reason: you are not willing to start with yourself. You are unable to save state resources dedicated to your prebends and unnecessary authorities. You are not even able to draw up a functional budget for our republic. You are only able to promise impossible and let your account be paid for by the citizens of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, when are you finally gonna admit to the people you've been telling that this crazy regulation of pension rules doesn't concern them, so it's not what you said? That people who have a few years before retirement and have worked honestly all the time will recognize your whip to people? Because you're doing the worst thing you can. And that's been said here a couple of times today. You not only divide people, but you divide generations. I've already got people telling me that you're splitting up their families, that grandsons are blaming their grandparents, that they're not gonna get a pension for them someday. What's that? What have you done? You don't mind? Haven't you heard yet? I think so. That's how you divide people, caste them. You're also up against seniors and singles. They're already bitching about who he's taking from. I can't believe this! Where is the respect for those who have spent their entire lives creating the goods with which you gamble so much today? How will a young generation treat the values that generations have built before it? How? However, it is not only a reduction in pensions that will burden the lives of Czech pensioners. You're costing them drugs that, if you can even get them, that's what we're talking about here. We can do some extraordinary meetings here about expensive food, and we'll never know anything from you. Expensive energy and warmth is another problem of yours that complicates the lives of the elderly. And remember, when the YES movement here suggested that we put a stop to energy prices in time. aby prevent inflation's growth. You guys laughed at us the other day. Eventually, you did it a year later, and you did it wrong. You let businessmen make money on it. Do you remember how seniors were forced to go around the authorities to ask for help in resolving the situation that you actually created because of your own sloppyness and inability to solve the energy crisis? You're canceling the fare. So the more active people who wanted to afford to retire to friends or to culture, or God forbid to work on their earnings, they're actually out of fun. You've decided to isolate seniors at their residence. So they don't just get in our way in the streets. Otherwise, I can't imagine what's leading you to this. If you didn't make them expensive with basic food, at least in the nearest park, they could collectively sprinkle the rest of the hard bread with the birds. But they can't do that anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, to make matters worse, I know that today you are unable to pay your pensions in time and then pay them in time. And Minister Jurečka can blame it on whomever he wants. It's his responsibility. He knows very well. And he has promised several times that he will solve this situation. It's gonna be okay in a month, it's gonna be okay in two, it's gonna be okay in three. It's not okay yet. So maybe we'll hear another deadline tonight. Well, how do you think a pensioner like that doesn't get his pension in time lives? Better yet, his closest ones can help him. But what if he doesn't have any closest ones? It really doesn't take time for him to pay rent or backup on energy once, and he's already on his way. He's starting to get those lane covers, yeah, well, God forbid he's not some little businessman, 'cause that would come into a data box he can't handle. It is under stress, which in many cases ends with health problems. I can really congratulate you. That's what I call respect for old age! After all, we can also stop at why an extraordinary meeting is taking place today. You're saying - and now I'm going to quote - so that we can cut our pensions in September from January next year. Well, I will add that you make it even more difficult and obscure the environment of legislative regulation and complicate the work of the Constitutional Court, to which we have brought an action as an ANO movement on you cut off by extraordinary valorisation and theft in broad daylight. You just know that retired people are an entity that won't defend itself if a robber like that ambushes her. She spills her pockets to survive, she has no strength to defend herself. So you do with them what you see fit for your wallet. Ladies and gentlemen, let us summarize in the reflections what you are trying to promote here today and get into the next legislative process: - shorten the period before retirement can be reached to a maximum of three years; - increase the reduction intensity of the percentage notice - reduction of the percentage notice - early retirement pension; - increase the necessary pension insurance periods for early retirement from 35 to 40 years; - notvalorise the percentage of early retirement pensions until their eater reaches retirement age. Maybe they're the ones who don't go into early retirement because they want to, but they go because they can't handle it anymore because they can't do it anymore. We cannot and will not agree with these proposals. You're punishing people you should respectfully look up to. You want to cancel the rules for extraordinary valuations. I get it, you're in government, you have a majority, and you're probably convinced you're doing it right. Not for me this way. Where's the broad-proclaimed debate? Where is he? It's in your hundred and eight-member majority. We can't agree with that. You're liquidating the last confidences for seniors because of your inability to deal with inflation. You're transferring seniors to the welfare category. After all, you've been doing this for at least the last two years. And not only are you transferring them to the welfare category, you're still pushing them into the arms of the executors. For working honestly for the rest of their lives, for not having the strength to find a second or third job. Colleagues, colleagues, I have already mentioned this at the beginning of my speech. I ask this government - you hear this government well, please - that if it needs to address the problem of lack of finance, for objective or subjective reasons, it should finally start with it. She has finally drawn up a functional budget of the Czech Republic with real estimates of revenue and expenditure. Not a housenumer, lies and promises. [[23.30 hours]] She saved money to run the state, not by taking money from seniors, paramedics, firemen, policemen, self-employed people, those who save lives, those who care. It is necessary to save on the operation of unnecessary authorities. It is necessary to finally look at the warm spot, whether for Pirates or TOP 09 or KDU-ČSL. That is, parties who, according to current surveys, will not yet make it to this honored House if they run for office on their own. Even though Mr. Rychetský actually made it so that if they get together, they'll make it. It used the potential of its state-owned companies to reduce the state budget deficit. And only when they find that it is not enough in this situation, but believe me, it would be enough to deal with the current situation, so let us start a broad discussion, which will result in long-term and systemic changes. Because if you force yourself to push through what you're proposing here today, believe me, it won't survive more than one term of office. Believe it. Ladies and gentlemen, your pension reform, tax packages and other financial DIYs without reference to the advisory economic groups that you have even set up for this purpose will be for the next government - and I sincerely hope that you will no longer be in it - a primary commitment to change exactly according to the rules that I mentioned earlier. Discussion, deal, match. Not formulas from the Excel table, which results in one single number, and that's 108, because that still makes you hot. Please think of our seniors and withdraw this pointless novel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u65	Minister Síkela has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Madam, honourable Members, I would only like to make a small correction to Mr Marek Novák, who, at the outset of his contribution, criticized the Minister for European Affairs for only two and a half years from now, visited the MEPs only twice in two and a half years to ask them a question. I would like to draw his attention to the fact that the first Minister for European Affairs, Mr Mikuláš Bek, was appointed to the post on 17 December 2021 and until 4 May 2022, so it is a year and a half. I don't know if you got it wrong or if you read it wrong. Please fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u67	Through the President. Technical, factual, therefore, Mr Novák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u68	I thank the Minister for his clarification. I don't have a team like you to prepare for me, so I'm glad you're looking at me in your experience. Congratulations on getting it ready for you. Nobody prepares anything for me. I just need e-mails from the citizens and my own study of what's being presented. And, yes, it's been a year and a half, and I'm sorry about the two-and-a-half year, but I insist on it twice. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u69	I am now returning - Mrs Peštová's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I really expected, Minister... May I help you? Now I don't know if I'm gonna do this one time through, not through...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u71	No, you can go straight ahead, ministers can go straight, yes, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u72	I was expecting you to say more, like you're gonna stand up here, not just twice, but now you're gonna tell us the penzum of the work he's been doing. But in the finals, you just specified the time. That's pretty low, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u73	Mrs Hanzlíková, who can now speak, is also signed in the general debate. Mr. Mašek is following. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me quote my contribution once. It says, "I understand economists' arguments, but we can't just look at this question through numbers and through the economy." This was said by Mr Jurečka in an interview in Prima and was a question of parenting and increasing parental contribution. And I fully agree with him on this. It is incomprehensible to me, however, that the Minister is also not looking at the issue of pensioners and people of the pre-retirement age, people who have worked their whole lives taking money away from the state, helping to build the economy and develop this country. In the present proposal, we will find a completely different optics and the need to save money. So the pension will be reduced as much as possible to complicate the possibility of early retirement and in other proposals the retirement age will increase regardless of whether it will clearly mean a deterioration in the quality of their lives for current and future pensioners. Moreover, the government, which abolished the EET and deprived itself of billions a year, has set up three unnecessary ministerial posts, has the most advisors and political vice-chairmen alongside senior directors, who have not effectively addressed inflation, the energy crisis or price growth, so this government has decided to save on pensioners and to make their lives worse. The proposal we are debating now, and the other proposals that are being prepared, are not any well thought out, discussed by pension reform, but are, in fact, mostly cuts in order to save money from the state budget. Since we do not have relevant analyses, we do not know how badly they will manifest themselves in practice and affect the quality of people's lives. It is also a great assumption that they will have to be modified later anyway. The reason for this is for me that the preparation of the proposal was not sufficiently discussed, thought-out and linked to social impact analyses. At any time, everyone always agrees that a large debate is absolutely necessary on the proposal for a pension reform, but also on the parametric changes in pension systems that have negative effects on people, namely the discussion of people from different fields of science, not only in the field of economic but also sociological, health and social. This government has committed itself to proposing pension reform on the basis of a broad social debate. Today we are discussing important changes in terms of the future development of the pension system, and unfortunately there has not been a social debate. Moreover, given the seriousness of the impact of these changes on the most vulnerable population groups, consensus adjustments must also be found on both the professional and political platform. The issue of the pension system must be viewed not only from an economic point of view but also from a fair point of view. After all, the system must be set up so that people perceive that it is treated fairly. And, unfortunately, this proposal shows that economists in particular spoke about it, and the main aim was to save money regardless of the fact that current and future pensioners would pay for it. And when I talk about future pensioners, I mean really people who have only been retired for a few years and about whom we have been assured by the Minister and other members of the government that they will not be touched. Many times in the public space from the government, it was said that parametric changes in pensions would affect people under 40 years of age, later it was said under 45 years of age, for the clear reason that older citizens who are already pre-retired would no longer be able to adapt to change without causing any harm to them. And the result? Serious changes in the current proposal concern people who are just before retirement. And that is really unacceptable for us. [[23.40 hours]] As a major problem for the press, I see changes in early retirement. I'm not going to repeat all these changes here, I just want to stress that it's a few changes. And I must say that I agree with the adjustments that will straighten the fact that there will no longer be situations where early pensions are more favourable than a proper pension, as happened in 2022. However, I cannot agree that the summary of these changes is so negative that it represents almost preventing an early retirement for a large group of people. Again, I come to the point that there is a need for a very sensitive perception of the social impact on this issue. Here I see a number of problems. One of them is a reduction in the time it is possible to retire early for three years. Indeed, I consider this restriction to be unfair and completely inadequate in view of the individual circumstances and needs of people of the pre-accession age. Each person has different health, personal and family circumstances. This should be taken into account when deciding on changes in early retirement conditions. The proposed change is too strict from this point of view. It should be noted that every person can be affected by unexpected events that force him to leave the working environment before he wishes. And we cannot close our eyes to the fact that these people have serious reasons for such a decision. According to a study by the Research Institute for Labour and Social Affairs, the early retirement decision affects several factors. The most important are impaired health, fatigue, loss of job or longer unemployment in the pre-retirement age without the prospect of getting a new job, or problems with job management. It often happens that older people are no longer able to do as much work as the employer imagines, because with age and health problems, performance decreases, sometimes they are penalized at work. In terms of today's low unemployment situation and the surplus of job vacancies, it may seem that older people do not have problems in this regard. But the practice shows something else. Although society perceives that the working stages of life are being extended, older people still encounter many prejudices, and we still lack short-term jobs, sufficient short-term jobs, shared and other flexible jobs, which help older people to stay on the labour market for a long time. Changes in early retirement are also criticized by trade unions. Vice-President of the Czech Moravian Confederation, for example, commented on this: This change will be particularly difficult for insured people, who simply are not allowed to live for health reasons or for the situation on the labour market in their region until retirement age is reached. They will receive a greater reduction in their old-age pension and, where appropriate, they will not be entitled to an early retirement at all. Many of them have no choice but to apply for welfare benefits. The savings in pension insurance will thus compensate for higher expenditure on benefits at the cost of mouths, increasing administration and feeling of injustice on the part of disabled insured persons, especially those who have spent their entire active life paying social security contributions. I believe that the right pension system should maintain accessible conditions for the possibility of individual human choice, especially in cases of difficult life situations related to disease or other disability. Unfortunately, some of the changes that are in the present press have such a negative impact that they will basically make early retirement impossible for some groups of people. As I said before, this is a conspiracy of penalization. We are already experiencing a permanent income of up to thousands of crowns lower than that of a proper number of seniors causing economic problems. And that's going to get worse. At present, both income poverty and seniors who have retired in due time and disabled pensioners are suffering. They spend most of their expenses on necessary goods, such as rent, food, energy, and medicine. And it should be borne in mind that more than 85 percent of people over 65 are fully dependent on the pension system. In the context of this issue, I consider it a big mistake that the government did not agree to adjust the parameters for early pensions associated with extraordinary valorisations at a time when it was clear that inflation would reach such high numbers. It could have prevented a situation that occurred in 2022, when early retirement became more advantageous due to exceptional valuations as a result of high inflation than a retirement in 2023 - which the MPSV itself pointed out - which increased the number of people who applied for early retirement. So, to sum up, the presented summary of early pension changes means a very difficult and unfair deterioration. A large proportion of people will virtually be excluded from the possibility of early retirement. As far as changes in proper and extraordinary valuations are concerned, let me just say that we still need to think that seniors are among the most endangered groups of people. Most of them are dependent only on old-age pensions and high inflation, high food and service prices seriously threaten them. As a result, the standard of living often declines noticeably in the elderly, and this is significantly reflected in the quality and dignity of their lives. We cannot agree with the amendments tabled because they will mean that the proportion of pensioners in income poverty will gradually increase. All that, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u75	Mr Mašek is now preparing to appear and Mr Brož is following. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen, ministers, colleagues, and colleagues, I was very curious to see what pension reform looked like. So I tried to get acquainted with the material, and I found that it was just parametric changes, nothing more than parametric changes. So the promise that this would be a pension reform - that would, of course, also take into account the income side and the fulfilment of the pension account and, of course, rationalising the payment of the pensions, their calculations and so on - has narrowed it down to changing several parameters. And the changes in parameters are clearly motivated by the acquisition of quick money, because the money is running out of money for this government, it's running out of resources. We see it every day. And here's the easiest way to touch them, and that's through pensions. You have already succeeded - and we dispute that this was an illegal journey - to reduce the legal valorisation of pensions by CZK 1,000 on average for one pensioner. You're bragging that we're adding 700 crowns anyway. There's a celebratory letter coming in, and the letter explains that you're actually dealing with everything comprehensively, that you're thinking about future generations and that you're actually adding and that it's actually great. This letter was commented by my honored colleague Mr. Juchelka, so I'm not going to deal with it any more. Some untruths were made in that letter, such as the fact that the calculation of pensions would not be affected too much, and the question of taking into account only one third of the growth in real wages during eventual valorisation may have been withheld. So there's more of these problems. Now I would like to devote myself to the individual sections as I have studied them, and I have some comments on them. For example, Section 31 reduces the possibility of early retirement from five years earlier before the due date to three years. Now, Minister, I recall our possible dispute here in the Chamber of Deputies, when we were discussing and finally half-baked early rescue pensions without sanctions. And we've had five years in the past, you've insisted on three years, but you didn't admit that you're already conceited and that you're going to pull it back on the surface for those three years. [[23.50 hours]] Yes, that's really fast money at the moment. And it's fast money in that you didn't just reduce the entitlement to three years, but you put another item to discourage those pensioners, and that's a 1.5 percent reduction in the early retirement income from the very beginning, or, as it is now 0.9 percent, then 1.2 and then 1.5 percent in the final stage. So you're trying to discourage those retirees from even considering the early retirement so that they don't get paid, which, in particular, for pensioners who have a low pension, is basically uninteresting for them to take this route, because you're basically going to take them 20 percent in three years, or they're 20 percent lower when they're three years early, which is big money for those pensioners, and they can't stand it. So then he loses his way, he often loses his job at this age, and they have no choice but to turn to the employment authorities to ask for any other support, and it's just that we're not taking it out of one pocket of that pension account, but from another pocket, just from other money, but it's still a burden for the state budget. So I don't think of this as a system solution, and most importantly, I consider it ruthless to those vulnerable people of this older age who no longer have the opportunity to be employed or can't handle the job. Furthermore, I did not understand in that section 31, why you still put up 40 years of work, or 40 years of insurance. When the OECD called for us to have or still have 35 years, which was enormously long, we were called upon to reduce it to 25 years. If it was supposed to be just an insurance policy for 40 years, for example, for a college kid who graduated from college after 2010, where the school doesn't count for a substitute period, then if we add that college student to 25 years of age, we'll add 40 years to that, we'll be 65 years old, so it's consistent with the idea of retiring proper at 68 years of age, so maybe he could then ask for those three years, but he couldn't go abroad for a few years, so he couldn't be sick for a longer period of time, because then he's getting into such early retirement parameters, that it's not even possible. So these are things that I'm sure this will often be discussed, but he may consider them unnecessary. The 1.5 percent reduction in early retirement, I've already communicated here, that's § 36. In Section 34, and this is positive, it is an increase of 500 crowns on a raised child, on which there was, of course, a consensus in the House, as well as in Section 67b, where pensions were increased in people over 85 years of age by 1 000 crowns or 100 years of age by 2 000 crowns, and here I think it is socially correct, because these people need to spend on social care perhaps a higher remuneration, so it is definitely there correctly. But I'd like to stop by Section 67, Minister. This is the paragraph where there is actually a reduction in pension of CZK 300 for pensioners, which has been in office for each year in some central authorities' apparatus of totalitarian power. And here, Minister, while I do not consider this to be a great hero for 34 years after the revolution, but that is just how it was designed, I would have asked here for additions, but to include other officials in the so-called National Front and those parties that served at that time to be affected by this under the motto when everyone, so all of them. Then I have one more comment. Minister, you had some pre-election promises in relation to the elderly, you had a government programming statement. I admire your vocabulary, you've managed to get out of it beautifully. You said we had to be realistic. So we have to be realistic in your concept means I'm gonna forget about the election vows - by the way, here seniors - and I'm gonna forget the government's programming statement. But you're being realistic because you were incompetent as a government. And you really couldn't handle the energy crisis, you couldn't handle food prices. In his speech, President Babiš said that as early as mid-February 2022, about a week before Russia's aggression in Ukraine, we called you as an YES movement to stop energy prices from producers. So the challenge was already there, and it had nothing to do with Putin and the war. The energy problems were here before. You just couldn't handle them. The result was double inflation compared to the European average and currently the third highest inflation in the European Union. And, of course, it was reflected in legal valorizations. If the inflation that you didn't tame hadn't occurred or been half, there wouldn't have been such high financial demands for those valorisations that were legal and which you are in a completely illegal way - and I believe the Constitutional Court will say so in this spirit - then you simply ripped those pensioners off about CZK 1,000 a month. So it's going to be an average of 7,000 for every pensioner this year. And once again, I would return to the said OECD, which called on the Czech Republic to unite the calculation and simplify the calculation of pensions, and to use a constant percentage of all earnings to change the conditions of entitlement, and this called on us to reduce it from the 35 years of insurance period to 25 years, which is the average in the European Union. I don't know, you guys did it for 40 years, I can't explain it, but it's part of the pressure of people not going into early retirement, that's what I was explaining. Then what you have listened to and what the OECD has also proposed is an increase in retirement age, yes. They also proposed the stabilization of pensions and the comparison of pensions or the amount of pensions in men and women, where it can be said that in this spirit the 500 crowns per child work, the increase that it equals, in most cases it is... in this case, the beneficiary of these pensions is women in larger numbers. And then the OECD also suggested looking at the early pensions, but you looked at them quite brutally from my point of view. And what the OECD was proposing was to change the distribution of the funds and strengthen the income side of the pension account. And you didn't do anything about that. And what you're preparing, but what he's gonna have in a long time and he's definitely not gonna bring you the money right now, is some kind of renewal of private and strengthening of private pension insurance. So you chose what brings the quickest money, but it brings the money at the expense of those retired people who are about to retire immediately, and you really didn't have that in your programming statements. Some of my previous speakers here said you have great power at the moment. You have it backed up by 108 mandates here in the House, but that power should also bring together responsibility. And I believe that you currently have no responsibility for the living conditions of our citizens, seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u77	Mr Brož will now appear, followed by Mr Hendrych. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-08-ps2021-067-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief in my contribution, because a lot of things have been said here. I'm not going to talk about the non-negotiable packages and proposals, I'm really going to focus on the proposal that we're discussing here.
