ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u1	11. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of defence / House print 368 - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm presenting you with a government bill that changes some laws in the field of defense. The proposal was processed first...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u3	Understood, Madam Secretary. I beg the House of Honour for peace. This applies to both the left and the right, part of the Chamber of Deputies. I beg you to keep your voice down so the secretary doesn't have to scream at you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u4	The proposal was developed as the first legislative response to Russia's aggression in Ukraine. The principle of the so-called deferred need, which was enforced in the framework of the 2002 reform of the armed forces, has been definitively terminated by this aggression. Specifically, the proposed changes concern the possibility of armed forces to intervene against drones above our bases, improving transport capabilities, such as the introduction of a military train. Furthermore, this is to enable the training of the armed forces in the facilities of state-owned enterprises and the contribution organisations of the Ministry of Defence. Furthermore, it is a modernisation of the use of data for defence purposes of the state in full according to the principle of "circumculating have documents, not citizens'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u5	I get it, I get it, I get it. Please once again, colleagues - I do not wish to summon Minister Bartoš - but I ask for peace. Please go to the lobby to sort things out. Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u6	Last but not least, it is intended to supplement the armed forces with a duty to carry out military training on the basis of a government decision. The law introduces another possibility of voluntary, voluntary! taking over the discharge of the obligation of defence. Furthermore, the attractiveness of the active backup is increased by new motivational elements and improved conditions. As you know, active backups work very well in that system, but there are still few. So recruitment and stabilization allowance, further improvement of the conditions for providing equipment. Finally, the law also amends the law of competence establishing a new institute of National Security Advisor, fulfilling our government's programming declaration. This law was approved by the Government at its meeting on 4 January 2023, by order number 1. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the cooperation of my government colleagues and their ministries here. It was a substantive and constructive debate, as the area of defence and security as an area of the Republic's life interest demands, and it has helped greatly to improve the proposed bill. I firmly believe that the debate and cooperation here in the Chamber of Deputies will be equally substantive and constructive. Finally, allow me to justify the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should give its consent to the bill at first reading, in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. We are doing this because this is a really urgent regulation, which requires accelerated efficiency in response to the fundamental changes in the security environment in Europe caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops in Ukraine. Time is very valuable and we need to start implementing the changes that this amendment will allow us to do. Thank you for your attention and for your constructive approach to discussion. I have been informed by my colleagues that the representatives of the ANO movement will veto the 90th, so I will, of course, request a shortening of the deadline. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u7	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Hofmann.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u8	Hello, Madam President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to follow up on the opening words of the Minister and present the selected aspects of the draft law tabled. [[11.00 hours]] The proposed bill will enable the government to implement a number of new measures. For example, it gives citizens the opportunity to use their right to participate actively in the preparation of state defence, while maintaining the constitutional principle of civil control of the armed forces and the principle of voluntary performance of the defence obligation. At the same time, the wording of the Defence Act, the Act on the Service of Reserve Soldiers, the Act on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic and the Security of Defence of the Czech Republic does not allow the State to prepare in time and effectively to defend the state outside the state of threat or state of war. The amendment contains amendments to the following legislation - for each regulation I would like to emphasise only the most important changes. Law No 585/2004 Coll., the Defence Act, allows the use of data on citizens who have a defence obligation and thus follows the new legislative concept of data use already enshrined in Act No. 261/2020 Coll. It introduces a new institute of so-called voluntary predestination, which is a concrete measure for voluntary involvement with citizens in the preparation for defense of the state, and will at least partially allow the problem of creating a backup of the armed forces, which is indeed alarming at the moment. Following changes to the law, I consider it important to emphasise the fact that citizens' defence obligations are enshrined in Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, and in the legal order of the Czech Republic, this obligation has never been abolished. The proposed amendment to the defence law respects this constitutional fact and is based on it. Law No 45/2016 Coll., on the service of soldiers in reserve, strengthens motivational elements for soldiers in active reserve in the form of a recruitment and stabilization allowance and allows the provision of equipment and material of soldiers in active reserve and outside active service. It brings the possibility of supporting a reserve soldier who is voluntarily predestined or who is preparing to defend the state under the State Defense Act. Law No 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic, brings a strengthening of the ability of the armed forces. There are institutes in place that allow these abilities to be fulfilled, whether in the form of an exception, such as military trains or military drones, as well as in the form of a new measure. This is, for example, the protection of objects important for defending the state from drones or expanding training capacities. Law No 222/1999 Sb., on securing the defence of the Czech Republic, precises the possibility of using data important for the defence of the state and introduces the electronization of agendas. Law No 2/1969 Coll., Competent Act, strengthens the coordinating role of the Government in the field of national security by introducing the Institute of National Security Advisor in accordance with the Government's programme statement. This is a strengthening of the role of government as the supreme authority of the executive power responsible to the Chamber of Deputies and is desirable in the context of the proposed changes. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on the 30th day following the date of its publication. Finally, I would add that the Organising Committee proposed by its resolution number 123 of 25 January 2023, that the Guarantee Committee be the Defence Committee. I thank you, and as they say, happiness wishes to the ready. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur and with priority rights, I have Mr Fiala's application here. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u10	Dear colleagues, colleagues. Thank you, Madam President, thank you for the floor. We have a rather serious legal standard here, which I believe needs a wider debate, not as Minister Černochová has outlined in several sentences. I don't think it's gonna be that easy. Government bills amending four laws in the field of defence are a fundamental change in defence legislation in the Czech Republic. This bill clearly changes defence legislation for the purpose of involving citizens of the Czech Republic in the war conflict. This can be seen from most amended provisions as well as from the explanatory memorandum. For example, in the amendment of Act No. 219/1999 Coll., on Armed Forces, extends the provisions on deployment outside the territory of the Czech Republic, transport security for other states, there is included transport arrangements by extraordinary military trains and their priority by rail, or there is talk about unmanned vehicles - drones, without a weight limit of up to 20 kilograms. Similarly, it is about transport by military aircraft. As the most fundamental change in the law, I see the introduction of a new institute into the defence law, a so-called pre-determination for the addition of the armed forces. This requires only the age of 18 years, medical fitness, signature and need of armed forces. I fundamentally miss it there that in this case there is no talk of defending the Czech Republic or its citizens. There is a great risk that this institute, but not only it, could serve to send Czech citizens abroad, such as the battlefield in Ukraine. A great potential risk for Czech citizens is also a shortening of the period from delivery of the call order to take up exercise or operational deployment for up to three days. It's been 30 days so far. With the wording of the existing laws, the government and the Ministry of Defence could only activate our professional army or active backups. So the difference is clearly seen here, because with this bill proposal, the government would have at its disposal the lives of any of our citizens between 18 and 60 years of choice at the time of adoption, because this bill removes many practical obstacles to this process, thus leaving the adoption of this law to the government, leaving only a few people, not to the Chamber of Deputies, not to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to a few people. What further concerns me in this bill is the proposal that the State should be able to use various information about citizens from ministries and their subordinate bodies from various databases led by them, i.e. the drainage procedure would make it much easier. It would actually take place partly in advance. At present, the main practical issue is the collection of personal information on potential recruiters and also on medical examinations, but it can be imagined that if the Ministry stopped basing on their quality performance and made this criterion less important, citizens would have very few options to avoid being taken away. Shortening between receiving a recall order and entering operational deployment for up to three days clearly shows that the Ministry of Defence will not worry about this in certain cases. How is a person supposed to handle his personal affairs in just three days and in the meantime, even a medical examination? I want to believe that the Czech Republic remains a legal state and it would not have happened that far. But why make unnecessary preparations for such legislation that could have such practical risks for citizens of the Czech Republic? This whole bill gives a great deal of horror to a number of citizens that the concept of a professional army is abandoned and the conscription of Czech citizens between the ages of 18 and 60 is revived. The public often doesn't even know that this gate duty is still ongoing. It is obvious that the government is rapidly trying to prepare us for the start of a state-threatening crisis situation and a state of war, even without discussing it by the House, perhaps on the basis of extraordinary government measures. This is, please, very important, without discussing the House, based on the decision of several people in the government. In addition to classical defence legislation, the position of National Security Advisor is added to the draft law, which is set up in the Office of the Government. This advisor is also to be Secretary of the Security Council of the State at the same time. I see this as the biggest problem, and this function will be a very strong instrument of the Prime Minister, in particular, the government. Moreover, this function is to be evaluated financially, as is the salary of the Head of the Office of the Government, while Tomáš Pojar of the ODS already holds the previously unprecedented position of advisor to national security, which was approved by this government on 21 December 2022. [[11.10 hours]] What competence will this position have in a peaceful state and in case of state and state of war? How many employees are subordinate to him or are they planned to be subordinate to him? The Prime Minister should clearly explain this. And there is still a question as to whether such a national security adviser should rather not be elected by the House or by the whole of Parliament. Moreover, what are the qualification requirements for this function? Does he even have a top-level security clearance? And how long will his mandate be? For example, two or five years, or forever - or, as we say, forever? Finally, I would like to stress that such a comprehensive and unprecedented change in the legislation cannot be approved without prior expert discussion and, moreover, urgently propose it for approval at first reading in the regime of § 90 para. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Therefore, the SPD's parliamentary club raises an objection to this bill within the meaning of § 90 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. against the House of Deputies agreeing to this bill at first reading. I do not know if another parliamentary club will join us so that a joint veto can be given to the House press 368, but I hope so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u11	Thank you, and now - of course, it is not enough for the veto of a member of the club, the President of the club knows that. I am now opening a general debate. I have the first Mr Vích registered for the general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u12	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The honourable Member, honourable Members, basically all this was said in the speech of our President of the Radim Fiala. In short, I would just mention some of the things he did not mention in his speech. I think that the abolition of the basic military service in 2004 was simply a mistake, and no one wants to reinstate the basic military service today, but there is simply a need to respond in some way to the current situation. As a result of the abolition of the basic military service, an estimated 1.8 million citizens were not transferred and the last soldiers involved in the basic military service today are 37 years old and over. The problem is at the level of health checks in the case of levies, but it is, of course, a huge administrative problem. I organized a seminar in the last parliamentary term on Army Development, a revision of the mobilization system. The paper is here, if anyone's interested, of course I'll hand it over to him. [[Members of the Vích show the proceedings.]] You, as the current government, have decided to take a different path, but from my point of view, it is clear that some changes would simply be desirable, that is clear. So that on 107th day, if the registers open, someone for religious and other reasons would say that I'm not going to go, that's wrong, I guess we all agree on that. But I'm asking, what tables do you want to call those deputized soldiers in reserve for? Take a look at the report on the security of defence, what are the states of replenishment of the material, how you are provided by the technique of the national economy, its remuneration, material resources and so on. Now there may be three, four people who know what we're talking about. Where do you have petty officers' schools, reserve officers' schools, where you want to retrain these bookmarks for new expertise when capacity is lacking and there are no soldiers in six counties? So these are the reservations, and since I don't want to shoot all the bullets here, I think that's enough for my current performance. But in committee, I would assume a technical debate in this regard, and preferably excluding the public, and not here in the '90s. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u13	I thank the honourable Member and now I have a point of fact here, but I do not know if this is the remainder of the vote, Mrs Bělohlávková - perhaps a remnant, yes. So the next party to the general debate is Mr Ratiborský. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u14	Madam President, thank you for the floor. A serious colleague, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues, submitted a bill amending certain laws in the field of defence, is very serious and has a potential impact on the majority of the population of the Czech Republic. I therefore believe that it cannot be discussed by the House in such a way that it can agree with it at first reading. It is clear that the aggravated international situation must lead us to adopt adequate legislation on defence issues for both our state and our allies, but we should move towards such adjustments after serious debate in the framework of the ordinary legislative process, and in this very situation we should weigh each argument twice. The YES movement has long supported efforts to increase the ready-to-use approach. Our earlier proposals have adequately responded to the threats posed to our security by hostile hybrid action. For example, we are long-term in favour of supporting active advances. We have also submitted a draft law with our colleagues during this parliamentary term, which aims to create an effective system of voluntary preparation of citizens of the Czech Republic to defend the state by means of defence of defence bodies in peace, only outside the institute of voluntary takeover of the defence obligation, i.e. the system of implementing the so-called interest defence of citizens to defend the state. It is House Press No 209 and its timely discussion would certainly make sense in this context. In addition, the House is presented a Governmental draft constitutional law amending, inter alia, the Constitution of the Czech Republic and which, on some issues, has a correlation with the press currently under discussion. This is Parliament's Press 252, and in particular the issue of the transmission of the armed forces. As a constitutional law, it is intended to form a framework for some of the issues that you intend to approve here directly at first reading. This constitutional law has been presented to the House in some form for the third time. In the past and the previous parliamentary term, it was submitted with support across the political spectrum and was not finally discussed. It aims to add another purpose to the Constitution to the posting of Czech armed forces abroad or to the residence of foreign armed forces on the territory of the Czech Republic on the basis of a decision of the Government without the prior consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. That is a cardinal question which I believe needs to be dealt with first. The fact that the government has given only 7 days to the R & Dists does not contribute to the seriousness of this constitutional change. The draft constitutional law must be assessed thoroughly, in detail and comprehensively, i.e. in a proper interdepartmental commentary procedure, allowing for a thorough assessment of the impact of the proposed changes. Only then would it make sense to agree to the present law, which, among other things, also addresses the transmission of the armed forces. The proposed refinition of operational deployment has implications for the issue of the posting of armed forces, and it is therefore necessary, above all, to assess the impact of this new definition on the constitutional framework in which this is taking place, namely, whether the proposed regulation is contrary to the constitutional requirement for the posting of forces abroad, the nota bene is also the assumption that we will change it by other Houses' press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech raised one point of fact, and that was Mr Brázdil. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u16	Thank you. I would like to react in my own factual way. We're here to discuss it. It was designed in the '90s. Madam Secretary says it's very important and urgent, but she's probably alone. There's no one here who wants to sit with the '90s, I mean ministers. And I am convinced that the future new president Petr Pavel, whom I know, who I was the chief of service at the time in the airborne 22. brigade in Prostějov, with whom I jumped from the helicopter during the landing, would not have signed this. [[unintelligible]] Knowing him, this guy, although we have all kinds of opinions about him and I didn't vote for him, I'm sure he would never sign this because this is just beyond the box. That's not the way to do it, and I'm convinced how I met him there, he likes the rules, and he would never do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u17	Thank you for keeping time, and I ask that we keep to the point of fact that you are responding to the previous speaker, for this is a factual point. I'm sorry, but that's not what it meant. Another one entered in the general debate is Mr Ryba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u18	Hello. Madam President, colleagues, I would like to speak in my speech to change the law of competence, so I want to focus only on one small part of the proposed amendment, because I think that from my previous practice I understand this issue most. [[11.20 hours]] The amendment of the competence law, which is therefore a part of it and which concerns the establishment of a place of adviser - and that is before it, was not discussed by the Legislative Council of the Government because it was not in the ordinary legislative procedure, and therefore only the President of the Legislative Council of the Government took a position on it - and I will allow myself to read it beyond the material sent to the commentary procedure, beyond that, following the comments of the Head of the Office of the Government, an amendment to the competence law, which contains the establishment of a position as advisor for national security, is added. What's wrong with that? There's a few things that bother me. First of all, when I look at the explanatory report, I would say that I can agree with it, but when I look at my own proposed modification, it's a little bit different. And so, when I look at the explanatory report, the explanatory report says: "The National Security Advisor as a superior coordinator of hybrid threats, misinformation and other binding over-the-counter security issues in order to ensure closer cooperation between intelligence and security forces and effective action against misinformation and hybrid threats', whereas the actual wording in the law is much, much broader. And I will just take one sentence from the fact that "the National Security Advisor" - and now, in its original version, was - "coordinates the activities of state authorities in the area of security and defence of the Czech Republic." Well, then someone realized that his competence would be essentially the same as the competence of the Security Council of the State, and he softened it a little and said that "the National Security Advisor is involved in coordinating the activities of state authorities in the area of security and defence of the Czech Republic." These competences are much wider than those that are in the explanatory report, and I'm a little worried that it may be an effort to sort of per partes to get back to what was here before 1997, when, as you all know, there were huge floods, and it is on the basis of these huge floods that a number of analyses have been developed that agreed that if the system does not change - and this has happened - we will not help each other. There was a change in the system in the management of these events, an integrated rescue system was created, and I can say that in these analyses it is also written that if we had this system here before 1997, before the floods, we would have saved ourselves a number of dead, dozens of dead, who were here in 1997. And this text, which was implemented here at the last minute in some way, makes me a little tempted to go back to the system that was here before 1997, again. I see that I will prepare an amendment, and I believe that if we really want to comply with what we have written in the explanatory memorandum, then we would also have in this law, in this amendment what is in the explanatory memorandum, and not to expand what is not in the explanatory memorandum. I want to believe that if you really have those ideas as it sounds in the explanatory memorandum, you will not have a problem with my amendment. Let me think a little bit more about why the position of advisor is being established in the form of an amendment to the law of competence. After all, the competence law talks about setting up ministries and other central government bodies. In my opinion, the establishment of a consultant, notaben, with, say, the introduction or determination of his salary, is completely wrong and unsystemic. We could have all the counselors there. Why is it done in this way when the law itself or the amendment itself speaks of being Secretary of the Security Council of the State? There is nothing easier than the status of the State Security Council to define this position and to give it its powers. Why do we want to put it in a jurisdictional law where I think it doesn't belong at all? Maybe I get it a little bit. By wanting to, when another government comes that doesn't want to have that advisor so that she can't simply cancel it. But I don't think that's how it should be. So that's what this is about, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u19	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Koten. Before the Member arrives, I will make an apology: Minister Válek apologizes from 11 o'clock for work reasons. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and I wish everyone a good day. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I would like to make a few comments on this, because many, many arguments have already been made here by both Radim Fiala and Radek Vích and others, by your means. So I would just point out some of the possible things that are not so much addressed in this law. This is mainly material-technical security of the Army of the Czech Republic, which should have somewhere in storage in case of any conflict of course both weapons and equipment for soldiers who would join. You could say that as a basic service soldier, I had a military book and there was a note with where to start in case of mobilization. But these places don't really exist anymore, so I don't think I've found that in this version of the amendment to the legislation. Sometimes there aren't even those buildings where it was put. It was mentioned here that we are missing from the six regions of the regional military headquarters, which is also a problem. And as for the wording of the bill, I would return here to what my previous speaker said. Probably the biggest such - it can be said that the biggest comments are essentially to point 4, which reads: "In the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, there is the establishment of a post of National Security Advisor, which is the Secretary of the Security Council of the State. National Security Advisor, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, shall be appointed and withdrawn by the Government. National Security Advisor participates in the coordination of the activities of state forces in the area of security of defence of the Czech Republic and represents the Czech Republic in negotiations with foreign states and international organisations in matters related to security and defence of the Czech Republic, including obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations or institutions. National Security Advisors include salary and physical performance as head of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic." And? "The National Security Advisor is responsible for the exercise of his/her duties to the Prime Minister and, to the extent specified by the Government, is entitled to give to a civil servant classified in the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic orders for the performance of state service under the Civil Service Act." There are probably the biggest reservations about this point, because, firstly, the National Security Advisor is a very, very important position, he must not be appointed by the government. This creates only probably a suitable place for a friend who can be dumped in the event of problems and blamed on the problems he causes. The way in which this office is defined, because it is an office, makes it possible to create an almost perfect corruption system. The House must agree on this person, mostly, on national security advisors, mostly necessary for the amendment of the Constitution. There must be agreement between the ruling part of Parliament and the opposition. It should therefore enjoy general respect, especially in terms of its knowledge and abilities. At the same time, it must be sufficiently qualified for the performance of this function and must demonstrate its impartiality, concern for the security of the Czech Republic, managerial ability to the extent that it enables it to fulfil all that is permitted by the third sentence of point 4. Therefore, it is not possible to place someone who has no idea what it means and includes the security system of the state, what it includes and how it is structured in management and without organisational, managerial, negotiating and other capabilities. The requirements for it, the way in which it is selected, its office, the definition of powers towards the members of the Security Council of the State, their managed ministries, the Defence Industry Association and so on and so on, state material reserves, ČEZ and other state enterprises and institutions, as well as the corresponding responsibilities, should therefore be given by a separate law and appropriate amendments to the corresponding laws establishing these institutions. [[11.30 hours]] It is necessary to define his office by law, and he should be entitled to create something like a security cabinet in which top experts in the department would cooperate to eliminate specific security threats for a long time. So it could be here in these things - drought, migration, terrorism and so on - it could be pandemics, meteor crashes, volcano explosions, earthquakes and so on. It must have a clear period of action in position, not more than two or five years, so that's more like a question mark. It must not be too easy to recant, not to be invoked by the government, but by the House on a proposal from the government, and optimally established by co-signing the President. Otherwise, the chairing of the Security Council of the State, I would say, is probably the biggest contradiction with all due respect, because it can be said that if there were a bunch of amateurs and with the biggest amateur in charge, so it can be said that taking care of the security of the Czech Republic, it would really be experts, or it could be based on the fact that it would be an alibism of the government, so that it could then blame any failure on this advisor, and in case of trouble, it would be such a kind of thunderstorm of some failure. So that would probably be all I'd like to say to begin with here, the comments, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u21	Thank you. President Schillerová is registered with priority rights. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. As everyone here expects, I am going on behalf of the club of the ANO movement to give the veto under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the House for discussion in the shortened proceedings during the first reading. Allow me to justify this veto, and then to demonstrate to your hands, Madam Vice-President, the signatures of 52 members of the club of the ANO movement. I justify the fact that, after a meeting within the ANO club with our experts, I note that this is a relatively large intervention in defence legislation. In total, the intervention concerns five laws, four of which concern defence and one law establishing ministries and other central government bodies, so that it is not a small legislative intervention. The Government justifies the proposal for a hearing under Section 90 of the urgency, which does not arouse confidence in the fact that the material was discussed by the Government on 4 January 2023, the submission to the House took place on 20 January 2023, but the end of the collection of comments occurred - I would like to stress this now - 12. 8. 2022. So we believe that this proposal could have been submitted in the autumn of last year and discussed in the standard legislative process. That's formal. But since we want a debate, we want a debate in the committees, we want it to go through the legislative process, so this veto. I will now hand over to you, Madam Vice-President, 52 signatures from Members for the YES movement, and this is what I have done to satisfy the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u23	Yes, thank you. I'm recording the veto on this law based on the demands of two clubs. [[Member Schiller: One club, but 52 Members.]] Yes, but before that, the SPD had a club, so, of course, it's two vetoes to one law and, on the basis of 52 Members, which was announced by President Schillerová. Please, another debate is signed up by Mr Bělica.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u24	Hello. Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a large amendment to amend five laws, four of which relate directly to the area of defence, and the fifth is the regulation of the Act on the establishment of ministries and other central government bodies. The amendment contains a wide range of changes in defence legislation. There are no doubt some changes that we can agree on here without further discussion. It is, for example, an adjustment to the increase of motivational elements for soldiers in the reserve, this adjustment can, of course, only be acknowledged - the ANO movement has always supported increasing the number of soldiers, especially in the active reserve, although even here one could discuss even more significant strengthening of motivational elements - or further definition and refinement of legislation, such as the regulation of military transport security, the modification of unmanned aircraft in the Armed Forces Act and so on. After all, it is possible to agree in general with the legal anchoring of the position of National Security Advisor. I'm sure there's a point to all of this. On the other hand, the amendment also contains some changes that may mean, if we approve the amendment without further approval, that is to say, intervention in the rights not only of those who are actively, voluntarily and consciously preparing themselves for defence, such as active advances, but also of ordinary citizens' rights. All you have to do is look at the amendment to the law. Right between the first amended provisions, there is a newly introduced notification obligation on the conscription obligation for all citizens who have incurred this obligation, which is basically all citizens at the time of the acquisition of 18 years of age. As a result, this regulation will therefore mean that any citizen who is required to do so will be informed in writing. Yes, I understand that the gate obligation has been established by law for a long time, the younger years may not be aware of it, but the sense of that provision can also be understood to ensure that they are better informed, but it is necessary to carefully assess the consequences of such a step, which is well-meaning, but may raise some concerns in citizens. Citizens of this country have a wide range of responsibilities since certain moments, but no one sends them specially because of this in most cases. It is certainly for discussion whether it is appropriate to do so in this case, moreover, when it has not been done so far. The amendment also introduces significant changes in the processing of personal data in defence of the Czech Republic. That is, of course, another intervention in law enforcement. In the Act on Armed Forces, in the Act on the Protection of Defence of the Czech Republic, and in particular in the Defence Act, which affects ordinary citizens, new use is made of not little personal data of interest persons from other existing sources - processing under the control of the public authority. Yes, this can also be understood in the spirit of digitization and data sharing from public administration information systems. On the other hand, however, this will be done without significant control by the data management bodies or control authorities concerned. And as the last example of a relatively significant change, we can point out the Institute of Pre-Determination for Supplementing the Armed Forces, even if it is a voluntary institute outside the state of threat or outside the state of war, an extraordinary government measure whereby, however, voluntary military training can be carried out. It represents a significant intervention in citizens' rights, which must also be discussed. I do not want to go further into the various proposed changes here; this is not part of this debate either, nor do I want to reject the initial amendment. Overall, on the contrary, I think that we should definitely address this amendment and let it go into the next reading. The point of all that I have now pointed out and why I am saying this is merely to say that the amendment also brings significant and potentially sensitive changes that need to be discussed carefully. Madam President of our club justified the veto according to Section 90, so I will skip these paragraphs. Finally, as I have already said, I agree that we should look carefully at the draft law. In general, I support it, but in a proper legislative process, and not in a brief discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u25	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr. Zlínský. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u26	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on this subject as well. I am not an expert on this issue, but I am interested in this issue. I have read with interest the explanatory report on these laws or amendments to these laws, several times, and I will try to analyse the explanatory report, but I say frankly that it will be from the point of view of an amateur who is interested in this issue. [[11.40 hours]] The explanatory memorandum states that the current solution to the issue of defence laws is unsatisfactory due to the changed security situation in our immediate vicinity. Of course, the situation in Ukraine is meant here, or the issue of uncontrollable migration is mentioned here. And then I'm going to quote from the explanatory note-- I'm going to point out here that there's going to be a few quotes from the explanatory note-- maybe you all haven't read it, so you can understand my comments. "The basic objective of the bill as a whole is to enable preparatory work to be started and the state's level of readiness to defend itself at a time outside the state or outside the state of war." So I have no comment on that, which is probably the right decision that we should prepare ourselves for a critical situation. And now I get to two points that I'm extremely interested in. I will not criticize all the things that are there in the draft amendments to those laws, but rather only two things, and this concerns the format of digitization of data on citizens with a conscription obligation and the initiation of appropriate measures of registration, and then, of course, I will deal with the pre-determination for the addition of armed forces even outside the voluntary performance of military active service. Again, I will quote from the explanatory memorandum that "the ministry and the regional military headquarters are entitled to use data from information systems of public administration, registers and records and personal data kept with the relevant ministries, other administrative offices and local authorities, the organisational components of the state and legal and natural persons who will be obliged to transmit this information to the military authorities." You feel that it's such a big, all-round information, it's very hard to get a detailed overview of what information it might be. It is then mentioned that, among other things, it will be data, which is more interesting, "the state of health, education, formal qualifications and special skills of data subjects." And now for my comments. I have no doubt that the above-mentioned selectiveity in the conscription will be directed under these conditions to divert the highest-quality and most needed people from the point of view of their applicability to military needs, and will be provided by powerful artificial intelligence systems if they manage to collect sufficiently high-quality data on their health, physical, psychological and professional profile. This gives the Ministry of Defence basically unlimited insight into all information about citizens both in the information systems of the state administration and in employers, banks, insurance companies and other organizations. According to the reports and information I have, this is not allowed to the police or intelligence services, at least not yet. Only the National Security Authority has similar competence, and only when it carries out a specific person's clearance to a higher level of secrecy. It should be considered whether, in addition to the above-mentioned intention, we create the most powerful information power in the near future, with which power goes hand in hand in hand in our society, which will know the personality profiles and characteristics of all citizens of our republic at the age of 18 to 60. "Citizens who have a duty of defence could ask for a pre-determination to supplement the armed forces and, accordingly, a follow-up obligation to perform exercises on the basis of extraordinary government measures outside the state of threat or state of war on the basis of risks to the state." It is quite a complex definition and the question then is what is the definition of these risks and whether the government will be responsible for them by its ad hoc publication, at its sole discretion. "The government's special measures are expected to be taken in a deteriorating security situation which does not exceed the intensity of the threat to the state or the state of war, but it is necessary to increase the intensity of the state and its citizens' preparations for these states." Again, I ask: How many potential recruiters and backup workers will ask for this pre-determination, especially from the perspective of the annual termination of the conscription obligation for tens of thousands of backup workers who have had some form of military training in the past, by reaching 60 years of their age? "If a sufficient number of citizens do not voluntarily take over their duties" - I ask, what is the quantity? - "it will not be possible to create an advance and increase the required number of ready soldiers in reserve to complement the armed forces of the Czech Republic in a state of threat to the state or state of war." This is a quote from the explanatory report, and then I ask how the current government coalition will address this situation and in what time horizon. So will there be a military mandatory service that he is refusing so far? I also wonder on the basis of which information the government considered that the Institute of Pre-Determination would meet the current needs of the Army of the Czech Republic. The main problem further seems to me that our soldiers, including the predestined, will be able to be deployed anywhere outside the territory of the Czech Republic - § 2 para. 13 reads: "Operational deployment means the use of armed forces in other serious situations threatening the security of the Czech Republic outside its territory." The problem is the vagueness of this definition of the conditions of operational deployment of our soldiers. This may discourage many potential candidates who would be willing to defend their home and their families within the territorial protection of their territory if this were implemented. I see danger in missing this possibility and raising the issue of a possible mandatory active service if the current proposed system fails, and I do not see why it should succeed. Nor can I imagine if there is a general mobilisation that should respond to the announcement of a state or state of war threat, in which material and organizational security would not only be ensured by the removal, but also by the fitting-out, armament, accommodation and training of our troops in the order of months, not just days and weeks. Let's remember the impact of the rocket on Polish territory. In military records there are about 800,000 soldiers in reserve, with about 86 percent of them older than forty years, including me. Soldiers in active reserve is 3 737 according to data available to me, professional soldiers are, according to available data, about 30,000 people and only a few thousand fighters. It follows that most of the population that would be subject to conscription and under 45 years of age, for which the military has a preferential interest, is completely untrained and is not used to activities associated with the life of a soldier in military training, did not say in combat deployment. Some long-forgotten military skills and experiences, which may quickly recover in a stressful situation, have only male years older than about 40 years of age. In the event of a major crisis situation, which is unfortunately not excluded, the state of war with combat, then it cannot be ruled out that the selective compulsory contributions referred to by General Řehka may be targeted at this group of backers over the age of 40, and the selection rate will include, in particular, their civilian or military expertise and health status. [[11.50 hours]] Younger untrained years will then be subject to accelerated but longer-term military training than backers with military experience to supplement any loss of professional soldiers, active backups or older backups. Different selection rates will probably be set here, because many young people involved in this obligation will not be suitable for training on the basis of their physical and psychological assumptions, motivation and ability to endure long-term hardships with life-threatening risks, not to mention. If I am wrong in my thinking, which is possible, then I will be happy to hear the counterconception that will lead me to a mistake, as I pointed out at the outset, the considerations of an ordinary citizen who is concerned about the possible outcome of the current asparagus of arms and of the proposed legal solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u27	Thank you, and another one for the debate is Rozvoral. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, in my speech I would like to comment on today's government bill amending certain laws in the field of defence. The petitioner also submits that the House should agree with him at first reading, according to § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which, fortunately, we have delivered. At the outset of my speech, I must mention that the SPD is fundamentally refusing to adopt this amendment of the law, as we see in it a government tool to prepare and then drag the Czech Republic and its citizens into war, specifically in the conflict of war in Ukraine. We fundamentally reject war, and rather we should strive for peace as far as possible by all means available. This amendment contains six parts where in the last and sixth parts the effectiveness is defined, when this law is to take effect on the 30th day following the date of its publication. But let's go from the beginning. The first part amends the Act on the establishment of the Ministry and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, establishing the position of advisor, which is the Secretary of the Security Council of the State. National Security Advisor, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, shall be appointed and withdrawn by the Government. National Security Advisor is involved in coordinating the activities of state authorities in the area of security and defence of the Czech Republic and represents the Czech Republic in negotiations with foreign states and international organisations in matters related to security and defence of the Czech Republic, including obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations or institutions. So it's not the Chamber of Deputies that's gonna decide anymore, it's some counselor? The second part regulates the Act on Armed Forces of the Czech Republic, specifically regulates military transport and training of soldiers and defines the concept of military aircraft. Part Three complements the Act on the Protection of Defence of the Czech Republic, where the Ministry of Defence uses to carry out tasks pursuant to para. 1 data from information systems of public administration, registers and records and personal data listed in the relevant ministries, other administrative offices and local authorities, organisational units of the State and legal and natural persons under other legislation. To these military records, I would like to inform myself how the protection of personal data collected will be ensured, specifically what confidentiality regime will be subject to, or whether they will be accessible to all authorised personnel. The fourth part mentions amendments to the defence law, when, for example, new paragraphs are inserted, see Section 2, paragraph 2 is added. 3, which reads: "The Regional Military Headquarters shall communicate to the citizen who is subject to the conscription, detailed information on the content of the conscription and the possibility and method of voluntary takeover of its performance.' In addition, there is a determination for the addition of the armed forces for both the citizen and the soldier in reserve. Paragraph 12 is amended as follows: 3 and 4 shall read: "A soldier in active reserve shall perform regular military exercises of a total duration of up to 12 weeks in a calendar year, taking into account his planned classification, level of training and professional readiness. A soldier in active reserve performs military training to prepare for operational deployment for a total length of 12 weeks." In Section 31, for example, paragraph 3 is added. 8, which states: "The Ministry and the Regional Military Headquarters are entitled to use information from information systems of public administration, registers and records and personal data kept with relevant ministries, other administrative offices and local authorities, organisational units of the State and legal and natural persons under other legislation. The Ministry or regional military headquarters may require the provision of personal data which cannot be accessed in accordance with the first sentence of the relevant ministries, other administrative offices of the local authorities, organisational units of the State and legal and natural persons. The Ministry, other administrative offices, local authorities, national organisational units and legal and natural persons shall comply with these requirements.' Consequently, Section 31a states what data and information are used by the citizen who has an obligation to use the gate. Here I will just remind you of what I have already mentioned, and how it will be ensured to protect the misuse of some sensitive data about citizens. Part Five regulates amendments to the Reserve Service Act. For example, in Section 3 Personal data, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 states: "In the case of reserve soldiers, data are required within the scope of the data provided by the defence law and the data provided by that law.' In the following paragraphs, specific cases are dealt with in connection with financial transactions such as recruitment and stabilisation contributions, remuneration amounts and maturity of cash requirements. The last, sixth part, as I mentioned in the introduction, deals with the entry into force, i.e. 30 days after the date of publication. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD is refusing to support this proposed government amendment to the law, which changes some laws in the field of defence. The proposed changes are absolutely essential because they make it very easier to prepare and then introduce the Czech Republic into war. Moreover, the bill wants to discuss the ruling coalition in a short hearing. We must certainly have established legislation on defence, but it must be properly discussed in the House by standard procedure, so that everyone has sufficient time to comment on these very important matters in terms of ensuring the security of the Czech Republic and to submit amendments on which the public debate will take place. In this process of government, the rapid negotiation of an amendment to the law amending the law on defence, they see as well as MEPs from the SPD's parliamentary club a clear effort to prepare and subsequently drag the Czech Republic and its citizens into the conflict of war in Ukraine. So please, let us not make quick and hasty solutions and let us always remember that the active participation of our citizens in the war conflict is the worst solution. We have a responsibility for our citizens, so let us look together for solutions that will help calm the current situation and lead to peace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u29	Thank you, and your speech has raised Mr Flek's point of fact. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u30	Thank you. Thank you for the fruitful debate. I would just like to make sure that you stop using that we want to bring the Czech Republic to war. It's not true. And the legislation that is being prepared is being prepared by the fact that there is a war in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u31	Thank you for keeping time. With another point of fact, Mr Horák is registered. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u32	Thank you. Beautiful day. So I have to ask the previous speaker - and it has already been said several times: how can you keep saying that the government is trying to bring the Czech Republic to war? I'm really asking you, how can you afford this? You're really scaring a lot of the population, and you're also saying that you're reacting to those scared people. And here you repeat in the House, in the House of Parliament of the Czech Republic you say that the government is trying to bring people to war, to drag the Czech Republic into a war conflict in Ukraine. That's really... If you read the definition of demagogy, like on Wikipedia, it's in such an incredible way that I'm really, really upset about how you guys can leak stuff like that! [[In an elevated voice.]] [[12.00 hours]] And then we're not surprised, of course, that people who watch it on social media are really scared. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are very grossly contributing to the division of Czech society, and we will all be reaping these fruits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u33	Thank you for your time, and with priority rights, the President of the Fiala is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u34	Thank you. I have to respond to this performance by my colleague. No wonder people are scared. When you come up with a novel that allows for some sort of selective mobilisation when you come up with a novel that allows you to shorten the call order from 30 days to 3 days, when you come up with a novel that you're doing some kind of counseling at the Office of the Government, and then read in the headlines on ČT24 that the VOP in the Czech Republic will repair Ukrainian technology, military technology, so how far are we from the war? How would you define how far we are from the war? How far are we from the war? We're bringing in the money, changing the defensive legislation so we can be there in three days. So what are these people supposed to think? And you still want to approve it in Section 90! Then let's discuss it. Let's discuss this and we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u35	I wish you a nice noon, we took turns managing the meeting. Let's keep going. We have two factual, three factual points, four, that's how it gets started. The first, with a factual point, shall be made by Mr Vích. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, by your means, to Mr Horák. You know, if the Chief of Staff states in the mass media that it is necessary to prepare for selective mobilisation, these are the very things that disturb our society, so I have to make a clear statement against the fact that we would be the ones who are lifting up some banner here that we are going into a war conflict. After all, we want peace, but we need to ease the individual outputs, and those people are just taking over, times are sensitive. And I have to say no to this meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u37	The next one, with a factual remark, will be delivered by Mr Rozvoral, and Mrs Peštová will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to retreat and respond to Mr Horák's words through you. The fact that we are at war, Mr Horák, is what your Prime Minister, and Minister Černochová, and Minister Lipavský said. So look at the tapes and the fact that we're at war says your ministers and the Prime Minister of this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u39	Mrs Peštová, with another factual point. Mrs Balaštíková will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to calm the left and right part of the spectrum, because I have here a letter sent to the Office of the Government, of course under Act 106 on the provision of free information, where one of the questions is to Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who repeatedly claims that we are at war, yes, and the question was to whom the war is waged - according to the hundred and six. And the Office of the Government answers: "To your request we would like to state that the above statement by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic must be understood as one of the metaphorical observations. So it's a metaphor, let's not argue here, there's no war, even if part of it talks about war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u41	děkovat you and Mrs Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u42	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'm 20. 3. she spoke in this House, it was at a point - the first extension of the emergency situation you asked us to do, and I first distanced myself from the statement made by the President of the House, Mrs Markéta Pekarová, who, as the first politician, said that we were at war, and then I stepped out, and in my speech I distanced myself from her statement, and I told everyone that old citizens were afraid. So please, colleagues, be court-martialed and let's see where it started. I do not agree with what is going on here, but indeed the first statements were made by Mrs Pekarová, the Prime Minister, right after her, and I was in this speech, which was at the beginning of 2022, distanced myself from not speaking for the entire House and kindly separated my opinion from that of the entire Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u43	That was the last point in fact, we are going back to the general debate and I will ask Mr Černý for a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u44	Thank you for the floor, hello. Mr President, honourable Members, Madam Secretary and absent Government, let me also comment on the Government's proposal for a law which amends several laws in the field of transport. Although I am not an expert in this area, I will express my civic opinion here. I would also like to pause here over the newly established position of National Security Advisor. According to the Government's proposal, this advisor should also be Secretary of the Security Council of the State. The description of this new position states: "The National Security Advisor is involved in coordinating the activities of state authorities in the area of security and defence of the Czech Republic and represents the Czech Republic in negotiations by foreign states and international organisations in matters relating to security and defence of the Czech Republic, including obligations arising from membership of the Czech Republic in international organizations or institutions." So many quotes. This is therefore a key position in the field of defence with a very broad scope. I have two comments to make. Firstly, the proposal contains the wording that the new advisor is appointed and withdrawn by the government. I believe that such a strong position should not only be appointed and called off by the government. It should be possible to choose a name after a wider agreement, i.e. here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Secondly, there is absolutely no mention of security clearance in the description of this position. Even in other sources, I haven't found any information that a person holding a National Security Advisor should have any degree of security clearance. Furthermore, during the campaign before the presidential election, it was unbelievable what an outrage in the ruling five-police and related journalists caused our candidate, Mr. Jaroslav Bašta, to declare that he would not allow war when he declared, among other things, that he refused to support the war by sending weapons. Any mention during the entire presidential campaign regarding the end of the war, the appeal of the government, the promotion of peace, the danger of mobilization, and so on was referred to as misinformation and war scaring. Well, it hasn't been two weeks since the second round of the presidential election, and we have a proposal here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, a government proposal that the government is trying to facilitate and speed up mobilisation. That's what happens. Then who's haunted? Was it the SPD movement and our presidential candidate? Or is the government now putting forward this proposal to amend several laws in the field of defence and thereby speeding up the so-called selective mobilisation of our citizens? Moreover, this government proposal is presented in such a way as to approve it at first reading, i.e. without proper discussion here in the Chamber, without a broad parliamentary debate in the committees, which I really cannot agree with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u45	Thank you. No one is reporting to the general debate at this time. I'll check the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in from the scene? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate on this point. I'll ask for the final words. Is she interested in the secretary's final word? Yes. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try to take it one step at a time. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that this debate is going on quite constructively here, and I will certainly try to answer some colleagues' questions now in my speech. [[12.10 hours]] Perhaps completely before the parentheses and before the names of the debaters, I would say that this is not some new standard that would, in fact, be presented to colleagues, especially from the Defence Committee, only now. We discussed our intentions with our colleagues in the Defence Committee, and invited them repeatedly to meetings where we presented to them what should be the content of these legislative changes, so that is why we also dared to make the 90th draft. I totally respect your need for debate here, so I'm sure I'm ready, both in the committees and here in the House plenary, about the points you're interested in, to have a debate. Anyway, I just wanted to say that I'm sure the defense committee colleagues will give me the truth that they've been informed about what's in the presentation and what it's going to be about. Now, please allow me to say a little bit of comment about the individual performances here. I'm sure I agree with the chairman of the SPD Fiala Club that a wider debate is needed. We will, we'll lead her on the committees. I certainly want to strongly oppose what almost all SPD colleagues have actually said, that these standards somehow involve the Czech Republic in a war conflict. It is not so and the only one who wanted to involve the Czech Republic in the war conflict was Mr Kobza, who wanted to send Czech soldiers to Ukraine. Remember that here, it was said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies when discussing the mandate of our soldiers abroad. So, please check my words on the log, it was a member of the SPD Kobza who wanted to send Czech soldiers to Ukraine. On what has been said here at the address of the National Security Advisor, I would like to say that Tomáš Pojar, President of the Fiala, through the Vice-President, is not a member of the ODS, first of all. Unlike you, who you have been a member of the ODS for years, so I'm sure you know that information can be verified, and I would ask that we not say something that isn't true here. Of course, if Mr. Tomáš Pojar didn't have a proper background check, and that's what you said here, mostly SPD colleagues, he wouldn't be able to get to know classified facts by law. After all, the Act on some regime and the handling of classified materials is valid, which doesn't change at all. There is all the information to what extent, who can get acquainted with what, so it is quite logical that a national security advisor has to have a background check, otherwise no document could read. [[Minister Blažek is having a disturbing conversation with the Members in the front desk.]] Pavel! [[Part of the House laughs and claps.]] To what was said here at the address of our government and Mr Vích - thank you for the helpful proposal. I'm sure I'll read and familiarize myself with what he passed on to me for documents. I know that, too, during the last parliamentary term, Mr Vích has repeatedly discussed the defence committee where we sat together, so I will certainly take part in this debate and read the record from the seminar I received from him. Here I would just point out that the President of the SPD Fiala Club and Mr Vích differ a little in his opinion, because a colleague of Vích mentioned here that it is a pity in his view that the military service has been abolished and that no alternative has actually been prepared, and vice versa, the President of the SPD Fiala Club criticised the contributions and any involvement of civilians in the military. On what Mr Ratiborský said here, I would just mention that the constitutional law or any changes to the constitution are not the subject of this discussion, as we have discussed here and we will certainly be discussing in future readings. The Constitution concerns the rescue of hostages, and it is not the subject of today's press. The Member also referred to the amendment of 2222 concerning the confederation associations. Here also several times my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence met with signatories to these changes and discuss some of the possibilities that our department has, and we agreed that some of the things that are mentioned there are not prepared well and can be dealt with better. Here I can also mention the preparation of citizens to defend a state that could also be included in a system. To what was said here by a fellow Member of the Ryba. Here I would like to mention that this is a matter that concerns not only the Integrated Rescue System, but it is about coordinating intelligence services and the entire system. It makes sense to set up counsellors under the law because there will be clear competences and powers within the Office of the Government, and that strengthening the role in the law is such that this person, of course, has the necessary weight. Here I would perhaps just remind you that this really is nothing special, and there are a number of countries around us that have this institute, even the Russian Federation, that some colleagues might like that, because the Russian Federation has the Secretary-General of the Security Council, appointed by the President. Here I might even mention that ANO colleagues have a close formulation of me in their electoral programme, and I actually implement their electoral programme with this proposal. Let me quote this, it is your 2018 election programme: "We will require independent control of all intelligence services and ensure their better coordination at government level so that the results of their work are added up. We will strengthen cooperation between security structures at European level." That's exactly what the bill is, so thank you, and it's nice that besides five-calice colleagues, the ANO movement's representatives actually have that coordinator in your electoral program. Indeed, the effort here to have a national security advisor elected by Parliament is unfortunate, and it is unfortunate because intelligence is a matter of executive logic and the heads of intelligence are also appointed by the government after discussion in the relevant committees. So, of course, there's the analogy with the National Security Advisor. Regarding what Mr Koten said here that six regional military headquarters in the regions are missing in the Czech Republic, six regions are missing regional military headquarters. Mr Koten, through the Vice-President, he is not missing. There's a regional military headquarters in every county, and I don't know where you got this information. [[12.20 hours]] What Mr Bělica said here, to intervene in the rights of citizens, and to report. Here I just want to assure him that we don't have to do this absolutely for everyone, it's just an option that we can use and we don't have to use. It makes it possible to communicate directly with citizens, and I think that there will be a question of some negotiation, whether we mean it in such a way that, as you said here too, the generation for which the information was not really known to get it, or not at all in this sense will be applied. As far as I'm concerned... I hope I haven't forgotten anyone. I have Mr. Zlínský here. Here I would like to say that, my colleague, through the Vice-President, the mobilisation plans are subject to the strictest secrecy, and it is therefore quite difficult to comment on you here in some way and to respond to you. Just the members of the Defence Committee have had the opportunity to get acquainted with some of the plans at the secret regime workplace, and I think they have a clear idea of what is in these plans, but it really is not possible to discuss this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. When you talked about the format of digitization and the information that will be provided somewhere, I want all colleagues here because there were more of you who mentioned it, so I would like to assure everyone that this amendment was very closely discussed with the Office for Personal Data Protection and with the Ministry of the Interior and is comfortable for them, so there is no contradiction with the Office for Personal Data Protection or with the Ministry of the Interior. Of course, citizens will be informed that someone has volunteered to find out their personal data and to use this information. This is happening now quite commonly with other authorities, it will also be possible to apply this in this case. Mr Zlínský also spoke of the Institute of Pre-Determination. Here I would like to say that the House can abolish the extraordinary measures of the government, Mr colleague, through the Vice-President, within 30 days of the date of his publication in the Collection of Laws, and before the expiry of this period, you cannot call a reserve soldier to perform military exercises, so you have no concern that anyone would be forced to do anything. The debate led by Rozvoral from the SPD was discussed again by the National Security Advisor, which I have already answered. Involvement in the war in Ukraine. No one is dragging the Czech Republic or its citizens into the war in Ukraine, or vice versa. We, as the Czech Republic, are trying to do everything we can to make sure that we have some options if we really, on the other side, in the east of us, are moving some things towards our country, so that we are able to respond. You wouldn't want the Czech Republic to be in a position similar to that of Czechoslovakia, when it wasn't even possible to have some information that might have helped and returned the decision then, I'm talking about the decision, whether it was caused by the Munich dictatorship or then the follow-up. So here I very strongly reject the fact that we would drag the Czech Republic and its citizens into the war in Ukraine by changing legislation, by changing legislation comprehensively. Colleague Rozvoral also had a specific question concerning the shortening of the call order for three days. He mentioned here that it was a big change. So I would like to assure my colleague, Mr Rozvoral, that this applies only to active backup in crisis situations and to a reserve soldier, not to an active backup. This applies only if he agrees and only in the territory of the Czech Republic. I hope... just give me one more minute that I have answered all the questions that have been raised here. Maybe even to that voluntary pre-determination, what's the use of voluntary pre-determination? We want to offer the opportunity to contribute to the country's defence and to those people who, for work, study, family reasons, cannot enter an active backup or become professional soldiers. These people de facto declare by voluntary pre-determination that in the event of a crisis, they will stand by their consent, because they have given the consent, they can call for it. And we also want to use this voluntary predestination to improve our contact with certain professions that are in short supply in the military, of course I will mention IT specialists and techniques in general, but it is also a number of other expertise that the military is interested in. You have repeatedly mentioned in this context some Associations that have shielded various hobbists, whether they simply cynologists, paratroopers, pilots, that's actually similar. Here, in the case of these professions, we will have information about the fact that these people, for example, can drive a truck, those who voluntarily sign up for this pre-determination, because we are dealing with a shortage of, for example, these drivers throughout our society. So it's really going to be important information that the state is actually going to be able to get, and I think it's okay that the state should have that information. If, for example, you didn't mention it, but the question might fall somewhere, if we're even interested in legal arms holders - of course. With them, there is an advantage and a great advantage that the state already has information about these people, because the State is issuing weapons licenses through the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Authority. But, of course, we will be happy if these people are willing to be predicted and thus show their will to help their country if necessary. We do not want to force anyone to do things that, thank God, are not even on the agenda of the day yet, because, as I said, the Czech Republic wants to create conditions for us to be a safe country, a country that is able to respond to things that are happening not far from us, very quickly, and happiness wishes ready. There were still some questions about the technical changes, about the trains, I think that was mentioned by Mr. Fiala. Here I would just like to put his words to the right, because the train carrying military equipment can be met now, it is nothing new, but the new legislation only introduces the concept of an extraordinary military train that would take precedence on the railway if necessary, and this is how it was discussed with the Ministry of Transport. So once again, colleagues, thank you so much for the constructive debate. I look forward to continuing it. I am, of course, ready to discuss this standard further with you, and thank you once again for your comments and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u47	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will ask the rapporteur if he is also interested in the final word. [[I don't.]] He's not interested. I see the factual comments that have been made here, but we are already outside the general debate, so I cannot accommodate you in this case. The Minister of Finance is reporting, thereby opening the debate back up. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u48	Thanks for the word. If I may consider this debate to be open, let me read the procedural proposal, that is to say, according to § 90 para. 2 reduced the time of committee discussions between first and second reading by 30 days to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u49	Yes, I do. We are back in the general debate, so factual remarks can now be made. First report is made by Mr Bělica. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u50	Thank you for the floor. I'd only like to respond to the part about me, the secretary. I don't know exactly what kind of information the secretary has, but certainly not entirely correct. I met with the D.O.D. reps. That was certainly not a nice meeting that we could agree on, on the contrary, those people behaved very arrogantly and very unbearablely, so there was no agreement in this regard with regard to the two-two-two. It may be a pity that we have to pass this information on here at the House. I would like it to change for the future, so that the communication is, let's say, easier and more direct, and I'm ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u51	Thank you. Mr Kobza, Mr Zlínský, will be prepared. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the Minister's comment at the beginning of her speech, which was probably a reaction to my speech when we were discussing the training of the Ukrainian army in our territory. I raised the rhetorical question of why we will train them in our country if we can practice them in Ukraine. It was at a time when information about Czech volunteers working on the Ukrainian side in the Ukrainian conflict was already being held in the media, with some of them being instructors there. That means I didn't call for any transmission of our army to Ukraine, on the contrary, I responded to the situation that is already there, because now that the instructors are there, they can practice right on the spot. Well, that's just to set the record straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u53	Thank you. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mr Zlínský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u54	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the Minister's words. I didn't say in my speech that I'd like to know the mobilization plans. I merely expressed some doubt as to whether, in the current situation, all aspects of the mobilisation could be realized, not just by devolvement. Then I asked you something else. I asked if the pre-determination institute was any way thoughtful. I had such an idea that I was asking how long it would take to evaluate itself and how it would be assessed that it was successful; if it didn't succeed, what would happen next. Maybe I didn't get that out of the way, so I'm getting it now. As for the information the military gets about the citizens, of course she needs the information, I understand. The question is, which information, how deep it must go. I would like to mention that, in any case, there will be some militarisation of society by these measures, that is undoubtedly, because the importance of the army and its powers will increase by how it will have the appropriate data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next one, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Koten, who has so far been last logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just like to set the record straight on what I said here about regional military headquarters. Of course, the regional military headquarters are there in the six regions, but unfortunately only the regional military headquarters, there are no other units. So that's how I'd like to explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-002-011.u57	Thank you, that was the last point of fact. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? He's not reporting. So I am once again ending the general debate. I will once again ask for interest in the final words, but I assume that neither the rapporteur nor the secretary are interested in speaking again. [[- No. Rapporteur: No.]] In the general debate, there was no proposal to return or reject the proposal, so we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion of the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone, so we'll proceed to the vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 75, 155 Members voted in favour of 148. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? It's not like that. We will therefore now vote on shortening the time limits. In the general debate, the proposal was that the time limits for discussion between first and second reading should be reduced by 30 days, to 30 days, by the Minister of Finance. Then we know what we're going to vote on. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Let him press the button and raise his hand - or who is there to shorten the time limits for discussion? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 155 Members have been voted in, 77 voted in. The motion was denied. [[Request from the right side of the hall for a vote check.]] Checking the votes, yes, I understand. We'll wait a few seconds for the vote to be checked. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] I ask if the vote will be called into question or not? It won't. [[A thunderous round of applause from members of the SPD and YES.]] We haven't cut the time limit here. This dealt with the first reading of the House's printing 368, if I'm not mistaken. [[12.40 hours]] Let's continue with point number
