ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u1	95. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the rámcový Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Government of Malaysia, on the other hand /German press 381 - first reading The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you the rámcový Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Government of Malaysia, on the other. The Government agreed to this agreement on 5 October 2022 and subsequently the agreement was signed in Brussels on 14 December 2022 at the edge of the EU-ASEAN Summit. Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, signed the agreement for the European Union due to the then ongoing Czech Presidency. At the same time yesterday, the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agreed to ratify the agreement as it is also presented here. I would like to say that this agreement is a comprehensive agreement between the European Union and Malaysia. Its main objective is to facilitate mutual political dialogue and cooperation in a wide range of areas, as well as to contribute to bilateral, bilateral cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and Malaysia, so that it has a positive relationship with our bilateral relations with Malaysia. In fact, after a long time, this is the first agreement that the European Union has with Malaysia in some way, the older ones go back to the 1980s, and the ASEAN. The agreement is really wide, covering human rights, the fight against terrorism, international justice and tribunals, weapons of mass destruction or conventional weapons. It also covers cooperation in health, the environment, energy, education, science, transport and many other areas, such as information society, cyber security, anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. So it is certainly good news for the Czech Republic that there is such a contractual framework to conduct a dialogue on all these issues between the European Union and Malaysia, but it will also have a positive impact on Czech-Malay relations. I don't want to go into detail here, so I'm not going to describe our whole bilateral session, so we can do that in the foreign committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u3	I, too, thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jarmila Levko. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. The document presented, House Press 381, as has already been said here, is a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Government of Malaysia on the other. In fact, the text of the agreement was already established in 2016, when representatives of the European Commission and Malaysia were initialled, but then the Member States of the European Union insisted that the Treaty be changed to a so-called mixed treaty, which means that on our side it would not only be the European Union but also all the Member States. That is what has happened, and that is why they must now give their consent to the ratification of the parliaments of each Member State, including ours. As has already been said by the Minister, our Prime Minister Petr Fiala signed a new mixed agreement for the European Union on 14 December 2022, because it was during the Czech Presidency, as well as Josep Borrell, the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Now just very briefly to the content. The Treaty replaces the 1980 Agreement between the European Economic Community and the ASEAN States and is very, very comprehensive. It addresses cooperation not only in trade but also in the field of human rights, in the fight against terrorism, international justice and tribunals, weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. It also covers cooperation in health, environmental, energy, environmental technologies, education and science, transport and cyber security matters. The agreement also concerns measures against money laundering and terrorist financing, action against organised crime and corruption. It also contains provisions on cooperation in the field of taxation, civil society, public administration and disaster management. However, I think that the most important principle is right at the beginning of the article. 1 Title 1, which states that the basis of cooperation is respect for democratic principles and human rights, as well as the commitment to promote sustainable development. I would just like to mention, therefore, that bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and Malaysia are friendly, trouble-free, and this agreement can help to strengthen mutual cooperation. I propose that we discuss the Foreign Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u5	I also thank you and open a general debate where I record one application, Mr Jiří Strýček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I would just like to express in essence the position of the club of the ANO movement, which, of course, will support the release of this framework agreement to second reading and subsequent approval. I'm just saying a few words from a point of view or beyond as far as economic diplomacy with Malaysia is concerned. Of course, Malaysia is an economically very interesting country with which we have smooth and very friendly bilateral contacts. It is one of the leading trading partners of the Czech Republic and, for example, in terms of the mutual turnover of CZK 54 billion in 2021, it represents the second largest export market in Southeast Asia and our largest trading partner in the ASEAN countries. In 2020, Malaysia's economy with a fall in GDP of 5.6 percent ceased to exist in the covid-19 pandemic and subsequently returned to growth trajectory in 2021 when the growth of the economy just exceeded 3%. The other outlook is relatively optimistic and, depending on the resources, it is around 5% per year. The inflation rate has remained low in 2018 in recent years and has even fallen to 1% in 2020. Consumer prices even decreased, although this figure was influenced by negative manifestations of the coronavirus pandemic. There is also relatively low unemployment and inflation, which is one of the very strengths of the Malaysian economy. The potential risk here is only instability and insufficient rapid implementation of the necessary reforms and volatility of gas and oil prices on world markets. The public debt ratio has an increasing trend and the balance of the trade balance is in surplus over the long term. According to the Malaysian government's long-term plan, the country should become a high-income economy by 2025 and be among the twenty richest countries in the world by 2050. I only wanted this beyond this Treaty, so that we could see that this framework agreement would be very advantageous for the economy of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-004-095.u7	I, too, thank you, Mr Ambassador, am I asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I do not see another application, in which case I end the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word? Mr. Secretary, do you want the final word? Okay. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. I shall therefore vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 115, 135 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 113, against no one. I note that the government's proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I'm done discussing this press. [[11.20 hours]] Furthermore, from 11.15 p.m. Mr. Jiří Navrátil cancels his apology and from 11 p.m. to 13 p.m. Minister Ivan Bartoš apologizes for reasons of work. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, which is
