ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u1	88. Government proposal by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its agreement to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013 (the House Press 65/ - first reading) The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, whom I ask to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are already discussing this material in the third parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u3	I will also interrupt you, Minister, and I will ask my colleagues to keep quiet, or to transfer their other duties to the foyer, so that we can have the proper peace of mind to discuss this international treaty. Thank you very much. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u4	This contract was signed in November 2013. As I said before, it is the third term in which we are trying to discuss and approve this material. This was in 2014, 2018, when this material was submitted by the governments of the time. It always went through the first reading and never went through the second reading. At the same time, our Parliament's Upper House approved this in both parliamentary periods. In April 2014, the Senate for the first time, the number of resolution 457, and the Senate for the second time approved it in April 2018. Information: At this time, the Czech Republic has concluded 95 double taxation agreements with 96 states in total. So far, we have a joint treaty to avoid double taxation with Serbia and Montenegro. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Kosovo has concluded and in force, at this time, international agreements on double taxation with many states. It is randomly Albania, Austria, Croatia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Macedonia, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Slovenia or Great Britain. The most recent contracts are those that apply from 1 January 2022, and these are contracts with Lithuania, Latvia and the Netherlands and from 1 January 2023 with Ireland. The Treaty has an economic dimension. This is a comprehensive tax contract negotiated on the basis of OECD and UN model documents, which is standard based on the tax laws of both states, and does not replace national tax rules, does not impose any other obligations on tax entities than those already contained in those national rules. The Treaty provides for the taxation and exclusion of international double taxation of all possible types of income and contributes to the objective distribution of the right to tax on each type of income between the two States, i.e. between the State of the source of income and the State of its beneficiary. The Treaty provides for the basic forms of cooperation between the competent authorities of both Contracting Parties. It allows the settlement of disputes arising from the implementation and interpretation of the contract, the exchange of information and the coordination of the tax authorities of both States in order to limit possible tax evasion and fraud, in accordance with international standards for the exchange of information. At the same time, this treaty ensures tax non-discrimination of Czech entities in Kosovo and increases legal certainty of investors and other tax entities. I would like to inform you that during the period January to November 2022, Czech exports have reached a record value of less than EUR 37 million, which is 2.5 million better than in 2021. I recommend that the Chamber of Deputies move this press into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u5	Thank you, Minister, and I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, to take the floor. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u6	Good afternoon, colleagues, as has already been said here, I will repeat this once again, on 26 November 2013, the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo, which we recognise, was signed on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes. The Government of the Czech Republic agreed to negotiate the contract by Resolution 937 of 14 December 2011. Double taxation is undesirable, as it reduces the income that tax entities, i.e. residents of one state, derive from the state of the other, whether entrepreneurs or employees. Since the result of international double taxation of income is a conflict of tax laws of two different states, this taxation can be effectively ruled out only by measures taken by both states which are mutually coordinated by an international treaty. The Treaty was established on the basis of OECD and UN models and has a purely economic character. The Treaty has already been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, but it never made it to second reading. The Senate agreed for the first time in April 2014. I hope we can fix this. There is no real reason to postpone ratification of this Treaty. After Parliament's approval, the Treaty shall be ratified by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u7	Thank you, Madame, for your news report, and at this point I am opening up a general debate to which Mr Foldyna is currently reporting. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, I stand here to argue that we will sign a treaty with a kind of Kosov, a state that arose on the basis of a violation of international law. We have not ratified this treaty for three parliamentary periods. Let us ask ourselves the question - why? Why are we... and what happened? Did it have any consequences or consequences? What's it like, the state of Kosovo? Let me put a little bit of history into it. Kosovo is Serbia. It's called Kosovo and Metochie. It is part of Serbia, the old Serbia, where the capital of Serbia also resided. Kosovo was established, the Kosovo you are talking about here, the so-called State of Kosovo, was established in 2008. What preceded it? Look, we're always talking about Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk as the founder of the state. I'm gonna give you a little heads-up, and I hate to do this, and I'm not the kind of person to lecture anyone. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, when he was building the Czechoslovak Republic, traveled around the world with a Serbian passport in his pocket, to the United States, to France, to Russia, to build Czechoslovakia. When Western allies sold Czechoslovakia in 1938, in Belgrade thousands of Srb stood in front of the embassy and volunteered to fight for Czechoslovakia, for our independence, against the violation of treaties when Western democracy sold us, both in slaughterhouses. In 1928, Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk wrote a book on Slavic Problems and characterized some of the issues relating to the relationship between Srb and Kosovo. [[He's showing his clothes.]] Yes, I have a T-shirt here - Kosovo is the heart of a Serb. The Srb came to the Balkans just now to Kosovo. Their monasteries Gračany, Visoki Dečani, Pećský patriotí are from the 14th century. Will you also sell North Bohemia as the Western powers sold us? Will you sell us out? Shall we return to the Munich Agreement? Will you also say that this is a legal act? This was a legal act too! And what preceded the legal act? What preceded it? Do you remember the surgery -- do you hear the disgusting words -- the surgery? It wasn't a war, it was an operation. NATO, of which we had become a member a few days before, bombed Yugoslavia in 1999. Jamie Shea, NATO spokesperson, said: It is natural to bomb energy infrastructure. Hey! Today we're wondering what the Russian is doing in Ukraine. Yes, he's violating international law as much as you've violated it! [[In an elevated voice.]] Yes, you were silent. You were silent when the free state of Yugoslavia was bombed by the strongest military group in the world - 76 days. Imagine that things like cassette bombs have been used. I just read somewhere that the Rus are using it in Ukraine. On April 17th, a cluster bomb killed three-year-old Milici Rakić. It wasn't a soldier, it was a three-year-old girl who was killed by a cassette bomb in the bathroom. Attacks, natural attacks, as Jamie Shea said, were some NATO spokesperson when Javier Solana was NATO's boss, saying: It is natural that we are destroying the state's energy infrastructure. And they were throwing cluster bombs, I'm sorry, cassette... graphite bombs that short-circuited power plants throughout the wide Yugoslavia, shutting down hospitals. Imagine there were people in those hospitals in the O.R. Imagine that next to hospitals, the largest hospital in the Balkans, in Belgrade, the tomahawks fell. Imagine how they carried little babies into the basements to save them. This Serbia you want to admit... to steal their country from them. This Serbia, you want to steal the country. That's why it wasn't approved for the three term. Aren't you a little shy? I'm glad the People's Party didn't vote for it in the last term. Imagine what it looked like. Topolánek wanted to vote, so they met at the Office of the Government... boom, and it didn't work out. Jesus Christ, what was that? People were demonstrating outside. The Czech nation is not as primitive as you think. He sees it all. So they went to America, where they went to consult, Topolánek and Schwarzenberg flew to America. The boys came back from America and had an exit meeting in Teplice, meeting at E55. Do you know what this is, the E55? I won't remind you. We've been there in those years. It wasn't on the government's agenda either, and they agreed to recognise a certain Kosovo, a state that was created on the basis of military intervention, a state that was entitled to self-determination. Do you hear the words? A claim to self-determination. Ježíš, where do they say they want to be entitled to self-determination? It's not possible, there are international treaties. What claim to self-determination? A referendum? There was a referendum, yes, when NATO took over. And you know what UÇK was? A terrorist organization that was listed in the United States by 1998. Since 1998 it has been a liberation organization. Liberty! Terrorists have become a liberating organization and we have begun to support them. We weren't, we were just listening, inclined. I'm glad President Zeman apologized for the way he took it. I will not comment on the comments made by such people, but look, recognising Kosovo and doing business with it when the state has been unlawfully created is completely unacceptable. And I was sent here by the SPD to tell you. I've been discussing with you in the hallway, and of course you see it. Only now is party discipline. Double taxation. What double taxation? You know the most heroin is made here. That's not happening. The mafia that brings drugs to Western Europe is not subject to double taxation. And the few jobs we did in there, that's funny. Again, don't get your hands dirty with any Kosovo if it's not even a UN state, because the UN states didn't accept it, I suspect it was 115 states, 113 states that recognized Kosovo, and 15 states have already withdrawn it from 193. But we lean forward because Topolánek has returned from the United States, we will accept it. And now we're talking about double taxation. What double taxation with the state? Are you also borrowing a car from someone who stole it from you? You don't. So just don't play double taxation with any of the states that have been unlawfully created. Jarda Bašta - and I don't want to campaign here - said: You sow Kosovo and reap Ukraine. Wow, how apt that is! But you can't say that, you can't say that. I don't want to compare things here. I've always opposed any aggression, even that Ukrainian aggression. Ukraine has never recognised Kosovo. Imagine, Ukraine did not recognise Kosovo! Anyway, I don't accept referendums in Crimea or Donetsk. I don't. Someone can give it to me. So you do not accept referendums in Kosovo under NATO and UÇK, a terrorist organization. Before Christmas, a soldier shot two Serbian boys. No, he shot them, he shot them, he really shot them. They carried the Christmas tree home. A soldier of the Kosovo army shot two boys, a son of a kind warrior from UÇK. It's a very tense situation. And we, the Czech Republic, who has something to thank the Serbian nation, then Yugoslavia, are supposed to get our hands dirty. Please, I suggest for the SPD that we reject this treaty and not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u9	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, I see your proposal that we will vote on rejecting the point presented at first reading. We are in a general debate. In fact, a colleague Benešík is reporting. Ambassador, please, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it was the government of Miloš Zeman, for which Serbia was bombed, and I consider the excuses that fall here to be completely misguided. Mr. Jaroslav Bašta sat in that government, let's be aware of that, so it's just excuses and circumvention. KDU-ČSL opposed the recognition of Kosovo because we considered Kosovo an integral part of Serbia at the time. But it was the government of Miloš Zeman, at the time of its operation the Czech Republic joined NATO, and at this time we also allowed NATO intervention in Kosovo. Jaroslav Bašta sat in this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u11	That was the factual point of my colleague Benešík. Mr Foldyna is once again reporting to the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u12	I always respect my colleagues Benešík, but I'd like to ask him what he means now. What was that about? Is this part of the election, any debate on the election? I repeat here again, yes, it was the government of Miloš Zeman, it was the government of social democracy that brought this country to NATO, and in a few days NATO bombed Yugoslavia. The President of the Republic, then Prime Minister Zeman, apologized for that. He apologized for that. The fact that Bašta is running today and has an opinion about it is nothing. That means I'm asking my colleague Benešík, so what? Have you changed your mind? Is Kosovo okay? Have they told you it's okay? So come and tell me... Tell me you've changed your mind. I understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u13	Another point of fact is made by a colleague Benešík. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u14	Our view is exactly the same, unchanged, and of course we reflect the current reality that exists. Anyway, Mr. Presidential candidate Bašta and Mr. current President Zeman just had to change that opinion. I think it's time he wrote the second part of the book about how I was wrong about politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u15	Mr. Foldyna reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u16	Mr Benešík, please, please, through the President, so that I do not violate everything here, so will you vote against it? You don't recognize Kosovo? I give you a deep compliment for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u17	At this point, I am not seeing any factual comment, nor is anyone else reporting to the general debate. Mr Okamura Hayat's point of fact. Ambassador, please, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to give a little testimony. I visited Kosovo last autumn with an official delegation, with Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský, with colleague Petr Beitl, Marek Ženíšek, and I would like to remind you that Kosovo, the question of the Western Balkans, is not only a hundred years old, but also a future. It's a country that has a very young population. We have personally met a group of young people there who are eager to get closer to the European Union and NATO. It is a country that is at the limit of the influence of Kremlin Russia. We all know that the Kremlin influence, even now, is very strong in Serbia, and it is precisely our democratic Western civilization. So let's keep this in mind. Reality is very complex. The vast majority of the people of Kosovo are ethnic Albánec, we also know that. They're not Srb, they're people who use Albanian. And there is a strong desire to approach our Western democratic community, so I will vote in favour of this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-006-088.u19	Thank you. This has so far been the last to be registered with a factual remark and I also do not see anyone registered for the general debate. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's interest in the final words at this point? It's not. We will therefore vote on the proposals tabled. In the general debate, Mr Foldyna's proposal was made to reject this proposal at first reading. Yes, I'm registering the application for check-out. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log in with your ID cards again. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mr Bartošek apologises from 11 a.m. to 13 a.m. for working reasons, and Mr Vondrák Ivo apologises from 14.30 to 9 a.m. for working reasons. Since the number of Members in the Chamber has settled in the meantime, I will repeat what we will be voting on. We will vote on the proposal tabled in the general debate by Mr Foldyna, namely to reject this proposal at first reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 57, 137 Members have been voted in favour, 19, against 85. The motion was denied. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? If that is not the case, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the guarantee committee being a foreign committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 58, 144 Members voted in favour of 133, against 2. I note that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. Is there anyone who suggests another committee to discuss? It's not like that. That concludes item 88. The next point we're going to go on is point number.
