ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u1	21. Government bill on extraordinary forgiveness and the demise of some tax debts / House print 384 / - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance, will present the proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, in brief, I would like to present the main points of this bill. This is a separate law of one-off character with the subsidiary procedural regime of the tax system. We're actually dealing with two things here. The first concerns only natural persons, whether in business or not, and this is an extraordinary demise of the designated accessories of the tax by forgiveness. To imagine which instruments might be involved: interest on late payment or equivalent under another law, interest on the deferred amount, periodic penalty payments, penalty for late claim of tax, costs of proceedings including execution costs. There will be no forgiveness for accessories where there is no principal that could be paid, such as a fine. This does not apply to customs duties and its accessories, in the light of European regulations. In the case of principal, it must be an underpayment which arose by the relevant date, i.e. 30 September last year. The condition for forgiveness is the submission of an application and payment of principal by the end of the relevant period, i.e. by the end of November 2023. And it could also be a principal that's already been paid for. Even there, this extraordinary forgiveness of accessories will occur. The alternative is, and Mr Nacher spoke about it a moment ago, the possibility of payment in four designated instalments if the amount exceeds CZK 5 000. Thank you for the initiative, we will certainly have a debate with Minister Jurečka on how to unify it in both bills. Applications shall not be decided unless they can be complied with, the applicant shall be informed that the application cannot be accepted. Then, of course, the law will determine what the order of payments will be. But the principals that are enforced by the bailiff will be excluded, precisely because they were subject to Grace Summer I and II. I have noted the initiative in the debate, but that is why they are excluded in this proposal so far, because that would already be the third option in the same area, and it is up to the debate if we are to repeat it all the time. The second area of the proposed law is the extraordinary extinction - that is not forgiveness - of some tax defaults and of tax accessories. It is intended in this case for all tax entities, so in this case it will also involve legal entities. It is a debatable non-payment on accessories, the debatable non-payment is defined by the amount of CZK 200, and if the tax entity has several or more of these debauchable non-payments, the maximum sum that is forgiven is CZK 1,000. If the backpacker defaults of one tax entity exceed CZK 1,000, it will be forgiven only for CZK 1,000. It's basically the same scheme, the default had to be due by the end of September 2022. In this case, no request is made. If the bill is passed, it will end because of this proposed law. Maybe just for information, how much we cost in that area, how many debtors there are. I have data from October 2022, that is, after the decisive date of 30 September 2022. Active underpayments: Financial Administration 7.8 billion, Customs Administration 3.3 billion. Number of personal tax accounts or persons: with the Financial Administration it is 296 000 personal tax accounts, it is about 230 000 persons, it is 151 000 persons with the Customs Administration. Accessories are 2,9 billion in the Financial Administration, 1.4 billion in the Customs Administration. Then it is also a secured principal because it would potentially apply to interest: this is 623 million from October 2022 in the Financial Administration, 84 million from the Customs Administration. In total, claims for impregnability were written off: for the Financial Administration of 12.8 billion and for the Customs Administration of 152 million. Special categories are so-called judicial claims, where the potential for forgiveness is only CZK 28 million, but given that it is a specific group of persons, the assumption of fulfilment is much lower than the potential of CZK 28 million. And, as with any such measure, we can see positive and negative impacts on the state budget - positive that the principal that we would no longer recover - negative is that some tax entities could pay not only the principal, but also the accessories, but that is hard to predict. Thank you for your attention. And then, in the debate, I will actually propose a similar regime, which was proposed by President Excellent, which means that in the debate, I will propose a shortening to judge both of these laws at the same time. Or if President Delicious will suggest it? I'll leave it to him. And then there is a chance that a second reading could take place in the week from May 2, because the proposed effectiveness is on July 1, this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u3	Thank you and I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u4	Have a nice noon, co-workers, co-workers. I think the proposal here was quite sufficiently presented, however... [[Her phone's ringing.]] Oh, my God, I'm sorry, it's a pill, I'm sorry. The bill is presented following the project of a gracious summer - it has already fallen here - which was realized in two waves in 2021 and 2022. It consisted in the forgiveness of certain accessories in the case of debts to public entities enforced by bailouts when the principal was paid. Given that the vast majority of tax debts are not enforced by bailiffs - I, too, encountered this when we were presenting a gracious summer in the regions - a gracious summer had only a limited impact on the tax area. The subject matter of the bill is therefore the application of the philosophical bases of the gracious summer to tax debts which did not fall into the merciful summer. It is also the subject of the bill to the death of some of the negative tax debts, whose administration is inefficient from an administrative point of view. The acquisition of the effectiveness of the draft law is foreseen on 1 July 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Štolpa and Mr Nacher came forward. Mr Štolpa, please. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the bill is presented following the project of a gracious summer. We supported the first and second gracious summer as the YES movement, although it turned out that only a fraction of the borrowers took advantage of this option in his second round. In the second round of the gracious summer, the bailiffs ended over 9,000 execution proceedings. The repetition of this debt relief event was significantly less interested than its first round, as the statistics of the Executor Chamber of the Czech Republic show, because in the first case it was just 52 000 completed executions. This time people will be given a chance to get rid of interest and penalty payments on taxes and duties, if they repay the original amount due again. There hasn't been such an opportunity yet, because tax defaults are rarely enforced. The third gracious summer, or, as my colleague Patrik Pařil said here, rather the Graceful Autumn, could allegedly involve up to 380 thousand people. [[right Nacher]] The draft law seeks to create a tool to stimulate the motivation of tax debtors to pay extraordinary taxes, eliminate defaults whose recovery is not efficient and economical, and creates unique opportunities for a one-off reduction in the individual's debt. These basic objectives are pursued by two relatively independent measures contained in the draft law. In the case of both measures, it is materially a form of tax amnesty. This institute is known both from domestic and foreign tax law and is generally a factual and political instrument. The most basic premise, however, is the extraordinaryness of the measure itself, which prevents it from being used potentially to comply with tax obligations and unwanted speculation in this field. Both measures, which are regulated by the draft law, concern primarily the area of tax debts within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, in particular the powers of the Financial and Customs Administration of the Czech Republic. As a club of the ANO movement, we are prepared to support the bill. It is in line with the measures that we have already actively supported in the past. However, some parameters will have to be adjusted by means of the amendments referred to here at the previous point by Mr Patrik Nacher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u7	Thank you, too. President Excellent is registered with priority rights. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, government, colleagues, I will not repeat what I said in the previous press, but I have seen Mr Nacher's speech. We will certainly discuss this both at the announced round table and at the meeting of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement and insolvency. I've noticed some questions here about why the press isn't discussing the constitutionally-legal committee as well. I am also calling on the opposition to discuss this with President Vondráček, and he has asked me, given the number of press we have at the IDA, so that we do not place this press there, and we have agreed to submit information to the committee after it is discussed on the subcommittee that I lead, so that the constitutionally-legal committee will receive the information. Otherwise, here about the press - and I thank the Minister of Finance, his team, for actively taking over and preparing the press - we will certainly have a debate on the unification of the payment schedules, but there is still one thing that has not been said. For the purposes of this Act, taxes are included, also local fees. That's very important. If the councils of municipalities, towns and regions - near the regions - this concerns the contributions for breach of budgetary discipline - so if they approve a public decree, they will be able to join this event in this tax graceful summer - summer is not a season, it is like a year, in this case six months - so they will be able to join it. This concerns, for example, waste fees, cemetery fees, dog fees, etc. So it will be possible for the same regime, that is, once again, the obligation to pay the outstanding principal to the last koruna, to apply this so-called tax grace summer not only to those judicial fees, as the Minister rightly said, but also to local fees for municipalities, cities and regions. Therefore, in order to meet the negotiations as already announced by the Minister, please allow us to shorten, Madam Vice-President, the time of the hearing pursuant to Section 91 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of 35 days between first and second reading. This was discussed with the agreement of all the MPs, as well as with the previous press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u9	Thank you, too. The next one is registered by Minister Šalomoun. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on Mr Výborný. As far as local fees are concerned, this was also discussed at the Government's Legislative Council, and it must be said that this does not undermine the right of municipalities to self-government. They can even organize their own graceful years without this material. This is a kind of preset system to which they can join, and they can also use the media familiarity of these instruments, so that every community and every region can make parallel with this, or even against it, their own gracious summer under the conditions under which they will determine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u11	Thank you. Next is Mr Nacher's enrollment. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u12	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will now be more brief, I will follow up on what we have already discussed. For one thing, a graceful summer is not a term that marks the period, but we have explained here several times that this is some kind of term that is mentioned in the Bible. Last year's gracious summer was necessary in the winter. But I used the term "merciful autumn" to distinguish it so that someone doesn't really feel like it's the third, fourth, fifth, part, and didn't come out of the media and public space feeling like it's going to happen infinitely times. So it's more like defending ourselves before we really insist that debts are to be paid, that even in this case, the principal pays off and the accessories are forgiven, but that it's not a gracious summer because it doesn't concern executions that were enforced by private bailiffs, therefore a gracious autumn. If you find anything else to distinguish it with, I'm with it, but it seemed spontaneously like a good shortcut to me at the time. I'm counting on the Minister of Finance saying he's going to be dealing with unification of the payments. Indeed, as has already been said, the two proposals go simultaneously, including the discussion, including the timing, and the way we say use of the experience of the gracious summer I and II has been written into both of these proposals. [[12.10 hours]] Just like I said, I ran into those payments, and you have it, too, for one of them is divided into three different categories, and the repayment is paid in one, at 12, at 60 - that's the case with the CSSZ, while here in this case it's up to 5,000, and from 5,000, and there are those payments four to the quartel, the first is up to 30 November and the last is on December 2, 2024. So I'm thinking, I think it would be a good idea to unify it so that it's understandable. I don't know how we're gonna be able to explain in the media when someone owes $7,000 to social security, so they have 12 months to do it, and if they have to do the same for taxes, they have to do it in four instalments. I think that even for the communication of this gracious autumn, it is better to unite it. That is one point and I thank you for doing so, even though we have shortened our deadlines. The other one, that's what I said to get the writing out of it. (b) in this case, Section 7, where the remuneration of the relevant non-payment is broken down into instalments from the date on which the debtor's request for such distribution is lodged, unless, on the date on which the application is lodged, the relevant non-payment is enforced by tax enforcement. In other words, then let's talk about it professionally. We're kind of in the closet right now, professional business. In other words, if it was up to $5,000, it wouldn't matter, but if it's over $5,000 and the guy wants to spread it out on installments, he's not allowed to. My point is to look at the statistics, too, how many people are involved, because at that point in the case of the person with the principal of 4,500, it wouldn't matter if he had the tax execution there, and the person who owed 6,000 wouldn't mind, he couldn't split it into instalments anymore, so a whole lot of people could get out of it. In other words, what I was talking about was being enforced by tax enforcement is not about the law as a whole, but only about situations that would be dealt with through the instalments. And I pointed out that would be a shame. But I'm saying, it's probably a professional debate. I'd be sorry if the benefit that's here is, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's... that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, Well, then it's a shame to actually cut the payments that way, nothing more, nothing less. The other changes I said. The extension to health insurance was about the previous point, not this one, so here I only have the two points. This means, once again, the unification of the form of instalments and then, to cover cases that fall under tax execution. Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to working with the press on 384.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-002-021.u13	I, too, thank you and look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. Given that neither the proposals for repayment nor rejection have been made, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I can't see. I've gotten the hang of it. Before my colleagues arrive in the hall, I will apologize: Mr Heller Šimon apologizes from 11 o'clock for business reasons, Mr Michálek Jakub from 12 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Pošarová Marie from 12 o'clock for no reason and Minister Vlastimil Válek within 14 o'clock for work reasons. I'm gonna reengage. Just a moment longer, please, before my colleagues arrive at the O.R. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 38, registered 169 Members and Members, for 143. The motion was accepted. We have therefore agreed that the proposal will be directed to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees? It's not like that. The proposal to shorten the time limits has not been loaded here. [[Excellent Member: He was!]] 35 days, so I'm sorry, 35 days. So now we are going to vote on a reduction in the deadline for 35 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 170 Members of Parliament signed in for 145. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing item number 21 and opening item number
