ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all to the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I have first checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I'm announcing that I'm voting with card number 27. The meeting was convened pursuant to Section 84 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 13 January of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Renáta Zajíčková and a Member of Stanislav Berkovec. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone else having a proposal about the verifiers. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? In the vote number 1 of today's meeting 102 are registered, for 100. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Renáta Zajíčková and Mr Stanislav Berkovec, as verifiers of the 51st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that, before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Andrej Babiš, for personal reasons, for the whole day of the meeting. [[Let's hear it.]] Bělica Josef for the whole day for health reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel for the Potůčková Lucie for personal reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav for the whole day for personal reasons, Carbol Jiří until 15.00 hours for work reasons, Dražilová Lenka for the whole day for health štolpa, Dvořák David for the whole day for health reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav for the whole day for král Václav, Flek Josef until 14.00 hours for health Krutáková, Fridrich Stanislav for the whole day for the whole day for medical reasons, Michálek Jakub for the whole day for the whole Eliška for family reasons, Janulík Miloslav for the whole day for personal Quittová, Šimon Šimon until 20.00 hours for Zborovský Miroslav, Hrnčíř Jana for the whole day for foreign travel reasons, Janda Jakub for the whole day for the whole day for family reasons, Janulíková Petra for the Olšáková day for health reasons, Jílková Marie from 9.00 to 13.00 hours for personal reasons, Klíma Pavel until 13.00 hours for the whole day for the whole day for health reasons, for the Martin Hájek for the whole day for the whole day for the whole working time, Jilka. [[In the meantime, in front of the ODS benches, signs were placed with the texts "Welcome to work, Mr Babiš - 85 percent absent," "It's a campaign!".]] From the members of the government apologize: Černochová Jana until 13:00 for work reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole day for work reasons and Stanjura Zbyněk until 18:00 for work reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic can now proceed to discuss a single
