ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u1	93. Proposal of Members Patrik Nacher, Válková Váleková, Robert Králíček, Jaroslav Bžoch, Kamal Farhan, Marek Novák, Josef Kott and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended /German Press 48/ - Third Reading And I will ask that Mr Patrik Nacher, perhaps one of the other plaintiffs, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Aleš Dufek, take up the position of the rapporteur's chair. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 48/4, which was delivered on 11 January 2023. The guarantee committee did not deal with this bill because this was decided by the Chamber of Deputies at second reading. I am now asking the appellant, if I understand correctly, Mr Nacher, if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? [[No.]] He's not interested. So I'm opening up a debate, and now he's interested, excellent. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't want to abuse the words of the petitioner, but now I'm just going to briefly describe what this is about, or I'd like to begin by thanking you for being at that third reading at all, even though one of the things that we presented here right after the election was actually from opposition benches, and the government majority put it into second and third reading, so I'd like to thank you for that. It is, in principle, a minor change in the Civil Procedure Code, where, in Section 250c, it basically tightens up or I would say, precises that the courts should call on specialised out-of-court bodies to cooperate. The original paragraph is that a copy of the action will be delivered by the court to the administrative authority, which is the one who has decided on the dispute or other legal matter, and will allow it to express its views on the action in writing. The practice was that it would allow him to express that it turned out that often those out-of-court authorities didn't even know about it, that the lost party then turned to the court and no longer sued the administrative authority, but sued the consumer. When we were discussing this at the I.C.U. and then at the Consumer Protection Sub-Committee, they might have told us that they had thousands ČTÚ cases all along, only one case they knew about the trial. And we are making it more precise by inviting the court, inviting it, inviting the administrative authority to notify the court within a certain period of time whether it will exercise the rights under the second sentence in the proceedings, that is, calling him, proactively inviting him, calling on the out-of-court authority. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this proposal is to strengthen the procedural status of specialised bodies, which are specialised out-of-court bodies, which in the field of consumer protection solves specialized issues that in the courts, such as my experience, go too far on the surface - financial arbitrary, ČTÚ, ERÚ and so on, even there is the Land Register, as we found in a very detailed debate on the constitutional law committee. The principle is that, in part of the fifth Civil Procedure Code, they were partly converted into administrative bodies, that is to say, financial arbitrary, CTÚ and so on, just some narrow specializations, agendas, typically financial arbitrary services are different financial services that are used by consumers, and there is some assumption - and I am glad that we are discussing this in the third reading, and I hope that it will pass - that when the consumer turns to an out-of-court body that is specialised in the area, he expects to receive, say, a more competent decision than from the ordinary court, which deals with all things from Šumava to the Tatras, first. Second, there are some deadlines, and third, it's free of charge. That is, that is why people within the so-called - I would call it irrational apathy, which is used in mass lawsuits, do not turn, do not go to trial, it takes a long time, it is expensive, while to those out-of-court authorities it is. Often the result is that when the out-of-court authority decides for the benefit of the consumer, the company then turns to the court, but sues consumers already, the out-of-court administrative authority, and the consumer is suddenly on his own. And if the court doesn't address the proactively out-of-court authority, I've always set an example of a financial arbiter, at which point the consumer must defend himself by reading, I don't know, the decision, the resolution, the explanatory report and so on. There is a greater assumption, and here I would like to underline one thing that an out-of-court body as a specialised body will defend its decision infinitely better, more effectively and competent than a consumer who is not an expert. And I'd like to underline one thing that we've been talking about for quite a while - I don't see my colleague Karel Haas here - the change is neutral, which I would like to point out. While I describe it as consumer-friendly, because my experience is that it usually ends up in court with those disputes where the consumer wins in front of an out-of-court body, but the task of an out-of-court body is to defend its decision, so sometimes it can be the other way around and sometimes it needs to be 50-50, so the change is neutral. It is not that there is an administrative body going to court to defend consumers, I would like to underline that here, because it is not exactly described in the explanatory memorandum. So much for the debate on this standard, the press number 48. There is one amendment by the rapporteur that is moving this forward because we have been discussing this for some time now, and otherwise thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková is also reporting for the debate, so I will invite her to the speaker's desk. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Even I won't go into too much detail. We've been discussing this on the Constitutional and Legal Committee thoroughly enough, and I'd just like to stop by a few things that haven't been said yet. I think it is important, above all, to realise that by this amendment, or by this amendment, we allow the administrative authority and better the parties to the proceedings to explain, in terms of their professional competence, the reasons which led them to this or that expert opinion and, for example, to repeal or to any other decision, which I think partly also strengthens legal certainty and trust in judicial proceedings as such. This is what I think has not been mentioned here, and therefore, for example, the position of the administrative authority is strengthened not only for the proper procedure but also for the extraordinary appeals procedure. And the court is also obliged to do so, which it might not actually be, it should be automatic, but it is expressly imposed here that it must deal with the reasons for the annulment of the decision it has taken in its reasoning. [[12.20 hours]] I think that the rapporteur has also moved the subject matter in a certain direction that we do not mind the petitioners. Dr Haas - who is now coming, which we are happy to put forward in this proposal - in the context of the debate that took place on the constitutionally-legal committee, has drawn attention to some of the weaknesses of the proposal, this is about the third or fourth version that we have prepared, and I think we have quite factually opposed it in the sense that there is no imbalance in favour - as my previous speaker has already said here, through you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Nacher - for the benefit of the consumer. That was a debate that slowed us down a bit, because, of course, Mr Nacher, through you, Mr Vice-President, is known as a great consumer defender, and then... But I probably wouldn't have joined it, that wouldn't have talked me into it. And I think, with good conscience and knowledge, I can say that there is no one-sided deviation for the benefit of the consumer. Otherwise, when you look at your own text, it is such a simple legislative change, which in practice will in fact only improve the legal proceedings, without giving the system a wave and without happening something that any of the participants should be afraid of, or let alone the court, because some of those speeches have quite surprised me on the constitutionally-legal committee, I do not understand them yet. I think that they have been applied rather in terms of not studying the proposal thoroughly, because I also hope that it will be adopted. If it is adopted, there will be no major reform. It is merely a signal that we are improving and giving greater room for the professional expression of independent administrations and independent institutions, which have the opportunity to influence the outcome of the trial in the best sense of the word, so, of course, as the main promoter, Mr Patrik Nacher, through you, Mr Vice-President, I am intercede for your vote in favour of this proposal, but at the same time I note that there will be no major reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u5	Thank you. Mr Dufek is also reporting for the debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u6	As rapporteur, I would like to support this proposal. Basically, I just want to refer to the constitutionally-legal committee meeting between the first and second reading, when the representative of the Ministry of Justice here basically referred to this change in the Civil Procedure Code in such a way that it is not a fundamental conceptual change, it merely specifies the existing legislation, with which I fully agree, and that is precisely why we should support it. As far as details are concerned, here I refer to my previous speakers. I also draw attention to the fact that I tabled an amendment precisely because of the unreality of the original effectiveness of the law - I think that July 1, 2023 could already be real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for the debate? If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the petitioner or rapporteur? It's not. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee once again to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u8	We have one single amendment of a technical nature here, which is the setting of effectiveness on 1 July 2023, which I would vote on first, and then I would vote on the bill as a whole. Personally, I think it is so simple that we do not have to vote on the procedure for voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u9	Yes, I agree, another procedure is not possible even in the case of the existence of one amendment de facto. In the meantime, I've begun to get my colleagues to come to the ballroom. I'll repeat the voting procedure. First, we will vote on a single amendment and then we will vote on the law as a whole. I've logged the application from check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to log back in with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has stabilized. Once again, I will ask the rapporteur to present the amendment to his fellow Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u10	The amendment tabled at second reading on 11 January 2023 reads as follows: 3 '1 July 2022' is replaced by '1 July 2023'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-003-093.u11	I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 86, 134 Members were voted in, 134 voted in, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted the amendments. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will give you the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Patrik Nacher, Helena Válková, Robert Králíček, Jaroslav Bžoch, Kamal Farhan, Marek Novák, Josef Kott and others to issue a law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, pursuant to the House press 48, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 87, 134 Members were voted in, 132 voted in, no one opposed. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I state that we have given our consent to the bill. This has been dealt with by House press number 48, I conclude with item 93 and thank my fellow Members, both the appellants and the rapporteur. Let's continue with point number
