ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended /German press 457/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. Under the authority of the government, the proposal will be made by the Minister for Legislation, but I just read his apology, if I recall correctly. Sorry, I'm sorry. So, under the authority of the government, the motion put forward here will be made by Minister Černochová. I'm asking her to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Act No. 286/2010 Sb. [[No. 286/2021 Coll.?]] amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the order of execution and certain other laws, the special rules of enforcement have been included in the Code of Enforcement to stop the executions without result, in which there has been no partial satisfaction of the enforced obligation for 6 years, and the execution is not affected by the immovable property. This period may be extended repeatedly for a further period of three years if the beneficiary lodges an advance on the further management of the execution, but for a maximum period of 12 years. Before 1 January 2022, the execution clause or in which the enforcement order has become legally applicable is indicated in the execution procedure in which the enforcement order has become effective, the period prior to the application of the law shall be calculated up to the amount of the effective enforcement period, unless, however, before 1 January 2023. The rules on the stopping of resultsless executions also apply to the reimbursement of the costs of execution. The costs of the resulting execution shall be determined at the rate of the minimum remuneration and flat-rate reimbursement of the expenditure completed and shall be met from the advance on the costs of the execution or from the advance on the further management of the execution. Where the amount of the costs of the execution exceeds the amount of the advance lodged, the right of the judicial executor to the costs of the execution in a part exceeding the amount of the advance lodged shall cease to exist. [[13.10 hours]] The material under discussion therefore proposes to anchor that the bailiff should be terminated, suspended for no availability, the right to a flat-rate reimbursement of the costs of the actions linked to the cessation of the effective execution of CZK 750 plus VAT, to the State. The condition is that the enforcement procedure was initiated before 1 January 2022 and before that date the enforcement clause was indicated and, where appropriate, the enforcement order became legal. In view of the fact that the resulting execution under that legislation can be stopped as from 1 January 2023, the intended procedure for reimbursement of costs associated with the cessation of the resulting execution should be applied as soon as possible. By supplementing this legislation, it is possible to prevent potential risks associated with the fact that the existing situation could be found to be unconstitutional. It is proposed here to the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, agreed with this proposal at first reading. It is also proposed in this context that the law should become effective on the day following the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-001-001.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, President Marek Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-001-001.u4	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. I will be very brief because Mrs Černochová introduced the substance of the matter and the law, who I thank for it. As rapporteur, it is now my duty to remind me that this is indeed a response to the already approved amendment to the Code of Enforcement and the Code of Civil Procedure here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and to the fact that the instrument, or the regulation that means actually stopping vain executions, is dealing with the historical debt, what unfortunately arose here at a time when the entire execution system was de facto not regulated and it was one great Eldorado, so in this way we have to deal with the historic debt, however unpleasant it may seem, as it may be from a fiscal point of view and so on. I would like to stress that we have prepared this very brief amendment, which is proposed here for discussion under the regime §, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which I thank for, and in cooperation with the opposition. It was also discussed informally on the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement and insolvency. Vice-President Patrik Nacher was part of the team where it was discussed. Of course, we had a debate about the amount of the sums, but the resulting form is also some response to the current state of public finances. Thank you, Patrik Nacher, and thank you to the representatives of the SPD for being part of the debates and agreements. It is a rare example of consensus here across the Chamber of Deputies, which can help good things. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, if possible and you will express your will to agree to this bill, I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-21-ps2021-069-02-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby open a general debate to which no one applies. So that concludes the general debate. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of the proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 457 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting 3, registered 138, for 125, against no one. Accepted. The motion for a resolution was therefore approved, it was decided to continue the negotiations. I am therefore initiating this detailed debate, which nobody is reporting to. This concludes the detailed debate. I wonder if there's any interest in final words? Madam Secretary? No. Prime Minister? Not interested. In this case, we will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, according to House Press 457, as amended.' [[Conditions of execution]] Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered 138, for 127, against one. Result: Accepted. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Thank you for your cooperation with all colleagues. We can proceed to a point at this point.
