ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended /house print 297/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly make a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration. The Czech Mining Authority, which is the central body of the state administration of the Czech Republic for explosives, prepared the amendment. The Chamber of Deputies is presented to the draft law by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in carrying out the coordinating function of this Ministry in relation to the Czech Mining Authority. The main objective of the bill is to improve existing legislation, eliminate its shortcomings identified in practice, reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and save the funds spent from the state budget on the operation of the State Mining Administration. To this end, it is proposed: firstly, to link the information systems of the institutions Customs administration of the Czech Republic and the Czech Mining Office and thus eliminate the obligation of entrepreneurs to report some identical data to the Customs Administration and the Czech Mining Office. Secondly, to amend the organizational structure of the authorities of the State Mining Administration consisting of the abolition of the District Mining Authority for the territories of the regions of Liberec and Vysočina and the transfer of its existing competence to the District Mining Authority for the territories of the Králové Hradecký and Pardubický regions. After the adoption of the draft law, this amendment will subsequently be reflected in the Decree on the Headquarters of the District Mining Offices. Thirdly, to precise the method of verifying the integrity and medical fitness of persons handling explosives. Fourth, establish an institute for the so-called silent consent of the authorities concerned and intelligence services in the procedure for the authorisation of export, import and transit of explosives. Fifth, anchor the obligation of the relevant district mining office to inform the department of the Police of the Czech Republic, in whose territory they are to carry out the tearing work, ensuring a flexible exchange of information between the Mining Office and the Police of the Czech Republic. [[11.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this material at today's meeting as well as during further legislative discussions in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as at second and third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Michael Rataj, take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I have been instructed to introduce you to the House press number 297. This is a government bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended. He was prepared by the Czech Mining Authority as co-gestor of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The main objectives of the draft law presented were quite detailed by Minister Síkela, but I will at least repeat the consequences of the proposed regulation. First of all, it is the removal of the unnecessary administrative burden on public authorities and entities handling explosives. It is also an increase in the protection and safety of operations in the handling of explosives and optimization of activities of the authorities of the State Mining Administration. So much for a brief summary of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I open a general debate and ask Mr Marek Novák, who is signed up to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce you to the position of the ANO club. From our point of view, the law, or the motion to amend the law, makes sense. From our point of view exactly as it is proposed to cancel one of the eight district mining offices, namely the District Mining Authority in the territory of the regions of Liberec and Vysočina - it has its seat in Liberec. Unfortunately, it is facing a decline in the administrative and control agenda, and this is precisely because of the decrease in the extraction of radioactive materials, and in particular the end of the production on the Rožná bearing in the Vysočina Region. The agenda is designed to be transferred to the District Mining Authority for the territory of the Králové Hradecký and Pardubický regions, and this to Hradec Králové, which certainly also makes sense. It is also proposed to remove administrative barriers to the authorisation of exports of explosives. We know that it is very simple to address the agenda around explosives, and we always make sure that there is no room for unauthorized loading. Here, alternative instruments are introduced, where instead of allowing third-country authorities with an anti-export clause, namely the permission of third-country authorities or the declaration of a foreign end-user, just with an anti-export clause inserted and, of course, confirmed by the body there. The obligation to process the anti-reexport clause is newly required only for documents issued by the importing trading partner there, which also makes sense for us. This is what the Czech Mining Authority is doing for the practice used in the export of dual-use materials, so there is already a legislative experience here. Furthermore, in proceedings concerning applications for authorisation for export, import and transit of explosives, it is proposed to introduce a so-called silent consent institute, i.e. in the event that the authorities of the state administration or intelligence services do not object to a commercial transaction. Here we are glad that it is also meant for the intelligence services. Consequently, it will not be necessary to give a formal opinion and the process will be simplified. In order to better share information about issued permits between the Czech Mining Authority and the authorities Customs authorities here are proposing to change, automate the form through the relevant information systems and limit the flow of information to essential data for customs needs - thus again simplification, which we welcome. It is also proposed to remove obstacles for effective information cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic on large-scale tearing works. This consists in the introduction of a principle whereby the Mining Authority informs only one department of the Police of the Czech Republic, namely the department in whose territory the tearing work is to be implemented, so once again, both locally and in a process easier. It further modernizes the demonstration of conditions for the handling of explosives. Here we are talking about the integrity of individuals - it is primarily checked through criminal records and similar records. It is proposed to extend the conditions for dealing with explosives by not committing offences on the ammunition and pyrotechnic articles section, which gives logic, the medical fitness to check, inter alia, by assessing the health status through medical contraindications, which are set out in an existing decree. So all these changes definitely make sense for me, and we welcome the novel here and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-13-ps2021-050-04-007-010.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? I see no proposal, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister, the rapporteur, do you want the final words? [[- Thank you, I don't want to. Rapporteur: Thank you, no.]] Neither does the rapporteur. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I want to ask if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see any applications, in which case I'll vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the Committee on Economic Affairs be the guarantee committee for this press? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 79, 156 Members and Members signed up, 128, against no one. This proposal has been agreed with and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether there are any other proposals for the commandment of this press? I do not see any proposals, and since we have already voted on all previous proposals, I am ending this point and thank you. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
