ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-002-143.u1	143. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Organization for Cooperation in the field of arms exchange and mutual protection of classified information /German press 441/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Minister Jana Černochová. You have your word. And I'm gonna ask everyone in the room to keep their voices down in the meantime, or to have a discussion outside the O.R. One more time, please, everyone, just calm down. On the left side of the spectrum, please, once again, please, be calm. Professor... thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-002-143.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the proposal for ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Organisation for Cooperation in the area of arms exchange and mutual protection of classified information. As can be seen from the name itself, the main objective of this international organisation, in short OCCAR, is cooperation on current and future joint armament programmes between Member States such as Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Great Britain. The conclusion of this international agreement is necessary so that the Czech Republic, or Czech entrepreneurs, can participate in the OCCAR programmes in the future, in which there may also be an exchange of classified information. The proposal to negotiate the agreement was initiated by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in early 2020. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the agreement was in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. The negotiation of the agreement was led by the National Security Office, which is the central administrative office for the protection of classified information and security competence. In the course of the negotiations, the objective set out has been achieved, thereby enabling the exchange of classified information between the Contracting Parties and ensuring their adequate protection. To this end, both Contracting Parties undertake to provide exchanged classified information at least as much protection as they provide their own classified information. In particular, they undertake not to allow access to classified information provided by the other Party to unauthorised entities or third parties. In addition, mutual notification obligations and forms of cooperation are laid down. In expert meetings, the interests of the Czech Republic were to the greatest extent possible and OCCAR agreed to the draft text of the agreement in August 2022. The Government of the Czech Republic has agreed to negotiate an Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Organisation for Cooperation on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information by its Resolution 1079 of 21 December 2022. Subsequently, the contract was signed in Prague on 23 March 2023. I now propose to you, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-002-143.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jiří Horák, whom I do not see here. Will anyone take this instead of Mr Horák? [[Member Bžoch reporting.]] There's got to be a vote. I'll call the MPs. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur, Mr Horák is not here. Because I think it's a formality, we can start voting. Who is in favour of the rapporteur becoming Mr. Bžoch? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 370, registered 145, in favour of 110, result: accepted. The rapporteur is Mr Jaroslav Bžoch. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-002-143.u4	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. The Minister made a proposal to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Organisation for Cooperation in Armament on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information. In fact, we've had it since 2019 when we were approached by representatives from Italy. This is specifically about the exchange of classified information in the area of arms. It is intended for both governments and, of course, for our armory. Personally, I think that's a good deal. It will also facilitate cooperation in this area and in the context of classified information in the future. I hereby ask you to assign me to the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-002-143.u5	Dear Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, have a good afternoon. I am opening a general debate on this point. I don't see an application. If this is the case and no one is reporting to the general debate, then I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if they want the final word? It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? I see no other proposal, in which case I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the front to the vote. I will repeat the proposal: we will now vote on the proposal to be discussed in the foreign committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 371, 145 Members and Members registered, for proposal 123, against no one. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to this proposal. I note that the government's proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Since there have been no other proposals for vote, I thank you and I conclude the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, which is
