ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another day of session adjourned by the 60th session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to sign you all out first and ask you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 63rd and 64th meetings. The same is true of the apology at the hearing, and so we refer to the 63rd and 64th meetings. This meeting was adjourned before the programme was approved when Members were given priority rights. I now have two priority rights here, Mr Vít Rakušan and Vice-President Karel Havlíček, with the wish to speak before the debate is opened. So I wonder, does this continue to last? Mr. Secretary? Yes. And Mr... Wait a minute, we need to be clear, because there is still an interest in President Andrej Babiš, but unfortunately I do not have his application. I'm sorry, please, just a moment. [[A group of Members and Ministers met at the seat of the President for consultation.]] Please, nicely, I'm declaring a five-minute recess, or 15.20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-060-02-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. I would remind you that the verifiers have already been identified and are Barbora Urbanová and Ondřej kolář. I'll also read the apologies that came in the meantime. He apologizes to Jiří Kobza from 16 o'clock for work reasons and Richterová Olga from 15.00 for health reasons. I thank all those who took part during that brief pause to discuss how we will proceed. We will proceed in the following way. We would now proceed to the establishment of the 60th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 141 Members and Members signed up, for 127, against none. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of the show that is
