ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I further say that we have a series of apologies. The following Members and Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Babiš Andrej the whole day for working reasons, Bartošek Jan the liška Petr for working reasons, Bělica Josef the whole day for working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel the whole day for family reasons, Brázdil Milan within 13 hours for working reasons, Dražilová Lenka from 9 to 11 Marek for working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav the whole Novák for working reasons, Exner Martin from 12.15 to 13 hours for working reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav from the whole day for medical reasons, Fiala Radim the whole day for Kovářová Věra, Fischerová Romana the whole day for medical reasons - health reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav the whole day for Vít Kaňkovský, Helebrant Tomáš the whole day for working reasons - working days - working reasons - Maříková days, Heller Šimon the Krutáková Jana for Karla reasons - personal reasons - Kasalovak David the whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Kettner Zdeněk up to 12 hours - working hours - working reasons - Naiclerová hours - Hana Martin - full - working reasons - král Václav - working hours, all - working reasons - working days - working days - working days - working days - Nováková hours Nina all day - working reasons, Okamura Hayato all day - foreign trip, Pokorná Jermanová Jaroslava all day - working reasons, Potůčková Lucie all day - working reasons, Pražák David whole day - family reasons, Růžička Pavel whole day - foreign trip, Svoboda Bohuslav whole day - working reasons, Štolpa David from 13 o'clock - health reasons, Teleky Róbert whole day - foreign trip, War Helena until 11 o'clock - working reasons, Volný Jan whole day - medical reasons, Vondráček Radek whole day - medical reasons, Vrána Petr whole day - working reasons, Ženíšek Marek all day - foreign travel. Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes from the members of the government from the entire meeting day due to foreign travel, Balaš Vladimír the whole meeting day - health reasons, Bartoš Ivan within 12 hours - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole meeting day - health reasons, Blažek Pavel within 13 hours - working reasons, Černochová Jana within 14 hours - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan the whole meeting day - foreign trip, Nekula Zdeněk until 14.30 hours - working reasons, Rakušan Vít all day - family reasons, Síkela Jozef all day - foreign trip, Šalomoun Michal all day - personal reasons. And yet Mrs. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová's note arrived within 12 hours for family reasons. That would therefore be all the apologies received, and we will begin today's negotiations at paragraph 127, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would remind you that, according to the approved agenda, we will proceed immediately after this item number 127 has been discussed with consideration of the fixed points. And please note that by 11 o'clock at the latest, applications for oral interviews may be submitted and their lottery will then be drawn. And so I'm opening up a point.
