ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets /house print 488/ - first reading Before the debate was opened, President Marek Benda came forward with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u2	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, on behalf of coalition clubs, that we discuss the laws today and, if necessary, vote, although I do not believe that this will be possible, even after 19 and 21 o'clock. Notice, I'm not suggesting after 24. It's after some sort of grémia meeting, and I think that the appreciation that we've been treating each other fairly well over the last two days, and that we should treat our employees fairly well, so that the night between 24 and 9 a.m. should be reserved for our and employee rest. I am in favour, I hope, of the protests that President Babiš raised against me yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u3	Yes, this is a procedural proposal, and I will call on my colleagues from the lobby, and we will vote on it immediately. Let me just remind you how the proposal was made to negotiate and vote on the laws after both 19 and 21 o'clock. I am opening the vote (number 17) on this procedural proposal and I ask who is in favour? Registered 163 present, for 146, against 11. The proposal was adopted, and we will act after nineteenth and twenty-first hours. So I am now opening up a government bill amending some laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets, the House press 488, first reading, under the authority of the government. The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. So I ask him to take the floor, and I ask you, colleagues, to keep your voices down, or to move your conversations to the lobby. [[There's noise in the hall.]] Once again, I ask my colleague and colleagues about the silence so that the Minister can speak to the law. Now I have the wrong card with a factual remark from the Minister. But I can see that there's been a mistake. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the government, let me present to you the House press number 488, or draft law amending certain laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets. I think it can begin with the question of whether we need to consolidate public finances? The answer is yes. Can we ask ourselves whether public finances are in good shape? The answer is no. Let's try to remember what base we're coming from. I think it's always good to use data, arguments, facts much more than unsubstantiated estimates and hauntings. In 2021, public sector debt was 5,1% of GDP. I would remind you that this figure is calculated as the sum of the results of the state's or state's budget, the management of all self-governing units, municipalities, cities, regions, health insurance companies and others for 2022. Over a single calendar year, we managed to reduce this indicator by 1.5 percentage points to 3.6 percent of GDP. And we do not need to remember how hard budgeted the year 2022, especially in connection with Russia's aggression in Ukraine, with an unprecedented refugee wave, when we, as a Czech society, were able to take care of hundreds of thousands of refugees before the war, especially women, children and seniors. Very often, two extremes are used in this public debate, firstly, that we are in danger of the Greek scenario in the near future. It's not. And secondly, that we are okay, that there is nothing to be done, that there is much more indebted European countries. I do not agree with this view either, and I consider this extreme. All experts will tell you that because you finance state debt, it is not only relative or absolute government debt that is important, but also how strong the economy is. The stronger the economy, the better it places its government bonds on the market. So, yes, we can say that Germany has more public debt than the Czech Republic at the moment, but this does not mean that we would be able to issue our bonds as cheaply as Germany. Before I begin to justify the details of the proposal, one more reminder, one line that is so poetically named in the state budget by the government debt service. I'd rather call it interest on old debts. Last year we paid 50 billion, this year 70, next year 90, in 2025 more than 100 billion. And that's already happened. With that, neither the government nor the House nor the Senate will change anything. [[14.10 hours]] In other words, when we like to monitor on a daily basis the implementation of the state budget, hypothetically in the first second next year, 2024 we start with minus 90 billion, because it will be interest payments. I want to recall one completely flawed instrument, and that is an anti-inflationary bond. We know for ourselves how large the debt of the Czech Republic is, close to 3 trillion crowns. For 80 billion of these bonds, we paid 12 billion interest in January. If we had borrowed all the other debts anyway, we would have paid hundreds of billions each year, this year, for interest on government bonds. This is just one example of when something is being promoted, said how great it is, but this is true when inflation is not high. The impact is extremely high and it is also one of the reasons why this year's budget developed so badly and so dramatically at the beginning of the year. We have graduated as a government coalition, and I think it is no shame to admit it, on the contrary, long months and weeks of intensive negotiations on what instruments to choose to reduce the state budget deficit and how to contribute to the consolidation of public budgets. It is logical, there are five separate political parties, we had to find a compromise. The package, the recovery package would look completely different if it were prepared by any of these government parties separately. I think it's logical, but it's not worth representing five hypothetical theoretical scenarios here, as it would seem if. I just remind you that in the last parliamentary term, two parties ruled with the support of the communists, and we have often witnessed that they were unable to reach an agreement. And also in the boom times, unfortunately, reserves were chosen to serve for a worse time. I would remind you that our neighbor, Germany, has repeatedly managed with considerable state budget surpluses in the boom times. The recovery package is a set of 63 laws. We presented the political agreement about two months ago. Most of the reduction in the state budget deficit is on the expenditure side, and the vast majority of these steps do not need legislative anchoring, so it is not included in this recovery package. But thanks to the time we are discussing this, especially at the time when we are discussing second and third reading, it will already be in the Chamber of Deputies - I think it will miss or cover it - the draft state budget for 2024, where everyone can check whether the executive measures, and I will remind them: a reduction in the operating expenditure of the state, a reduction in the total salary volume for civil servants, a cancellation of agendas and a substantial reduction in the volume of national subsidies, must and will be included in the draft budget for 2024. So in this recovery package, because it is legislation, there are changes that need legislative change and that will lead to a reduction in the deficit of state budgets. Let me remind you of the total number. If we approve the recovery package in that volume, and the State budget for 2024, we assume that the positive impact on the state budget next year will be around 98 billion, which means in other words a lower deficit than if we had not adopted the package, and in 2025 it will be almost 150 billion crowns. We want to continue the trend of overall deficit reduction. I was just saying how interest payments go up. This means against last year we will pay only for interest plus 40 billion crowns. At the same time, a large majority in the Chamber of Deputies, and I thank the YES movement for that, we have approved the Defence Financing Act, which legally tells our allies that we will fulfil our allied commitments and that we will spend 2% of GDP, or at least 2% of GDP, in defence, starting next year. This is against this year plus 50 billion on the spending side and against 2022 roughly plus 70 billion. This means only the two items, the increase in defense spending and the increase in interest payments against last year, will be next year plus CZK 110 billion. Nevertheless, we have an ambition to reduce state budget deficits. This means that the reduction must be higher than CZK 110 billion against 2022, because otherwise we would not have achieved that result. Of course, we can have a debate if we agree on whether we need to reduce state budget deficits and stabilise public finances. If we agree on this, then there is a legitimate debate about which instruments to choose and, of course, we are prepared for such a debate as government parties. From public appearances, public opinion polls published by independent institutions, from the way we meet voters, it is evident that the vast majority of Czech citizens see as priority savings on the part of the state. I think that we are meeting this view across the political spectrum, and we are responding to this call in our actions and we are going across the street. That is why we will reduce operating expenditure, which is why we will cancel the agenda, so we will reduce the total amount of salaries, which is why we will cancel or limit national subsidy titles. It's not a one-week assignment, one-month, one-year assignment. The press sometimes ask me if this investigation will continue. I take it for granted. We manage taxpayers' money, so that we spend it effectively is the everyday task of all who influence it and that Members of the Chamber of Deputies have an influence on it, it is undoubtedly true, because in many laws, unfortunately, we are adding additional mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. If we look at these numbers objectively, we find that there is a narrowing of space for the political set, for the fight of programs, arguments, ideas, because if you are increasing the volume of mandatory and quasimandatory expenses, we can logically only lead the political fight together to an amount that is neither mandatorial nor quasimandatorial. And I think it's time to turn that trend around and increase the share of the other expenses, not to increase the mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. Often, when we discuss individual bills, we forget. Our own decision - note that I use the word we use, and I do not want to distinguish whether it is a coalition, a opposition, whether it was a past or a previous parliamentary term or a previous term - increases the share of mandatory and quasi-mandatory expenses. And I do not consider it good for political competition, for the fight of programs and ideas. That is why I am often, even though it is not popular - not always, but often - against the automatic valorisations of one, the other, the third, the fourth, the fifth, that it once again reduces the scope for the political competition of programmes and ideas. We believe that to answer that fundamental question, yes, we need to reduce state budget deficits, yes, we need to stabilise public finances and we need to put greater emphasis on the expenditure side of the budget. I often hear that on the spending side of the budget, by reducing expenditures, by hitting citizens or companies. Well, that's true, but so do you, when you take some measures on the income side, that means you raise taxes, hit citizens or companies again. [[14.20 hours]] There is no source of money, the state has no money other than the ones it collects from taxpayers, and let's not be confused, taxpayers are not only economically active whether natural persons, employees or firms. Each of us who buys is a taxpayer because they pay VAT in every purchase regardless of the age or social group they belong to. At the same time, we have tried these unpopular steps because they are unpopular, but if you want to be responsible to rule, then you have to do the right, even if unpopular measures, we have tried to prepare so as not to hit any social, age, professional group too strongly. This is the result of our considerations, our actions, our political compromises. At this point, I mean it in good political compromises, I don't take it as an excuse or as something pejorative. Now let me introduce at least some of these proposals gradually, because I am sure there will be time to debate and I am prepared to answer or explain more detailed questions. When you look at the bill, the individual bills are sorted according to the legislative rules of the government, that is, not according to the importance or volume of the impact on the state budget, but according to when the original laws were adopted, that is, according to the number in the Collection. Let me not follow this list in my introductory words, but rather focus on the larger items and then on others, because something that I think is not the subject of a political struggle, which is part of some modernization of the state, such as the abolition of stamps, has an impact on several laws. Or the unification of the recovery of judicial claims, which according to the Minister is not a political dispute, has once again an impact on several laws. I have heard many strong words from the opposition in the last days and weeks, actually since 11 May, no doubt the opposition has the right, claim, no criticism, just saying, let's ever stop and look back, hear those strong words again, and then see what the reality was. About a year ago, we acted here when the opposition filed a motion to express distrust to the government of the Czech Republic. Legitimate move, I do not question it at all, but in the past few days I have looked into many of the appearances of opposition MEPs that were to happen in autumn and winter. We can't do without Russian gas. The gas will be missing. We're gonna shut down businesses, tell us in what order. Businesses are going to fail in the masses, there's going to be a lot of unemployment. That's been said repeatedly here. If one of the members of the opposition movement begs for names - I will use the winged "do not be polite, say names" - I will refer it to the tapestry, there are also names, you can study it together and we can marvel at some very strong expressions that described the Czech Republic in 2023 as a failed country full of poverty, unemployed and failing businesses. As a society, we made it, so when we hear strong words again, I say - let's wait for the results, we can have a competition for who will say a stronger statement from the government camp to the opposition camp or from the opposition camp to the government camp. Since February, we have been listening to strong words from the opposition about the catastrophic outcome of the state budget - 450 billion deficits, 400 billion deficits. Mr Nacher wonders, and it is unfortunate that he is sitting directly against me, so it is nothing personal to him. He chose the place, normally sits elsewhere, doesn't he, wanted closer. What's the reality? We said, "Let's be patient, let's wait for the June figures, then the Treasury will come up with an estimate of the implementation of the state budget for 2023." I am pleased to have the opportunity to show this outlook on the basis of data, facts, not as it often seems to me that this is how three opponents of the opposition will take the glass sphere. And the worse the number, the bigger the headline, and they think it's gonna give them more attention. Yes, they may have more attention that day, but I say we get back to the facts, get back to the data. I remind you, in 2022, we have reduced public sector debt to GDP by 1.5 percentage points. And we're gonna keep doing this. In recent days, the last time I saw statements in the debate on Czech Television with Mr. President of the SPD: historical tax hikes. So let's look at the facts first. This year - and I will speak first only of taxes - the state will collect about 1 trillion Czech crowns. Adding less than 700 billion social security to this, we're at CZK 1.7 trillion. Adding to this public health insurance, which is paid by employers and employees, because the payments for state insured people are elsewhere, we are roughly at the number of CZK 2 trillion per year. This is the real tax burden in the Czech Republic, because social and health insurance, although they have the name of insurance, has the character of taxes, namely equal taxes. With certain limitations, one of them is upstairs under the roof. Unfortunately, the measures that we are bringing are also increasing some taxes, and let us discuss which taxes, whether the entire opposition is opposed to the increase in all taxes that we propose or partly. When we look in volume at the measures that increase revenue, the increase in corporate tax by 2 percentage points from 19 to 21 per cent is the highest in volume, which, according to the static calculation, can add 21 to 22 billion per year to the state budget. It's not popular, most entrepreneurs and employers I've been talking to in the last few weeks tell me - it's not happy for us, but we'll deal with it. Among other things, because we have - we live in the fourth year, when the state, the state budget, that is, taxpayers are massively helping the business sector for many good reasons. First, it was two covido years, and let's just say how massive help there was. And let's say that in some countries it was in the form of a loan. Last year, some 72 billion crowns went to help with high energy prices outside the standard, standard, usual grant titles. This year, more than 100 billion will go from the state budget to the price ceiling, the ceiling of regulated energy components and the payment for renewable resources. I didn't add up the four numbers, I can make it to second reading, maybe even during the first reading. But it is hundreds of billions of crowns that taxpayers have provided to help industry and employers in difficult times, and I do not question the reasons. Maybe we could've done something different, maybe better, maybe we could've targeted more or been more across the board, I don't know. At this point, we propose that we get a much smaller part of this aid back in the form of corporate tax. This is the most significant increase in taxes in volume. The second maximum amount of interest is the renewal of sickness insurance for employees of 0,6 gross salary per month. You have in the explanatory memorandum described quite detail what was the historical development, how much was paid until 2008, it was 1.1 percentage point. After that, the so-called quarantine period was introduced, i.e. three days of the first sickness was no remuneration from the state and for this minus employees received benefit, or plus, that instead of 1.1 percentage point they paid 0. Then in 2019, if memory doesn't deceive me, Parliament decided to cancel the Karenary period, that was a political decision, that is, the first three days of sick leave are newly paid, the first fourteen days of sick leave to the employer, that is, it was a benefit plus, but the first plus that covered it minus, that is, zero sickness insurance remained. [[14.30 hours]] What happened to the system? He's become a long-term deficit. We were faced with a decision, and we could basically have four possible solutions. First, do nothing. To keep it as it is, and as we watch the deficit in our pension account every year, we would monitor the deficit in our sickness insurance account. Each of the four options I will talk about, including this one, is politically relevant and depends on the political decision. The second option was that we would go back to the Karen period, which means we would keep the benefit that there would be no payment of sickness insurance and put to this minus, they would not be paid for the first three days of sickness. The third option was to leave sick leave as paid today, not to go back to the time of the card, but to go back to that until the time of the card was elected, that means 1.1 percent of the gross wage each month of sickness insurance. And the fourth option that we finally came to, which was compromise, and I think is helpful when we didn't raise 1.1 to the original level, but 0.6, which is the number that should secure the system, will be balanced. It won't be deficit, it won't be surplus, it won't be balanced. Yes, it's not popular, the numbers are valid. If I take roughly an average wage of around 40,000, each of us can calculate that it's 240 crowns, so at an average wage of more than 40,000 today, it's 250 or 260 crowns a month. Just to remind you, at the time we all paid up, who were employees of 1.1 percentage point, those benefits that were paid were less. The palette has spread over a father's, long-term infirmary. This means that more social benefits are paid from this system, and if it is to be - and I think it is - a solidarity sickness insurance scheme, it should not be deficitful. This is the second largest measure in volume with an impact of approximately CZK 11 billion per year. I am talking about these things in such detail because they form a substantial part of the increase in income and I think that both of these proposals are reasonable, defendable and explainable and have their rational reasons. If we do not want to have a sickness insurance system either deficit, or if we do not want to reinstate the time of the card, I am aware that in this Chamber of Deputies, the majority of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, regardless of whether they are in the government or in the side benches, are against the reintroducing of the period. So we chose the solution to make it approximately even. There's been a debate over tax exemptions for years. For years, different governments and different Parliaments have been called upon to reduce the number of tax exemptions. We bring 22, not 21 tax exemptions. I will speak of one that was in the original proposal and which we have eliminated on the basis of the position of the Legislative Council of the Government at the outset. We also wanted to tax compensation for expropriation, with quite logical justification. When the state needs some land, you sell it to it, and the time has passed, you tax the income and you're supportive of the state. At a time when you're not friendly with the state and the citizen or the company has a right, I'm not criticizing it, the expropriation institute must be used, so it's legally exempt from income tax. Personally, it seemed unfair to me. However, from a constitutional and legal point of view, this tax exemption must be maintained, precisely with the fact that, on the one hand, a voluntary act on the part of citizens or companies, sales, and, on the other hand, in quotation marks, but I think it also corresponds to that legal dictionary, a violent act on the part of the state, expropriating land. If someone were to look for what was originally reported 22 and now counted honestly and found out that it was 21, this is the difference in that one tax exemption. And I'm gonna help myself with the explanatory note so I don't forget any tax exemption, and I'm gonna try to walk you through it gradually. Maybe I'll start with those very often mentioned and criticized, and I think it's a good idea to have a debate about the unpopular proposed changes to tax exemptions. It's a general rule. In principle, we all agree that there is a need to limit the number of tax exemptions. But look out! At the moment when the tax exemption affects me or any social or other group, it needs to be maintained, do not disturb us, cancel some others. And we tried to explain why some tax exemptions were to be maintained, and we went the other way around. We didn't have a goal: we have to cancel ten, fifteen, eighteen, seventeen. We said to ourselves, "Let's go one by one and see if it makes sense, whether we preserve it, whether we preserve it in full or to a limited extent, or if we propose to completely abolish it." This is the result of our consideration, our joint action and our compromise. I'll start with what I heard yesterday - canceling the student tax discount, Stanjura wants to take money from the students. So let's first describe what the current state of affairs is and what the new state will be. Thus the basic discount for the taxpayer applies to students, which means CZK 30,840 is the basic discount for the taxpayer. This means that if the student earns CZK 205,600 a year tops gross, no income tax will be paid, he will use the basic discount on the taxpayer. I don't know how many of us know exactly how much the student discount is today, and what gross wage that is. That was a rhetorical question, so I'll answer it. The discount is CZK 4 020 per year and corresponds to the income of CZK 26 080. In other words. If we take the 205 600 and add the roughly 26,000 to it, we get to the sum of some 231,000, and I don't pay anything yet. If a student earns over 231,000, he's already paying a normal tax like everyone else. So the whole fight - as antisocial in government quotation marks - is a narrow group of students who have income between 205 600 a year and 231 600, because up to 205 600 have zero tax, over 231 000 in old and new state pays 15% tax and we are talking about section 205 or 206 to 231, 232 000. We ask ourselves, when I'm a student and I'm entitled to a discount, when I have a long, intensive and regular study, in other words, it doesn't apply to distance and distance studies, how many students, when they do this, have a chance to earn between 205 and 231 thousand a year, because only those proposed discount, the abolition of this tax exemption applies. A very small number. The tax exemption is unnecessary and it is good that it is designed to be cancelled. Another, much discussed tax exemption, is a discount on a working wife or a working husband. When you ask people who do not move in tax law and do not pay themselves, the vast majority of them think that this is the case when a husband or wife, wife or husband takes care of a small child. That's a logical explanation. And it's not true. This means that we have finally come to propose a restriction on this tax exemption and will remain preserved if the wife or husband or wife, as they please, take care of the child under three years of age. I think it's reasonable and it's targeted where it's meant to be. [[14.40 hours]] And it's not true. This means that we have finally come to propose a restriction on this tax exemption and will remain preserved if the wife or husband or wife, as they please, care for the child under 3 years of age. I think it's reasonable and it's targeted where it's meant to be. There's a lot of debate going on, and we're being very critical about it, and I'm first focusing on those criticized tax exceptions, not avoiding them in the debate, is canceling the tax discount for placing the child, so-called. Kindergarten. Let us, in particular, relieve low-income families. That's a good target. Although I am not the only one, many, as well as economic experts, believe that the tax system should not be a means of social policy of the state, that the social policy of the state should serve precisely the social welfare system, social assistance, social support. I don't know why. Unfortunately, today in general Czech in the public debate, the word social benefit has a rather pejorative touch. I don't see it that way. I think that if, and it is in the vast majority of cases, one needs help, so that we can call it social assistance, there's nothing wrong with it, and it's not a pejorative designation of the institute or the person who just needs help and takes social welfare. We've done an analysis of who draws on kindergarten regionally, incomely, it's very simple, I think it completely misses the intention for which it was introduced, the upper middle class draws kindergarten. It's quite logical, because in our system of other tax discounts and tax exemptions, the low-income family doesn't need it anymore. And he doesn't pay any more taxes, or he takes a tax bonus. If you look at the regional distribution of kindergarten, you will find a not surprising fact that it does not actually correspond regionally to the percentage drawdown of the kindergarten percentage of children living in the region. At least one percent of the kindergarten is pumped in structurally affected regions. In structurally affected regions, it draws at least as a percentage and the differences are not marginal, but very interesting. I'd like to know what Mr. Nacher will say... I can't hear it when he says it with a low-pitched voice or a low-pitched voice. Another cancellation of the proposed tax exemptions, I'll be quicker not to spend five minutes each, out of 21, that would be 105 minutes, i.e. an hour and three quarters. We propose the abolition of the exemption of unpaid employees' remuneration, the abolition of the exemption of over-the-counter meal vouchers. Surprises for many - there are also meal vouchers of 500, 600, 700 CZK per day, which are exempt from income tax. Restrictions on the exemption of income from raffles and gambling, where the proposed reduction is the limit from today's 1 million to 50,000 crowns. Cancellation of deduction for membership contributions to trade unions. Repeal of the special tax regime for the salary of the President of the Republic. Cancellation of tax deductibility of silent wine as a donation up to 500 CZK per representation. Cancellation of the deduction of payments for tests verifying the results of further training. Cancellation of the exemption of wage compensation in mining and income from miners. That sounds awful at first listening to us canceling. I just want to say that this exception could have been drawn, it remained in the law, but it has not been applicable since 2003. At first glance, it looks like we're taking something from the miners, just clearing the Income Tax Act on provisions that can no longer be used in practice. Then we unite the selective exceptions to the general non-purpose limit. Because when you have so-called. other revenue, such as: the price of the tender, the state contribution to building savings, exchange rate gains in money exchange, performance for the provision of public cultural services, etc., so we combine it all into one, we cancel it and we give one limit of CZK 50 thousand per year without tax, for the simplification of the tax system in this case, it is not the abolition of the tax exemption. And maybe the last thing - we had a debate, not just us, but above all, there's actually been a debate all the time in that public space, from the moment we approved the reduction in personal income tax. The fact that we canceled the super gross wage was just an institute, the important thing was that the rate is 15 percent, and not 20.1 which would correspond to the previous rate, so there's a debate about whether or not to return it etc. We have reached a compromise within the government coalition, maintaining two rates as we have so far - 15 and 23 per cent, increasing slightly by the fact that the second rate is from four times the average wage, we propose that it be from three times the average wage. Each of us can see what the average wage is, what it means four times or three times. Many of us have so-called. pay domicil, so he knows how many percent of employees take the salary or salary in which category, depending on whether they work for the state or in the private sector. These are actually almost all the changes proposed in the personal income tax. [[Maybe I forgot something.]] I have already talked about this fundamental change in the corporate tax because it is the most significant in volume, i.e. an increase in corporate tax by 2 percentage points from 19 per cent to 21 per cent. At the same time, we are returning to something that has already been in the Czech tax system, and this is a restriction on the recognition of tax expenditure for more valuable vehicles. We set the value of CZK 2 million without VAT. I was assured that all cars that are made in the Czech Republic would fit there. Just to remind you, it is sometimes really funny, so in 2020 101 new Ferrari cars were registered in the Czech Republic, 96 as service cars or corporate cars. And without a doubt, the tax deductible costs are the ones you need to secure profit, which means that an entrepreneur needs a service vehicle is without a doubt, the question is whether it should be fully tax-acceptable without a limit. We propose that the limit be CZK 2 million and at the same time we propose that the VAT refund be from the same value, i.e. from CZK 2 million, 21 percent we quickly calculate that it is just over 400 thousand. We do not prevent anyone from buying more expensive service cars, they just won't be taxworthy and will not reduce the tax base. At the same time, we are taking the next step to support emission-free vehicles. We're together, I don't know if last year or year, I'm sorry, if you have a company vehicle for private purposes, you have a contract with your employer, so from a conventional vehicle, from a conventional motor vehicle, you pay 1 per cent of the purchase price per month, respectively. tax 1 per cent of the cost of the vehicle. For low-emissions, we have pushed through and are paying 0.5 purchase prices today. We're suggesting that the emission-free, or electric cars, is 0.25 percent of the purchase price. We refuse to support electromobility with a system of subsidies. Some European countries are doing this by directly granting subsidies for the purchase of an electric car. We are going the way of economic motivation, whether to reduce depreciation, to accelerate depreciation, including the infrastructure of charging stations, and to reduce this limit, if you have a service vehicle for private purposes, to 0.25 percentage points. [[14.50 hours]] So much to say, basic changes in the Income Tax Act, whether natural or legal persons. VAT, we propose to return to a proven system of two VAT rates. We suggested that we maintain a base rate of 21 percent and instead of a reduced and a second reduced rate, we had one reduced rate instead of 10 and 15 percent so that we could have one rate of 12 percent. At the same time, when we propose two rates, we have quite honestly gone over all the items that are currently in those reduced rates and we have again acted in the same way as those tax exemptions. We tried to identify some social, economic, social, health, reason for a given commodity, product or service that should be entitled or entitled to be at a reduced rate on the basis of this claim. Of course VAT is partly a harmonised tax, so no Member State or the Czech Republic has completely free hands and are simply commodities and services that must be at the basic rate. Of course, the Member State itself chooses how much the basic rate is, how much the rates are reduced and how high the reduced rates are. Perhaps I would just remind you that three large items in the family budget, or consumer basket, will reduce VAT from 15 to 12 percent. We can have a debate on whether it will be interpreted in part, in full or at all, into end prices. Time will judge us. It's actually not worth it. The debate can only be academic, but it is the three basic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u5	Yes, Minister, I understand. I'll ask my colleague and colleagues to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u6	- three basic commodities. Food from 15 to 12 percent. Construction work on housing from 15 to 12 percent. Medical supplies from 15 to 12 percent. These are all significant, in this case negative, impacts on the state budget, or in favour of taxpayers. This is a tax reduction. Overall, our estimate at this point is that if it were approved as proposed, the negative impact would be about six or seven billion. Of course, it will depend on the final form of the law in order to quantify, estimate, much more precisely. I'm just reminding you, these are static models, they can't be dynamic. This means, however, that nothing better than either the cash or the accrual impact of these measures is simply not available. I'll move on to excise duties. This morning, we approved an amendment to the Consumer Tax Act on diesel. That means there is no design for diesel or unleaded petrol, of course. We've had a debate here. Some of us have been performing in recent weeks or months on a tax exemption called the abolition of the exemption of aviation fuel. It's very nice, I'd love it, except it's not just European but globally harmonised. All we can do is cancel the exemption - and we propose it - are domestic flights. For all other Czech Republic as a signatory of international agreements is not able to... The existing Directive of the European Union contains mandatory exemption of jet fuel within the framework of international transport and transport within the European Union. There's a review at the moment. I take the side of those states that want to abolish the exemption, or let the Member States abolish the exemption obligation. It's completely different. When you have an obligation, you must have it, and when we cancel that obligation, it depends on each Member State that, according to its economic situation, how strong this sector of industry is, it either does or does not. Furthermore, we want to simplify the backs for so-called green diesel only according to normals. Today there are two options - normalizations or actual drawing. We only propose according to normals. It's in the spirit of what we've often presented. Some confidence in the businessman. If they're normal, the administration will fall off both the side of those who draw it and the state side, so it's a reduction in bureaucracy. We're canceling another tax exemption. This means abolishing the refund of excise duty on mineral oils in mineral and metallurgical processes consumed. We're getting excise duty on tobacco. In the previous parliamentary term it was first used in my opinion a good and suitable institute of a three-year tax plan. That was twice, this year ends in a coincidence. We, given the year in which we are in the electoral cycle, have come up with a proposal for a four-year tax plan so that the future government does not have to deal with a possible extension of the tax calendar just a few weeks after its establishment. For standard cigarettes, we're suggesting it's 10, 5, 5, 5. This means that this will increase by 10 percent in the first year and 5 percent in the next three years. Of course, when determining these percentages, we looked especially at the surrounding countries, where at this point the only one who has a lower excise duty on tobacco is Poland. But even in Poland, there is an approved four-year tax plan where they increase excise duty by 10% each year. Another category we've been dealing with is heated tobacco. We have a sentence in the programming statement that I think most of the political representation will agree on, regardless of whether it is in the government or in opposition, that in this case we will impose excise duties on the degree of harmfulness. We do not say that something is not harmful, but heated tobacco is less harmful than classic cigarettes. That's what experts tell us, experts. Even in this case, we propose a tax calendar four times 15 percent. Today's situation is that the tax burden on heated tobacco corresponds to about 21 percent of the taxation of classic cigarettes. By proposing a faster tax calendar for heated tobacco, after four years, this tax should reach 29 percent in relation to the taxation of classic cigarettes. Then we also focused on products that have not yet been taxed, whether they are nicotine bags or electronic cigarettes. For the first time there is an attempt to tax new types of products that are still known. When you look into the last, I don't know, 8, 10 years, there's always been some new product in this industry that hasn't been tax-ridden for some time. We remember here the tobacco leaves that used to make tobacco for smoking. Then came the heated tobacco, so again some period was not taxed. Now we have nicotine bags, electronic cigarettes. So in this proposal, let's say, there's an attempt from the beginning, if there's a new product coming, how to tax it as well. Because if the product is not taxed, it is not subject to excise duty, so I think it is gaining more room on the market than the means that are subject to excise duty. Likewise, the excise tax law solves the tax on alcohol. This is actually the first time we propose a tax calendar for four years, actually in the same percentage increase as for tobacco. This means 10 per cent in 2024 and 5 per cent in the next three years. When I compared it, as the opposition says - an extraordinary historical tax increase - I described the highest figures, and let's say that the excise duty on tobacco is three billion a year. [[15.00 hours]] And, of course, it's a question of whether or not this is going to be the subject of a political struggle. Whether this is an increase that the opposition as a whole - I know we have two opposition movements - rejects or does not. Because then you have to, if there's a partial consensus, count this value off the political struggle for the rest. Gambling tax. I think we all know the current situation, including how gambling taxes are divided. Today we basically have two rates of 23 and 35 percent, when both of these rates are so-called land base, i.e. in offices of either 35 or 23, as well as on the Internet by type of games are rates of either 35 or 23. Our proposal is that all games on the Internet be subject to one rate of 35 per cent, and all others, that is, land base in those establishments, are subject to one rate of 30 per cent. At the same time, we propose that all online gambling taxes end up in the state budget. Today, part of it is divided between cities and municipalities. There are no externalities of being played on the Internet that can arise. So our proposal is that all income from gambling on the Internet ends up in the state budget. Otherwise, the proposal preserves the status quo. For myself, for the Ministry of Finance, I say, if there's a majority opinion that the state should take more of the others, I'm sure I'll support it. If someone is saying that they want to reduce the incentive of municipalities to allow these facilities on their territory, then, of course, if a larger part is taken into the state budget, this motivation will be reduced. However, at this point, we are proposing status quo mainly because the construction organisations were very keen to do so. In particular, the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I think it is no shame to admit who specifically wanted, for example, to maintain the current distribution of this tax. We propose that our proposal increases the revenue of the state budget by CZK 4.2 billion. That means, once again, my question is, and that is not hypothetical, and I will try to get an answer from the opposition during the first, second reading, whether this tax increase is also the subject of criticism and political struggle, or we agree. If we were to agree on this, once again, from where there is a political dispute, this four billion must be deducted or more than four billion, with tobacco, that is more than three billion. Real estate tax. According to all international comparisons, according to all the recommendations we receive from the OECD not only in this election, but also in previous parliamentary periods, it is stated that the share of property taxes in the Czech Republic is extremely low against GDP. We are about 36. from 38 OECD countries, which is not the most important argument. However, what we are proposing is the introduction of the so-called State coefficient equal to coefficient one. This represents an increase in tax revenues by about nine billion crowns. Moreover, we are introducing - in this case, I don't mind - a valuation mechanism for real estate tax, which, of course, also concerns the money that ends in municipal budgets. It is generally a problem if the amount of tax or any parameter is given in absolute value in the law, so sooner or later the fair value of this amount simply decreases over time. Plus, we're trying to solve some of the old problems there. And now, just like me, I think we can sometimes say a problem that looks awful big and then you find out when you look at the fact that I think the problem can be easily explained. I have answered some of you's questions about why we propose to abolish the property tax on ponds. Because the Financial Administration has to assess whether or not fish are kept there. And the annual yield of this item is, please, 1 025 000 Czech crowns. And if we were to do it honestly, we'd have to go around all the ponds and see if there's fish or not. I don't think it's a fisher's liking or anything. But it's a normal human response at a time when you have a total yield of CZK 1 million from a national tax, so it's appropriate to say that the costs will certainly be higher than the revenue. Other bills also serve, for example, to reorganize and simplify the Customs Administration. As I said, to abolish the stakes, to unify the recovery of judicial claims. Of course, part of the recovery package is the amendment to the Act on the salaries of constitutional officials, where when you look at it, the rate of valorisation decreases faster than the rate of valorisation in other laws where we have taken a similar step. I've been looking at how long I've been talking, I think it's just so slow, even though I could talk about it for a long time. The reason report has about 500 pages, but I think it is time to give room for those who want to comment on this in more detail in the first reading. I frankly say that yesterday I was confronted with him by journalists, first reading does not serve to present amendments. Of course they can, but I think the time for amendments will come at second reading. And then the negotiations in the amendments and the decisions of each club to support them will come between second and third reading. So when someone asked me yesterday if I had seen the opposition's amendments, I said no, but that there was still enough time. [[Mrs Schiller from the bench suggests that they are not yet.]] They're not. Maybe they will, maybe they won't, I'm just saying that it's quite logical that, at first reading, individual amendments are not yet being loaded or put into the system. Then I'll go back to where I started. It's not popular. We have to do this. When we took government responsibility, we said we'd make the right decisions, even if they weren't popular. I believe that the recovery package is in favour of a better future of the Czech Republic, a better state of Czech public finances and a better state of the Czech state budget. There is no paradox that healthy public finances are much more important for low-income and medium-income groups than for others. These fellow citizens are much more dependent in a good way on helping the state to be the first if the state were in some major economic problems and would not be able to provide services to the extent that citizens are accustomed to. I read it, I didn't count it, it's the fifth recovery package in the history of the Czech Republic. There were named individual finance ministers or prime ministers who were at the time head of the government or head of the Ministry of Finance. And I have learned a rather surprising thing, and I say this to the opposition, which includes us with very strong adjectives, that it is the first recovery package that does not go into the welfare system. This may be because, as I said in the opening speech, we tried to find measures that would not affect any group too much. I believe we did it. I believe that the debate will be correct, factual on the basis of facts and data, that these strong words will not sound too much. When it sounds, nothing happens. I think it's okay, and I'm gonna tell you what I was telling you today about how you were guessing and how you were haunting before last winter, how you criticized and knew how the state budget was gonna end. The numbers eventually decide, the numbers show that the person with the strong words, three times a day, said how bad things were going to turn out, whether he was right or wrong. [[15.10 hours]] I don't think there's any point in telling who's right in advance. We believe that the bill is balanced, correct and necessary, in a good sense, the result of the political compromise of all five governmental parties. And on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, I ask you to release this bill to second reading. And I look forward to a debate that will guide us through the whole legislative process in the lower and upper chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u7	Thank you, Minister. And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jiří Havránek. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we voted that we are not going to have a long night tonight, as the Minister of Justice said, through Madam President, but we are still going to have a long day, and I will try to be as brief as possible in my report and on the basis of a rather broad report from the Minister's translator. We have a government bill amending some laws relating to the consolidation of public budgets, a media-known consolidation package or a recovery package, which is one of the key outcomes of the agreement of the parties to the government coalition, which was finally presented to the public at the press conference on 11 May 2023. The Government has submitted a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to 30. 6. 2023, as House Press 488, and on the same day, this proposal was sent to us as Members. This press is the most important part of the measures aimed at reducing the structural deficit of the state budget and consolidating public finances, focusing on the issues that require legislative solutions. Of course, all of you who have seen, whether a press conference or listened to other statements, whether the Minister or other government officials, know that, subsequently, there are expenditure measures on that side, which you will also find in the explanatory report of this tax package. The idea starting point and the basis of many of the measures you will find, whether in this press or in the whole recovery package, was the discussion, whether with experts or with members of the National Economic Council of the Government. The formal translator, the person with whom I will therefore spend many days and evenings during this half year or several months, is the Minister of Finance, but it is a set of proposals, on which the other ministries also participated. We will find legal measures here thematically from resorts of course finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Industry and Trade, Transport, Ministry of Justice and Ministry of the Interior. Overall, this proposal contains amendments to 63 legislation on more than 700 pages, including the explanatory memorandum. There is a cancellation, as we have heard, of 21 tax exemptions and a reduction or modification of one such tax exemption, as well as a reduction in the number of VAT rates to two with rates of 12 and 21 %. The overall financial impact of the consolidation package as a whole for 2024 97.7 billion crowns, for 2025 53 billion crowns, with the fact that income, therefore, means what we are dealing with here in particular in this House press, in 2024 it is CZK 35.2 billion and in 2025 CZK 37.1 billion. As much as I have promised, my brief news report is short and I look forward to and believe in a substantive debate and debate. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. And before I open up a general debate, I'm going to add apologies. Mr Bžoch Jaroslav apologizes to Mr Bžoch Jaroslav, who takes back his apology and apologizes from 15 to 16 o'clock Mr Bžoch and Mr Metnar from 14 to 15 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Špičák from 16 o'clock for family reasons and Minister Rakušan from 18 o'clock for personal reasons. I am opening a general debate in which I have a number of priority rights. And I'll be the first to ask Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, yesterday I assessed the situation, I took it a little more politically and I tried to outline the arguments why I believe that your package, I take it that way, I take it from the tax side and from the savings side, cannot work. I'm gonna go into more detail today, but I'm just gonna get back to it a little bit, because I think it's kind of a big deal. Doing this crucial, this important step means you have to tear down the public, you have to tear down those who are supposed to help you. To help you do this, it means they have to trust you. And unfortunately, you're in a situation where the people you want no longer trust you. Can we talk about why this is so? Because your budgets didn't work out 2022, you probably won't get the total budget 2023 as expected. But maybe less important than the numbers is how it's being prepared, how it's handled there with different tricks, cheats and so on. You just don't trust people like that. At the same time, you want them to save, but you don't set an example, whether it's because you have three more ministers, that you have a whole range of new political representatives and so on. I think the question of trust in this is extremely important. At the same time, I outlined here yesterday that, from my point of view, you do not have enough personnel capacity to build confidence that this, let's call it, restarting the economy, because that's what you might call it. Rather, counsellors are distrustful, and this is not about those counselors being bad in terms of their qualifications. It's about the fact that they don't have the responsibility and they want to make themselves visible. And you're extremely leaning on a whole series of advisors. The fact that your people are not trusting shows this, for example, that we are discussing a very fundamental economic matter here, and the Minister for Economics, although I know that this is not the name, but we can say that it is largely the Minister of Industry, Trade, Innovation, Energy and so on, not here. In fact, he hasn't been here for a long time. And the last time I checked, did anyone happen to see Minister Síkela? I'm sure you remember the movie Looking for Nemo. We can say, "Looking for Jožka." If any of you, please, see him nicely, from the Coalition Members, tell him that there is a very fundamental economic matter going on here and that it would not hurt if he showed up too and, for example, in the area of industry, energy, which will undoubtedly concern him, so that he can say a few words or his point of view. Another problem is that there are five of you. That's reality. You're creating an eintopf. You throw everything you can into it, one gets the wine in exchange for getting 0 percent VAT on the books. And that's how you put it together. Yes, that's the result of a five-wheeler. That's reality. And the last problem from my point of view is that you don't have a clear and coherent vision to go to. And it doesn't have to be long. We can criticize the vision, but you should defend it, and no matter if you lose or lose a voter, you should go to her hard. I haven't seen a vision from you. I see a lot of ideas, ideas, some better, some worse, but once again I dare say that it is largely a tax for a bit of chaotic five-calice, I mean chaoticly folded in the sense of all possible directions. We fundamentally disagree on one thing, and that is that the restart of the economy, at least that's how I feel about it, we perceive that it should be done through the private sector, by motivating itself, I mean companies, businessmen, employees. At the same time, we believe that it has to be done through savings, but quite clear, and it cannot be avoided at the same time, at the same time, that it has to be done so that it does not increase taxes except for the absolute exceptions that we are able to agree on. I'll get to it. Among other things, we didn't even do that in covid time. And you know very well that we have reduced taxes, however unfavourable the economic situation was. [[15.20 hours]] At the same time, we believe that apart from the fact that taxes must not be increased, so they must be collected consistently. Yes, we openly say that we want EET again, just as you said you wanted to cancel it, and we have reasons to believe that you do. And it's not just the customer reasons that we're at the moment for laughter to the whole world, when we're canceling credit card payments, cash only, but it's because the state is losing resources, and it's because honest businessmen are very upset. But that's finally what we warned about, and you know it very well. And then we think that we have to look into the future, because it's not just about the current situation. We may be saving something today, maybe helping something, maybe better, maybe worse, but what's it gonna be in two, three, four, five years? And we can only do that if we allow the private sector, not the state, to invest again. That the state is catching up and that it invests in roads, in highways, is undoubtedly good, but we must first of all release the plug for companies to invest, so that they have the desire to invest, of course for families, and at the same time to create an environment in which to innovate well, in other words to create new products, research, science and so on. That's our vision. You go through the state, not through the private sector. How many times have you said at that press conference - in my view very bad - how many times have you said - we apologize. How many times have you said - we believe you, that's what companies will do, that's what they have to do. Everything was just -- we do, we decide, we do it. You're demoting the private sector with all the measures you've taken and introduced here a while ago. Savings that we can partly agree with you on, I'm not saying that on all of them, but we're discussing them, you're replacing - I'm not saying completely, but to a large extent - loans. So I will, but you can borrow money at the same time. You raise taxes, there's no doubt about it, here we are fundamentally different. In addition, you send companies into the grey zone, whether through EET or by de facto creating additional burdens for them, for example in the form of higher contributions for self-employed people, which will undoubtedly be the response of many of those companies by going more in grey accounting. Investment. As much as you say you support them, you're starting to dampen them. For example, let us look at transports that can no longer be built. Well, about research, development and innovation... And it's true, Minister, 1/20 roads, look at this, a terrible pity, at České Budějovice, what the ŘSD said last week - we can't compete because the funds are missing. It's two billion. But we can talk about individual constructions. We haven't happened in the last three or four years. And as far as science, research and innovation are concerned, you released the first balloon, minus 10 percent, although a few weeks before that, you said you wouldn't touch the money. Yes, now you're taking me to be objective, a little reverse, and you're saying maybe it's not the 10 percent. But maybe there's something else that matters here. Not only do you take 3 %, 10 % or leave it to zero, of course it's better to let it go, ideally add a little bit, but I understand that we're in a tight situation and that you're probably not going to add much. But just the way you're thinking, and you're going to let it out, that the science is going to be taken, that means we're thinking economically completely differently. This savings is the most expensive one that could happen to us. To recapitulate our view and your view. We report - feel free to criticize us for this - that we would go through the path of savings through a structural deficit based on CZK 50 billion a year. You can say it's not enough, and we'll argue that it's enough, even I'll argue that in my opinion you won't be able to do much more, but we rely on it to find these resources. I was discussing it here yesterday, I'm willing to open it again, and it would be the part where we agree, that means, that's the savings on the state, that's your 20 billion crowns. And we could probably unite on these very specific taxes -- and I'm going to simplify that here -- these are the vice and gambling taxes, and so on. And then we'd go through the EET, we'd probably disagree, we'd go through a more consistent tax collection. But we claim that we would be able to save 40 to 50 billion. If we turn this around four to five times, I'm taking the structural deficit of CZK 200 to 230 billion, we could do this in four years. At the same time, we say we don't pour out a bathtub and a baby. To put it simply, we could reasonably invest, but we could maintain a reasonable increase in spending on science and not hit the most social groups. You say something different, we go 90 or 140 billion crowns a year. And I will try to prove to you that you have it built on water and that you will not reach the 90 to 140 billion crowns in the next or the next year. The taxes are uncertain, and the expenses, I'm afraid you'll be bypassing the loans to a large extent. Make me specific, first with the taxes. I'm principlely opposed to the way you set taxes, which means you're increasing them across the board. I consider it counterproductive and it bothers me for many reasons. It bothers me, too, because your pre-election rhetoric in 2021 was completely different. And you can tell - the situation has changed. I'll take it. But you had a completely different rhetoric back in 2022. Even in the fall, Prime Minister Fiala claimed that the taxes you eventually increased will not increase. And he's said one word so far - we're not raising taxes. Period. And he took them all apart before. So it was in October 2022. You already knew the situation, you already knew how it didn't work out with energy prices and so on. You already knew what was coming. The final budget of 2023 has already been prepared. But you had another rhetoric in 2023. Yes, even the Minister of Finance, Mr Stanjura, said in April that he did not know anything about increasing contributions for self-employed people. He said so a few weeks after the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs announced precisely this. And finally, that's exactly what happened. I don't know how you communicate with the government. Of course, it bothers me that you are introducing quite a lot of confusion into value added tax. Yes, you, on the one hand, say-- we'll scramble it from three to two. So I take it the zero isn't, even though we can argue with each other in a way, but that's not the point. But I'm really missing the logic. You say-- let's simplify it. Well, who do we simplify it for? For the state. But in the finals, you yourself admitted that, it might be six, maybe seven billion in terms of loss. [[Minister Stanjura sometimes has a note off the microphone.]] And it can be. There. And at the same time, it doesn't help those who buy those products, because with a dose of probability, it can be assumed that of those 15 to 12 percent it doesn't show up at those prices, maybe it will slightly increase from those 10 to 12, which means the sum of the sum for the customer no big benefit. And I don't take it that you've got yourself into your own loop and that you've made a total mess about it, that on things like magazines, baby water, magazines versus newspapers, baby water versus wine, and so on, of course, you've dug up ditches, and you'll never get rid of those who want to criticize you, completely objectively and rightly claim that you've been misbehaved, whether that's true or not. And I don't want you filming it on porn magazines. That's not the point. There are far worse things here. In a way, this is a kind of bitter cherry on a cake. Finally, in the time of the covid, we did a number of things that we had to take back, you remember coffee cups and so on. But there is one difference, Minister. Coffee cups were decided in one hour and we had to take hundreds of precautions. And when we did something wrong, the next day we apologized for it, and we changed the cups. You've had it for months, and yet you've made it all so confusing. But again, that's not the nature of the reboot, it's just accompanying phenomena. I really can't help but wonder, Minister, that ODS specifically raises such flat-rate taxes, even if you're bagging it in the sense that it's basically nothing, it's a few billions. But if you look at it, you're basically going through a carpeting raid, somewhere more, somewhere less. [[15.30 hours]] And today I was in a duel with Mr. Vice-President Skopeček. Basically, you just said something like that here. The Vice-President said that if she put the ODS together, it would be different. This is a compromise. You basically said the same thing a moment ago. Well, Minister, that's not a compromise, that's surrender. It's like the ČSSD workshop or the communists. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Madam President, if you please calm the Minister...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u11	Yes. Gentlemen, please don't yell at yourself, and if so, the Minister may make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u12	So take Diazepam or something... [[Laughs in the hall.]] It's about peace. You spoke calmly, you spoke well, I'm trying... [[Voice off the microphone again.]] I'm not nervous, I'm not yelling at you. And I repeat, if you have anything to say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u13	I repeat, gentlemen, please do not communicate directly with each other like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u14	So one more time. It is not, Minister, a compromise, it is a surrender - and I repeat - from the ČSSD and Communists workshop. And you just yelled right at me here - your coalition partners. That's what you said. We had coalition partners of ČSSD; The communists didn't, they silently supported us - you're right about that. And I'm glad you reminded me because they wanted us to raise taxes. And you must remember that well. But we had the strength to oppose them, and we never let taxes go up. You, as perhaps the strongest party of the five-calice, at least through mandates, did not have that power. That's why you surrendered. You've been capitulating in front of activists, in front of various progressives, in front of different Marxists, in front of all those who claim that by raising taxes, we're going somewhere. I really don't know where your ideas are. I find it completely morbid that the Minister for ODS is defending tax increases. You have two options - be silent, but I understand that you have to say something, so at least I'm ashamed that we're raising taxes, but it's more important to five-calice that we keep it than our belief that raising taxes will not benefit economic growth. But you've sacrificed it and you're defending it, I say again, you're defending tax increases. It's like a bad movie. Because you, to a large extent, are threatening the future growth of gross domestic product. What worries me more than your deficit this year, whatever it is, is how the structure of gross domestic product develops. He can't leave us alone. [[♪ to ♪]] The fact that today GDP is driven mainly by the state's investment and that it is driven by the consumption of the state is a bad sign. That's what companies are supposed to do, that's what consumers are supposed to do. And what you're doing is you're demotivating consumers and those companies. Yes, you can now argue that in 2022 it did not turn out so bad - and even that the collection of corporate taxes may be above expectations. Good riddance, if that were the case. First of all, it is not thanks to you, because of course it is commuting from some inertia, but most importantly - let's see the year 2023, how the management is developing. [[develops]] Of course, the year 2022... the energy fixations and so on and so on, energy and so on, but the year 2023 will undoubtedly be worse, and this is reflected even now in the structure of the gross domestic product. We can see how Germany is, we can look at his recession, our connection to Germany. So there's nothing famous for us, but if companies limit investment, if companies limit spending on innovation, well, logically, it will come out to us. And we are not having any fun at all, as it will, of course, be reflected in the consumer segment, which, of course, will have a problem with both the purchase of consumer goods and investment - which we can see quite clearly today. So what's bothering me the most is the structure of gross domestic product, in other words, what it's going to look like in two, three, four years. You can say - that doesn't have to bother us anymore; but I'm pretty worried about it. If I were to conclude with the taxes, we could now argue and argue about how much you're actually going to collect or not, we're going to argue to you about how your windfall tax estimate didn't work out, and so on, now you're going to say that it's going to be better now... I don't know. But it's a debate without a winner, Minister. In my opinion, it is not worth discussing, from my point of view it is more about ideology. You simply believe that the way is to raise taxes, and I am of the opposite opinion. Period. It's a fundamental issue for me, it's essential, which is why I personally will never sign your package because you're not going to reboot by raising taxes. Before I go to the other area, and that's the expense, it's just a little plug to respond to you, Minister, when you brought up here what we predicted and how it didn't all turn out. I was quick - maybe you said more - remarked three things, because behind everyone was me, the simple thing, it doesn't have to be people looking for who was so far. Havlíček. The first was - our ugly energy prospects and how it turned out in the end. Well, unfortunately, it turned out a lot worse than we expected, because the essence is one thing, and that's energy prices. What energy prices look like, we know. The highest increase in energy prices for 2022 and so far the highest increase in energy prices for 2023. According to two independent sources, this is the European Statistical Office and the consortium of companies established by market regulators in Central Europe. Household Energy Pricing Index. [[Price]] It's a disaster. We can't get any worse at prices. So that's our prognosis and your activities that were associated with it. Russian gas. Yes, I said Russian gas - watch out, you're saying a pretty substantial thing... to the European Union (?) that the European Union will not be able to do without it until the end of 2022 and maybe even in the next period. [[Did you?]] This has unfortunately been confirmed, by 2022 the European Union really did not go without Russian gas, I say unfortunately, thank you for the next few months it has improved considerably and today the dependence is no longer, I don't know, 40 percent, but it is below 10 percent within the European Union, which I think is a good thing. So part yes, part no. It did not go to the Czech Republic, of course. The way I believe you've finished your studies, Minister, it doesn't affect that. And then I said one more thing here, and it wasn't haunting. I said, do a scenario of turning off the gas, what stages and who will stand in those groups as it turns off. And I responded to the fact that you said yourself that there might be a situation that there would be no gas in Europe. And I don't know what's weird about the opposition calling and saying - you don't have a script prepared as it would be. [[That's it?]] What's weird about that? That - thank God - it didn't happen, it's only good. But the fact that someone reminds me there's no script like that, I really don't see anything weird about it. But let's not do that. More important than what I've said so far, because we can argue long enough about it, but we're not going to find any winner here anyway, are the expenses, because you've already set it up at the press conference, how, especially on the expense page, the savings will be created or, let's say, the deficit that's going to shrink and a little less on the revenue. I am of the opinion that it will be the other way around, but to disprove me - which I suppose is also this discussion - so please explain a whole series of items. First of all, the positive one that we agree on, even if it's not that simple, and that's the savings on the operation of the state, I believe I have the right numbers, 11.2 billion and the savings on the salaries of 9.7 billion, rounded 20 billion crowns, which we have no fundamental problem with. I'm sure he'll want to show it in more detail. Then you have other expenses at the level of three billion -- here's a question mark, and here's a question mark, please explain to us what the other expenses are. And then there's the most important thing. I had to focus on it for a while, because your unfortunate press conference where you let those college students who were taking their conclusions from the Bachelor's thesis sort of vanished the most important - and that's how much you're actually going to save. Then you were asked by a number of journalists, and you are finally Czech Radio - and I hope I say this correctly - he replied: We may have drawn graphs wrong, but in 2024 it should be 47 billion and in 2025 54 billion. I'm based on the fact that the Czech Radio said it right, and let's talk about these numbers. Of course, the numbers are hard on the water these days. You guys may have split them up -- at least in that global view -- a few resorts, but to make sense of it, well, we need to talk about a bigger detail of the numbers, or nobody's gonna believe you about this. That is, if you are saying here today that it will be CZK 47, or CZK 54 billion and you are showing the various ministries, then we need to show the details of what programmes and what specific expenditures it will touch. You haven't said anything yet. Neither to us, so be it, you ignore us, nor to the media, which last night, I suspect, requested that list from you two days ago. That's where you told them it was You'll deal with it later. All you've said so far is a statement that you know what we're up to and that it's definitely about subsidies for Agrofert. No, it's not that - you're obsessed with it. It's about explaining where you're gonna get the money at each department. And let's start with the biggest one, and that's the Ministry of Industry and Trade. You say there won't be 20 billion crowns. Now, please, Minister, even if the Minister is not here in the industry, tell us where the $20 billion will be. [[15.40 hours]] We know we have three options. I take the largest amount, which is less than CZK 19 billion for renewable energy sources. Either they're going to be on the shoulders of the state, then what you're saying doesn't apply, or you're going to bring it back to the consumers, so you have to tell everyone that you're going to cost them energy again, or maybe it's not going to pay off to those investors, which means those who built it here, among other things, the ones that we argued about in 2021, as you tried to increase their yield percentage, but let's leave that aside, it's a different time. So I don't see the savings on the subsidy business here. If, of course, you don't take that step, I'd take that step, but I'd be against it, but I'd take it that way that you'll actually save it, so you'll take it from those investors. Then you'll no doubt be expected to sue here for ten years, and from my point of view, you don't stand a chance to win it, because the argument that they've already paid for it is really odd. A third of them have been bought over for a whole different amount of money, which might still apply to the 2010 Klondikes they made here, but they're already out there somewhere. Well, then we have the Department of Agriculture. There, according to the information from the Department of Agriculture, you can find not ten billion, as you write, but low units of billions in national grant programs. I don't know exactly, but we have a new Minister of Agriculture here, so I believe he'll explain. Then the Ministry of Transport, where Minister Kupka is already a little more precise, six billion, takes it that two billion will be taken on the regional roads and four billion crowns will be taken on maintenance and administration. It sounds logical if it wasn't for B, and it's like he's gonna be replacing loans, which he's already doing. I'm sure you remember how we fought here all year when I said that credit through the European Investment Bank was counterproductive. You assured us how great it would be. It's a good interest rate, okay, so there's a 4-4.5 percent interest rate. The SFDI will eventually pay back, perhaps one day, Minister, the Minister of Transport, it will fall on you and you will be the one who will have to pay off these loans. I'm in principle against it, but that's a different matter. I'm just saying this isn't a savings game, this is a savings game. You take it, they take it on credit. The Ministry of Regional Development 2.8 billion, so please let someone tell us what it's going to be about, and if it's going to be something to replace, or not, the blackout, whether they're going to take credit, or if they're really saving it, you're right, yes, it's saving, not in the subsidy business, so we can understand each other, because local communications, kindergartens and the like aren't subsidization business, but it's definitely spending that's related to the budget and we can save it. But please say it, you can't look like you're going to invest, so you're going to cultivate the environment and at the same time you're going to save, you just can't do both. It's the same with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. If it's gonna be the two billion in the end. When I talked to Minister Bek about it, among other things, one of those quite helpful ministers, he didn't have a hard time with it. He said we'd save $2 billion, borrow $45 billion. Great farm. Well, then there's 13.4 billion others. That's not exactly a small sum, so please let us know what it is, the others. We don't have to go to hundreds of millions, and it's at least 13 billion crowns. And to make it credible, well, it's just that it should be compared to the budget for 2023, maybe even as it was in 2022, how much will be taken from those resorts for 2024, or 2025. And in order to be completely credible, there should be individual ministers here, and we will be happy to confront them with our shadow ministers, and they will say, we will take so much for transport, for education so much, for culture so much, or, I don't know, for local development so much and so much. We'll argue if it makes sense, it doesn't make sense, it'll be some sort of natural conflict, but at least, Minister, we'll see where we stand. Because we don't know where we're at today. Today it's a sum of random numbers that look good on paper, you can comment on them, but to talk about savings at the level of CZK 50 billion, you might recognize that we can't just go through this by telling us, in September and October, in the responsibility of the government, we're going to give you a very detailed account of what it's going to be about. Then we really don't have to be here at all, because I've tried to outline taxes that they're pretty much with a question mark. It won't be your fault either, it'll be the way those companies stand up to it, and the fact that they're not twice motivated to pay the taxes, that's what I tried to say at the beginning. I'm done, thank you for your attention and looking forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u15	Thank you. Mr Brázdil is now registered with a factual remark. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. And Mr Brázdil has two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u16	Good afternoon, everyone. I'd have one question in my actual case. I'm based on Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura's saying and quoting his words, "We're doing this for the future of people." In the next sentence, he says: "We must make these right decisions, even if they are unpopular." I quote. If I conclude that this government doesn't actually have people's trust, or rather that people's trust is falling, if I come out of the fact that only 32 percent of people believe this government, 60 percent don't, I've found that. I would like to ask what the words are based on, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u17	You do not need to use the President if you address the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u18	Okay. But still, Zbyněk, I want to ask you, please, where do you get that these are the right decisions? [[Laughing Members from the left side of the hall.]] Who says it's the right thing to do? Because I see people around me like they say - that's wrong. Well, I'm not an economist. I just want to know where it comes from - because somebody had to say it was the right decision. That's what the Minister said, but I think he has an opinion, because he says we have to make the right decisions. Who says it's the right thing to do? I've heard a lot of things right now that it's wrong, so what makes me think it's right? Well, I certainly don't believe it, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u19	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Havránek, then Mr Munzar, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President Havlíček, through Madam President, I commended you yesterday for not deceiving, unlike other colleagues, but today I apologize because you raised me up because you called Aleš Rod and Dominik Stroukal high school students, which may seem a bit out of line to me, because by chance both of these gentlemen were my teachers in college. Not only mine and their erudition will you be convinced by your party colleague Ondřej Babka, who was my classmate, and we both attended their seminars. However, they are both first members of NERV. Aleš Rod is the Director of Research of the Centre for Economic and Market Analyses, whose many, many actually final works of this Centre here have been quoted, whether we, but also opposition politicians. Dominik Stroukal and his history as chief economist of Roger's financial group Roklen, former director of the Liberal Institute and also former head of the CEVRO Institute's Economics Department. I'm sorry, but calling them college students really seems to me to be over the edge. Thanks for the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u21	Thank you. It is now Mr Munzar's turn to make a point of fact. Vice-President Havlíček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to respond to Vice-President Havlíček, through you, but perhaps I will also partially respond to Mr Brázdil, through you. And I want to put out the very beginning that the Vice-President here said, because that is the most important message for us. And the most important message - we would do consolidation of public finances slower. Only 50 billion a year. This means that there is a difference of 150 billion overall, a recovery package over two years, and 50 billion is 100 billion. And then every year, out of the 100 billion, the state has to pay additional interest. State debt service today. I asked the Minister, the state borrows something between 4-5 percent, so every year it's 4-5 billion extra in expenses. In expenses only on interest. That means that the 4-5 billion won't be the money we need for something else if it's based on your recipe. It wouldn't be for infrastructure, for other mandatory expenses. That's one problem. The second problem is that virtually since the elections in every law we're discussing here, you're pushing only to increase expenditure. If you look not only at the state budget, but at all possible laws in the social field, the amendments from you generally only lead to an increase in expenditure. That's the other problem. And the answer for my colleague Brázdil through you. The longer we push the debt ball in front of us, the harder it will be and the bigger it will be, and the more it will cost us to pay off the loans. And it's like in your homes, if you imagine that now you're going to borrow more and more for your life, the more you're going to have to pay payments from your income, and the less you're going to have the need for a normal life in the future. [[Attention on time.]] That's why the Minister spoke of the future. That's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u23	Thank you. Vice-President Havlíček will respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u24	Yes, de facto. Just a brief response to the rapporteur. We didn't get that right. I know both gentlemen very well, even Dominik Stroukal was an assistant at the Faculty of Economics, which I have been managing as dean for many years, I know him well and I know his skills and abilities. These guys are clever, capable, and they're undoubtedly gonna have a good future. I criticized it in the context of the press conference. Instead of the Prime Minister taking the floor for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to summarize it, the Minister of Finance said the facts, so there was a two-hour show with representatives that reminded me of the students' defense at some time at a Bachelor's and Diploma degree that had nothing to do with it, because the essential things we wanted to learn, we did not know, nor did the journalists know, and that was irrelevant, which we learned. But that's different. It's definitely nothing against the two gentlemen, they're fine. And as far as you're concerned, Mr. Munzar, we're not criticizing your bill of expenses today. We're criticizing another thing - to show us what it's gonna be like. That's all. You're supposed to show, you're supposed to answer. We're not here for this, we've already ruled. You wanted to rule, you designed some packages, you said it would be 50, 54, 70, 90, 150 billion. We don't agree with taxes, we have an opinion on that and we're entitled to it. You say taxes are great, I mean tax increases, so we want you to show what you want to save it on in detail. So please, show us the structure of the savings. Nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u25	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I would just ask you, if you address your colleagues, to address them through the President. Now, Mrs Balaštíková, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Renata Oulehlová. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u26	Hello, fellow Members, I would like to respond to the rapporteur through you, Madam President. I approached several ministers, including the Prime Minister, before the holidays last year, and because I asked the Minister of Agriculture several times what kind of advisor he had, if he could tell me their education, practice, to know who was advising him, and I asked those ministers to give me the names of their advisors with their education and practice. And you know what happened? I don't have an answer to this day. In the meantime, a number of other written interventions came from me, which the answers came to on time, properly according to the law. So I didn't want to degenerate anyone like that, but until today, I didn't know who was giving these excellent ideas to the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u27	Thank you. Mrs Oulehlová will speak with a point of fact, so far the last with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u28	Hello, everyone. I would like to ask Mr Munzar through Madam President, why are you instructing us on how to behave in the home, that we are taking loans and not taking them, so why, if you are instructing us on how to behave, why does the Czech Government want to borrow 140 billion in Brussels?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u29	Thank you. I now have the priority right here, the President of Tomio Okamura is registered, and the President of the SPD Radim Fiala will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here proposals from the Fialův Government for the largest global tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic. The government will make all Czech citizens' lives more expensive and business expensive for all companies. On behalf of the SPD, I am clearly saying that we do not agree with these proposals and we will fight this with all our strength. And I would also like to make a motion on behalf of the SPD to dismiss, and in the event that the motion to dismiss fails, I am filing a motion to return the petitioner for completion. So these SPD proposals will be put to the vote here. The government's five-calices are putting out a fire in the form of the current government's poorly drawn-up state budget, if I am a specific, so poorly drawn-up state budget directed by the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS, and therefore intends to stop the catastrophic state budget development for this year with a five-calice approved deficit of CZK 295 billion. In the first half of the year, however, it was exhausted from 97 percent even after the June counting of one-off EU income and advances on corporate taxes. When I simplify and sum up, the government sends hundreds of billions to Ukrajinec or to unnecessarily overpriced foreign orders, but it does not have money for Czech citizens. On the contrary, he wants to skin Czech citizens. The SPD's movement has argued from the very beginning that this year's state budget to be drawn up by the Fialův Government is unrealistic and is based on unrealistic revenues and expenditure. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS is now presenting to the House on 732 pages the largest global tax increase in the modern history of our republic, which has an impact on 60 legal standards. Moreover, the current ODS lied to voters by promising that they would never raise any taxes. So, on the one hand, the government is disproportionately supporting Ukraine, and on the other hand, the government's five-callice is giving citizens an austerity package that will make the lives of all the citizens of the Czech Republic and all the companies in the Czech Republic more expensive to do business. Let us add, of course, that we are discussing another government bill here, and that is basically robbing current and future pensioners of pensions. Moreover, the proposal put forward with regard to the budget does not propose meaningful cuts in expenditure at all. For example, the government proposes to increase VAT, i.e. value added tax, for most types of goods and services, so the price increase will actually affect all citizens of the Czech Republic. The government proposes an increase in personal income tax. The government proposes an increase in corporate tax. In this proposal, which we are discussing here, the government is proposing an increase in property tax, excise duty, pension insurance and sickness insurance, including an increase in social insurance contributions to businessmen. The SPD's movement does not agree with these proposals, and, as I said, we will do everything we can to make sure that this set of harmful measures is not approved in the form presented, including a number of amendments to it. According to the analysis produced by the Research Institute of Labour and Social Affairs, the average Czech household will be deprived of the Purple government by this, I would say a package of CZK 7614 per year. The reality will be slightly worse, or much worse, because the analysis does not count on increasing corporate taxes and gambling, contributions to work on the agreement, cancellation of employee benefits and discounts on the student. All of this will also be abolished by the Fialův Government, which means employee benefits, student discounts, reduction of discounts on working parents, husband, wife and so on. This means that the government will also cut down working families with children. Economists therefore increase the overall estimate of the damage. For example, economist Libor Dušek announced that the government package would cost the average Čech 15 000 crowns a year, over 7000 of which would pay the state tax and lose the rest on cuts of relief and deductions. That means what the Fialův government is presenting here, so the Purple government, the Fialův government's five-calice will take the people directly out of their pockets on average CZK 15,000 a year, which, of course, is a large sum. Moreover, the Fialův government falsely boasts that the positive news for citizens is said to be a VAT reduction in food from 15 to 12 percent. However, citizens can only dream about some price cuts in practice, as food is constantly becoming more expensive because of the incompetent Fialův government, and we all see it. [[16.00 hours]] The solution would be to reduce VAT on basic foods to zero. But that's not what the Fialův government wants to do. So our citizens will continue to shop cheaply in Poland for the government. Since 2025, on the basis of the Government's proposal, for example, the current 19 per cent will increase to 21 per cent of corporate tax. [[The Member is turning around to find out that a government minister is present.]] Is there a minister here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u31	We think the Minister of Finance has taken a sanitary break, so if you could tolerate this and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u32	Sure, I just didn't see any deal with you as president, which is why I didn't know if you even knew about it or if it was your deduction. [[I know that, yes.]] Okay, of course I tolerate that. [[Thank you.]] So the solution would be to lower VAT on basic food to zero, but the Fialův government doesn't want to do that. So our citizens will continue to shop cheaply in Poland for the government. Well, since 2025, on the basis of the government's proposal, for example, the current 19 percent increase to 21 percent of corporate tax. To the state, or the Fialův government, it will pay CZK 22 billion. Well, if you raise the taxes to the companies, they'll, of course, transfer them to the expense. In other words, nothing will be cheaper and the increased tax, the 22 billion, will be paid by Czech consumers. I mean, citizens. The government argues that taxes are higher elsewhere in the world. Somewhere - that's a very desperate, stupid and mainly toothless argument. Other than that, taxes are higher and taxes are lower elsewhere. There is no VAT in dozens of other successful countries, such as the US or Japan. There is a so-called turnover tax, which is paid by the end customer and is up to 10 per cent. The advantage is clear, there are no tax deductions, so less bureaucracy, less control, zero fraud. So the customer pays less and at the same time saves both companies and the state. But you will surely argue that Brusel commands us to have complicated and absurd VAT. Yes, having an expensive and complicated system in everything really requires Brussels, or the European Union. Well, remember that when you really want to save money. Let us start by getting out of the European Union, saving on Green Deal, on energy, on taxes, on contributions from Brussels, on Brussels bureaucracy, on migrants forced by Brussels with the agreement of the Purple Government. Anyway, let's do it again - every citizen's government package loses more than CZK 15,000 a year. And we ask - what will happen with the money that the government will take from all of us? Will the state deficit be reduced? Nay, these and others of ours - I repeat our money Fialův's government will throw into the throats of American arms companies, because it plans to increase arms purchases, throw them to the Ukrainian regime and to Ukrainian economic migrants. And, of course, ideological nonprofits that promote war, censorship and other restrictions on civil liberties and the rest of non-existent democracy. And in the name of your only truth and in the name of a war that is absolutely useless. Because the war with Russia cannot be won. Everyone knows because the Rus won't back down and, worst case scenario, they'll use nuclear weapons, and that means we'll all be defeated. From the money that the Fialův government takes from our citizens, you want to finance a war that, in a better case, you won't win, in a worse case, you will bring about a nuclear apocalypse. In what interest? In the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic? No! For the sake of American arms companies, American war hawks who do not want to accept the fact that American domination of the world is over and most of the countries of the planet have turned away from Američan. There's no money? They are, the state has record revenue. Of course, the government has still not shown, transparently and truthfully, how much money is costing us Ukraine's migration and support for the Ukrainian regime. We know it's about 100 billion crowns. Support at the expense of Czech pensioners, Czech health care, Czech families and Czech children. Because for Fialův's five-calice government, Ukraine comes first. The first priority is the interests of Kiev, Brussels, Berlin and Washington. On the contrary, for the SPD, the Czech Republic and the Czech citizen, the good standard of living of our citizens, are the safe, stable Czech Republic. Today, we know that in most of Ukraine, war does not affect people's lives in any way, and that Ukrajinec who allegedly fled here before the war go home massively for vacations or drove used-cars from all over Europe to flee from there - in quotation marks - back to us for more cars. Today's conflicts of Ukrajinec with the Rom already have their dead in our country. They're just the tip of the iceberg from hell that can wait for us. Lying and censorship will never solve the problems that are here. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's package of measures can be discussed in detail, and we will find everywhere the problem, the unsystematicness and errors in expectations, and many economists and our fellow Members have already done so and will do so. But this is really fundamental in principle. In that, on the one hand, the government is wrong to take and, on the other, it is wrong to give. And let's think about what that means. Why isn't he saving up where he doesn't save money, that is, on himself, on bureaucracy, on political nonprofits, on overpriced weapons, on foreigners. And he saves money on the most vulnerable, on the elderly, on the disabled, on families with children, and on those who feed us, companies, entrepreneurs, farmers, and tradesmen. Government politicians are overreacting in terms of how consolidation, austerity, or even flagrantly lying about being anti-inflationary is a package of measures. But none of this is true. The government package, by making life more expensive for our citizens at all levels, both private and business, is explicitly upside-down. We talked about savings. They don't save where they should be. The government will save on needy people just so that they can throw money away elsewhere. So austerity is a contradiction. It's not true what the Fialův government says here. Of course, these misguided and harmful measures can never consolidate public finances, and no one, not even the government, is expecting it. The current government has resigned to addressing inflation as well as further huge debt to the Republic, with the applause of its politicians and some media. Instead, it increases further and quietly the cost of the state budget. It is highly likely that the state budget deficit will be in hundreds of billions next year, at least CZK 200 billion. So very likely, as we see it, a deficit of CZK 1 trillion will rise under the rule of the Fialův Government, and so, as we know, under the Fialův Government, it has exceeded the state debt of that magical limit of CZK 3 trillion. These are astronomical debts that the Purple government is cutting off. And these debts will be cut off by the Czech Republic, Czech citizens for several decades, what you have done here in a year and a half. It's unbelievable. No one is arguing that we need a balanced budget, that we need to save money. In this we are in agreement and we differ only in where to save. According to the Supreme Audit Office, the SAO, the state is throwing away hundreds of billions of crowns for unnecessary projects, wasting where you look. The Ministry is like a leaky colander, where a million, ten million don't matter. No one solves millions for Brussels fanatics, billions for totally unnecessary American fighters. And on the other hand, you're shaking at every hundred crown that a grandmother is supposed to get. I'm gonna stop by for a little while to find out the Supreme Audit Office that the government isn't doing anything about. The Supreme Audit Office, and I spoke about it yesterday, published the results of its investigation for the period 2014 to 2022, where subsidies - subsidies from the EU - were paid out of CZK 750 billion. But these are not some subsidies that the European Union would give us, because, as we know, the European Union is in debt up to its ears, not even bonds are enough anymore, and everything is in debt. That's our money. [[16.10 hours]] And he owes the Czech Republic for the bonds, as we know. That's it. And the Supreme Audit Office stated that I would say that the projects on which the subsidies were granted had been implemented, that the projects had, on average, achieved only 10%. You hear well, not eighty percent, not fifty percent, ten percent. So this is how money is thrown out in the Czech Republic. So don't lie anymore that you give the European Union subsidies, that it is something positive. We're paying the price really hard. The Czech Republic and our citizens pay hard for all this. It's completely wasted money, that if we had kept the 10% - and I said it here yesterday - in the Czech Republic, it would have been a lot cheaper for us than the membership of the European Union. [[With laughter.]] It's no advantage. It's stolen the money, it's useless, and the government isn't watching at all. Of course, there were other governments before, not just the current government. Of course, not only current governments but also existing governments are responsible for this. Why am I talking about this? Because you can see that hundreds of billions are being thrown here, hundreds of billions are being relentlessly spent, and the money is actually available. That means 50 to 100 billion in Ukrainians, hundreds of billions of them are being wasted here. I was just talking about finding the Supreme Audit Office. Billions go to political nonprofit organizations, completely nonsense simply. Of course, we support nonprofit organizations that take care of seniors, needy people, old people and so on, but not political nonprofit organizations with a political agenda. These are those who promote genders, multiculties, promote the European Union, even campaign against those who disagree with the political European Union. That's the non-profit organization of European values, isn't it? That's just my opinion on it. And that's just how it is, this is how it's run. By the way, the education inclusion of $5 billion. Here alone, we'd save $5 billion from inclusion, go back to special education. Once again, the European Union project. Both the disabled children's parents criticize it and the healthy children's parents, and the teachers criticize it, all of them. It is simply the neo-Marxist European Union for the applause of all existing governments. The SPD wasn't there, we're against it. So, of course, you're just sucking the budget out of these types of projects. Not to mention the EU subsidies, as they are called. These are the lookout towers in the valley of South Moravia and so on, from which logically there is nowhere to see and so on, overpriced benches, anything possible. That means of course - but that's the report from the Supreme Audit Office, which I was talking about here. This means you, instead of really, really managing properly, are unable to manage the state and properly manage and proceed to the simplest and most terrible thing that you can do to increase total taxes on all citizens and companies in the Czech Republic and scrape them off even more. Only because of your incompetence. Of course, we cannot agree with this policy at all. Of course, I will also stress the foreign aid. Yes, we are in favour of helping the needy, but adequately and so that, of course, Czech citizens do not get into poverty, so that Czech citizens have a quality standard of living, and that does not occur here under the Fialův Government. These are all the problems of your expensive package that will rob citizens, entrepreneurs and businesses of billions. The word robs them because you don't need the money for the benefit of this country, but for the benefit of other people's interests, and you just don't have the right. No one ever gave you a mandate to do that. And here I'll say again that it was ODS that said it before the election - and even recently said it, recently, a few weeks ago on Nova television that Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS repeated it, that you would not increase taxes. Only today you've increased the excise duty on diesel. You cost everything. You're raising taxes. And the Prime Minister said a few weeks ago on TV Nova, in an interview with the presenter Koranteng, on his repeated question that you wouldn't raise taxes. And he even specified that you would not raise taxes to businessmen, you would not raise taxes to citizens and so on. He's just lying live. He's lying live. The combined tax quota, the collection is clearly an increase in taxes by tens of billions of crowns only in the first year by tens of billions for the next year, because we've heard it here, even from the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura at the press conference you were doing about a month, month and a half ago when you admitted everything. I don't understand how we can have a prime minister who lies like that, lies to people on the air. But also the citizens and they write it to me a lot of people, and I'm already getting the impression that he even believes his lies in my opinion, he suggested it, that's self-confidence. He says something himself, he believes it himself, and then he parrots it. He's doing some kind of autohypnosis, okay? But that's a diagnosis. And a man like that can't lead our country. The whole Republic knows you're raising taxes, and he's telling us you're not, and he's repeating it several times in a row. This is an incredible case. I'm sorry to have to say this. Citizens see it. I remember the Minister of Finance here, Zbyněk Stanjura, who sits here on my right, you just said you wouldn't raise your property tax. It's all over the articles. I mean, it's black and white in articles, just click on Google, any citizen can click now, because you, Minister, just recently said you wouldn't increase your property tax. And now you're increasing it. Don't be mad at me, but when you're an adult, middle-aged, so violently change your mind in a few weeks, it's either that you're completely incompetent or you don't know which one's beating or you're knowingly lying. Because it's not normal to do a 180-degree turn like that. I understand, for example, when someone's a little kid and they're forming opinions, but it's not possible to say that. If you could at least admit it from the beginning, that's my point. Say what you want. That's just your political responsibility. And we're here in opposition now, or we're in opposition, and our legitimate right, of course, is to express ourselves and do this opponent thing. But if you could at least tell the truth from the beginning. If only you'd told the truth before the election. You guys were saying before the election, and I was in those TV debates with ODS President Petr Fiala, we were all standing there in a number of parliamentary party chairmen, and he said repeatedly that you had a program, your ODS and that coalition of the SPOLU, that you would not increase taxes. At the same time, you claimed b, where you said you were fully prepared to rule. That you have everything ready. That you are competent to rule. That means you knew very well, and since you've been here in the House for several years, even the Minister, the current Minister of Finance Stanjura, so you know very well, and you've been the Minister of Transport in the past, you know very well what the state budget is, whether positive or negative, is in which situation I don't want to say it now, of course it's in negative, so in what situation it is. So you knew very well that you promised people a lie before the election that you lied to people. That you weren't ready and you knew you'd want to raise taxes. So, actually, your government is illegitimate from this point of view. Because you got to power by cheating. Because if you said straight before the election that you were going to raise taxes and that you weren't ready to rule and that you didn't have anything prepared and that you would then pull it out of your hat gradually and constantly contradict each other, then of course you couldn't have this election result. If you were to say, frankly, that you were going to increase your tax tradesmen, typically ODS, if we stopped at the ODS, if you were to admit straight before the election, that you would actually make business more expensive, that you would increase their taxes, then you would just have a proven - I'm sure - that your electoral result would be lower. [[16.20 hours]] If your coalition said that you were going to raise taxes the way you're raising taxes now, and it's not because of Ukraine, that's what Prime Minister Fiala's always saying, it's not that, the budget is in such a mess, after your short reign, that of course, you blew it up to that increase to 2% of GDP to arming, we just can't do it. We are in favour of the modern army, we are in favour of modernizing the army, but of course we must also have it. On the other hand, Gripens were offered to modernize here, the Švéd offered it, but you promised the Američan. The most expensive fighters will be bought. And so I could continue. That means you made a promise to the mountain downstairs, and this is the problem. So if you say that before the election, in fact, your government isn't even here today. And that's the problem. So I'm about to conclude, the SPD to your package of thefts, it has a nickname from our point of view, it definitely doesn't. And once again, I repeat my proposal that the SPD proposes - I submit this proposal on behalf of the SPD - to reject, that will be voted on. And if our motion to dismiss doesn't pass, I suggest that this bill of government be returned to the petitioner, i.e. The Ministry of Finance, Minister Stanjur, for work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u33	Thank you. Mr Hayato Okamura will now speak with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u34	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, ministers, Madam President, I just want to respond briefly to a small part of my previous speaker, President, my brother Tomio - through Madam President - who said that the European Union is doing us more harm today by putting more money in it than we are getting from it, that it simply does not pay off financially. Here I just want to remind, especially in the face of this very complicated international security situation, that, despite all the layers that have layered in almost 80 years of history, the European Union is primarily a peaceful project, it is the miracle of the peaceful coexistence of European nations, especially, say, Němec and Francouz, nations that have repeatedly waged devastating wars in previous history. The generation that still experienced bombed cities during World War II has already left or almost left. Historical memory is fading, but let us not forget that it is a peace project where it is not the first priority of how much money from the European Union is not the European Union against our country, but we are part of the family, we will get, but the point is that in a historically unique way we can live in Europe in a peace of democratic states and nations that live together in peace. And as for our citizens and their well-being, well-being, I would like to remind you that at present, of course, we are paying a higher price for their safety than under normal circumstances. It's really because of the Kremlin aggression against Ukraine. The security, the defensive stuff, they just cost some money, they cost some victims. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u35	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková will now make a point of fact. So far, as a final point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr colleague, through Madam President, the European Union may have been a peaceful project at the very beginning. She completely deviated, today it's a totalitarian project led by a bunch of fools. And your coalition is listening to her. Look at the Green Deal. Maybe it'll turn on when this place is full of shit. It's gonna cost us a lot more than your "slapping" money and subsidizing the war in Ukraine right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u37	Thank you, Madame. Nevertheless, I would like to call you to order, and I would ask you to use milder terms that correspond to the fact that we are in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. He's getting off now... I see that Mr Hayato Okamura will respond with a factual remark. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u38	Dear colleagues, many of us have grandparents who have yet to experience World War II, experienced the Nazi and then the communist dictatorship. And it was the great dream of all conscientious people to live in the situation we are living in today, when our country is a member state of both NATO and the European Union. Our international security has never been ensured in the way it is at present. I'm calling to my senses. I think it is a good thing in this view that we are members of the European Union and we agree on this in fact in the vast majority of Members and Members across the parties, including a large part of the current opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Karla Maříková will now respond to the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr colleague, through Madam President, my family has also been through World War II, even some of my relatives have been gassed in the gas chamber. So I think you stepped really wrong. On the contrary, I think my family can compare it to what's happening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u41	Thank you. I see that Mr Hayato Okamura will still respond with a factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u42	Dear colleagues, it is those who have suffered, whose loved ones have died, who value peace and security, that is the situation in which we can live today, whose foundation and frame is the membership of our country, both in the European Union and in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u43	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. President Schillerová will now speak with priority rights. President Babiš will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have prepared my speech - I have a bit of it as I have thought it through - to the tax package, because for me it is a tax package where I will defend it, but as you have spoken, I have been thinking about other contexts, so I will simply complement it differently. To deal with the material that the government of Petr Fiala wrongly identifies as a consolidation package, even though the Minister sits here in his opinion that it is a tax package, it will be an extremely challenging task. Not only because it intends to increase taxes in the country's modern history, but I draw CZK 73 billion a year from the Ministry of Finance's material, and that the tax package, according to independent economic authorities, will lead to a reduction in economic growth by a percentage point. [[16.30 hours]] It is also unfortunately because the package is extremely technically and legally available. After the parody of the external commentary procedure, which lasted ridiculous five days, there remained an incredible 229 comments, many of which were fundamental. These are therefore absolutely fundamental comments - if you look at the basis - of the central authorities of the state administration, i.e. the various ministries themselves, about the comments of the regions, associations, about the contradictions made by employers' representatives and employees. Indeed, again, according to the official commentary of the Minister and Prime Minister Michal Šalomoun, the government has abused the extremely shortened deadlines for commentary proceedings on the package to include in it what is not at all related to savings, such as fundamental changes in the property tax concept or additional administration for contractors and their employers. Finally, of course, there is also a completely unrelated comprehensive regulation of gambling, namely the Gaming Act, which is dedicated to 82 pages in the material, while allegedly cutting subsidies for 54.4 billion after two months of the pompous press conference is dedicated seven lines in the annex to the Ministry of Finance's press release. I'm not questioning that it wasn't supposed to be here, that's for sure. All I'm saying is that it was on seven lines in the annex to the Ministry of Finance press release. So these are things I don't understand at all, I don't understand. Yes, we prepared three years of ex post RIA for the Act on Gambling at the Ministry of Finance, the purpose of which was to evaluate the legislation - on which we worked, presented it, it was simply a very demanding job - and on that basis to adopt a new legislation in accordance with the ex post RIA evaluation. But not this way. I imagined it would go through a proper reminder procedure and just independently - it doesn't belong here in the tax package - and that we'd just be all experts, experts, dedicated to it, because right here, something very important could be overlooked. This brings us to the absolutely fundamental problem that the YES movement has with this package. Although - and you asked, you asked the rhetorical question, I asked myself the same question, so I happen to have it here - we support the government's declared efforts to reduce the state budget deficit, we fundamentally disagree with the submitted implementation, which is nothing more than a set of amendments to tax laws constantly increasing the tax burden of Czech households by tens of thousands of crowns a year. As the Ministry of Finance itself states in the analysis of RIA, the package will probably also cause recession, unemployment growth, negative social impacts and loss of credibility of the Czech Republic. As Chairman of the ANO Group of Parliament, and at the same time Vice-President of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies and the Shadow Minister of Finance, I appeal to the Government to return to its programming declaration when saving on the expenditure side of the budget is the dominant source of fiscal effort. In the event that the government has fulfilled its commitment - and now a few figures - and repeated promises about the consolidation ratio one to two in favour of the spending party, it should be prepared to save CZK 146 billion on the expenditure side of the budget, given the intention to increase taxes by CZK 73 billion. Such a consolidation pace can undoubtedly be considered to be quite sufficient. In our opinion, the tax package should therefore be limited to increasing excise duty on alcohol - in turn, I answer one of your rhetorical questions - tobacco, gambling taxes, abolishing tax exemptions of a non-social nature. The planned increase in corporate taxes without communication with the business sector, small medium-sized enterprises, and the considerable reduction in GDP growth during the technical recession and the uncertain economic outlook will certainly have a negative impact on the overall economic situation in the country. As a result, the tax package will disrupt stability, the predictability of the tax environment, damage business and make the population's living standards worse. I, like an elderly person who has been in finance for almost my entire professional life, fundamentally doubt the possibility of the package achieving the desired goals. On the contrary, I fully agree with the above mentioned regulatory costs, which are identified directly by the petitioner himself, which means the Ministry of Finance. In view of the economic harmfulness of most of the 63 laws, the infringement of legislative practices, the lack of the length of the commentary procedure preventing serious analysis by comment points, it is still clearly the most appropriate option to reject the package at first reading and consolidate public finances by dominant measures on the expenditure side of the budget, combined with the increase in excise duty on tobacco, alcohol, gambling tax, proper taxation of global companies and the abolition of tax exemptions of non-social nature. In the longer term, it will contribute to consolidation of public finances by improving the collection of existing taxes, the fight against tax evasion and fraud, as well as supporting entrepreneurship, investment in innovation and education. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Czech Republic is probably the only government in the developed world, which, instead of the fundamental objectives of economic policy, is economic growth, prosperity of companies, the living standard of the population, blindly follows the dull Excel tables of its Minister of Finance. In the second half of last year, the Czech Republic belonged to only three OECD countries that fell into recession and our economy is still stagnating. Unlike other countries, we have not yet returned to the prepandemic GDP level. In this situation, the package presented for our economy is a poisonous cocktail. Instead of focusing on drawing European funds from the end and the new programming period, where one trillion crowns are allocated to the Czech Republic thanks to our last government, instead of collecting taxes properly, where we missed about CZK 40 billion only this year, it intends to increase taxes dramatically. Moreover, this is at a time that is extremely inappropriate for this. Perhaps I need not remind you that only in food we have inflation of 25 percent, that we are facing the greatest decline in real wages from OECD countries, that we are in a technical recession and the current steps of the government will decide whether or not the Czech Republic will repeat the nečasovský-kalousovský scenario of unnecessary asphyxiation of the national economy. The truth is that the impact of this package on the family with two children in kindergarten is about CZK 90,000. [[Members of the ODS are smiling.]] Well, that's not funny. It's just a calculation where one is an employee, one is a businessman, they have two children in kindergarten. It's just the impact of your entire package. A separate chapter is the VAT changes. I was very interested in the fact that basically the whole VAT change will essentially be fiscally negative for the state budget in the finals. So you're actually going to increase a whole range of items from a 10% rate to either 12 or 21 percent, so it's not going to bring any positive effect at all. In the finals, you are making adjustments to food - yes, I admit that we have one of the highest rates for food - from 15 to 12 percent, which will present a decline for the state budget of ą13 billion. [[16.40 hours]] And you yourself admitted in your speech how I made notes that whether it would affect the price of food is rather a debate or that the numbers are more academic. Because I don't believe it, and it shows very close time, now we can argue about it, but the experience is actually a long time ago, that if those taxes go down like that, it's essentially not going to have an impact on the thousands, hundreds of thousands of items that are going to be involved. Nor can it be checked specifically, so I personally take the view that citizens will not feel it. The state budget loses money, and it stays in the pockets of those who don't need it at all, and that's the chains. Especially in the margins of strings. That's why I never wanted to go that way either. But those items that you increase, VAT on medications, aqueous, coiled, heat, a number of other items, so they really feel everyone. Baby feeding, there's definitely gonna be a debate about baby water, my colleagues are going to do it. Literally liquidation is simply for pubs, restaurants, especially in the countryside, for which the dominant source of turnover is the sale of brewed beer, where you pick it up from 10 to 21 percent. That's why we, as part of the food service, reduced the VAT because of course part of the restaurant was once, the reason was EET, but the main part was covid because they were affected in an incredible way, in an incredible way for the covid, even though we tried to compensate them for part of the losses. It'll be vanquishing for them. We've been holding a debate here, a round table, they've had very hard numbers from the Touchbook, and they said that they're just really going to move into the gray zone, which means they're going to move back into the garage, because it's not just Prague. Or he'll just quit. 'Cause there's a few pogroms out there that just can't stand it. Well, then you were talking about some of the items that I was quick to take notes on. You were talking about air gasoline. I know it's harmonised, of course, but it needs to be fought for. This debate at European Union level has been going on for a long time. We could have used the Presidency we had, we could have had it long ago. Consumer tax. A four-year plan. Of course, we don't have a problem with that. Already in our government, you have remarked fairly, this has been implemented. Warm tobacco. It's time to pick it up. Of course, of course. On the committees, we will still be technically debating whether the way it is set is sufficient. So is gambling. Even with this gambling, we will debate and look at profitability, and we will discuss it with experts on committees, I suppose, who will accompany you, whether or not this is enough. Changes and you've talked about it here will be extremely painful for families with children who will end up abolishing the kindergarten, limiting the discount on the other spouse, even if you finally modified it. End of discount for extra earning student, increase VAT on services, repairs, running of households, public transport, but also for example a significant increase in motorway stamps from 1,500 to 2 400. You were talking about kindergarten, you said you had an analysis, that they're using it at least. I don't know who did the analysis, whether it was discussed with a non-profit sector or not. Because that kindergarten thing I think was introduced, I guess, under Sobotkův's government, if I'm not mistaken, and it was introduced as an incentive factor for mommy mostly, but of course I don't want to touch daddies in any way so that the parent can get back to work. To simply, if he gets a job in this preschool facility, in kindergarten, he will apply - and then the person who goes to work, logically earns so much, pays taxes, pays social, pays health. So it's coming back to the state. I don't really understand structurally affected regions, I don't know if it can be ripped out like this. If this is not also due to the fact that these regions have a problem with employment and so on. I don't think it's possible to judge it in isolation. Anyway, I think that the impact, the positive impact on its abolition, on public budgets, would be about 100,000, minus all positive effects on the labour market and social systems. This is the amount that the Ministry of Finance would collect in two to three days of EET operation. Well, canceling a student discount-- that's what I'm thinking, if you're serious. I was already shocked when I heard your public statement, when you were expressing yourself in public space, that if the student made around, I think you said 206,000 a year, which is about 17,000 a month, then actually by applying a discount system, deductible items, there's no tax. And you said that if he makes more money, he either doesn't study enough, or he's just using the system. Well, I put that statement on my social media where I commented on it. It's got about 1.1 million views. It's my most successful post in the last year, which I don't want to say here to brag about, no way. I'm more upset about this, given the comments they're writing to me, and I'm really wondering, is it worth the 300,000 that it's gonna bring to the state budget? I mean, the students, I talk to them, they come to my office, they text me. Of course, the contribution caused a huge debate. A whole bunch of them are working to make a living at that school. I'm not saying you have a stowaway everywhere. In every system. I'm an old finance guy. But to make a living at that school, to relieve her families, because thousands of students can't be supported by their families. Often they are students from economically weaker families or students who no longer have parents. They're working hard on their future. And they're still studying in that job. So this is what I think that your statement was very unhappy and I think from the perspective of the future of these people - a group of young people here this morning demonstrated before the House and on the subject of cheaper rental housing. That they weren't able to secure a place to live. They're not. Not even in the vicinity in Prague. And, of course, the housing is going to get expensive. They realize that if you raise the water, the flow, the heat, it's all going to be, the fare, the public transport, it's just going to cost them everything. For example, when we were introducing a discount on fare for students and seniors, then when we were doing some kind of impact study on this instrument, of course, we didn't see it as an impact, we didn't see that it had a certain fiscal impact on the state budget, but it also had socio-economic impacts. Many of these students may have stopped living in Prague and started commuting from some immediate distance because they paid off the discounted fare compared to expensive housing. And the biggest hit, I did this survey on my Twitter account, where I picked out four items, and I let them vote the most annoying. And it clearly won a double real estate tax. That's what won. That's what pisses people off the most. Then I saw it in some official polls as one of the items that pisses them off, but it worked for me, too. And there weren't so many of them who voted. Okay, you said it was low, you had a real estate tax comparison here within the European Union. Well, look at the comparisons in the OECD countries, too. Look at the comparisons, we had a lot of debates here when I was Secretary of Finance, comparing the overall tax mix. And look at the structure of our own housing. In our country, 80 percent of people live in their own, because it's a tradition. People want to live in their own. So we don't just live with the rich or those who are better economically. For example, the structure of ownership housing in Germany is much smaller. There is still a similar structure in Slovakia, but it is about 70 percent. So it's gonna fall on people who have saved their lives to live in their own, so that once they're retired, they don't have to look for or pay for expensive rentals. Well, that's what's gonna happen to them. I'm not just talking about families with kids or anything. So I don't think it's a good time. Try asking a family who lives in a three-bedroom apartment in Prague 3, which would pay CZK 8,000 a year after double tax. I know a family like that. [[16.50 hours]] We must realise that if we go to this debate and allow such high taxes to be paid from year to year by tens of thousands of households across the Czech Republic, it is, of course, a huge problem for them in the context of all the problems that the Czech Republic, and not just her, is going through. But I'm not gonna blame you here for abolishing real estate tax on ponds, that's just a marginality that I don't care about at all, I understand the reasons that management costs a lot more than that tax return. I don't care. But I don't care if it falls on those people. Now tell me, if they're actually... the energy's already hitting them, a whole bunch of things, now they're gonna get hit by taxes, so they're gonna sell their housing? The mortgage... How many young families have written to me that they will essentially have to sell the apartment because they are unable to finance increased interest after the end of the marker. If someone, if a young family pays a 15,000 mortgage and now after the end of the marker, it will rise to 30,000 due to high interest, they will not be able to breathe. You just can't handle it. So what are they supposed to do? Are they supposed to sell the apartment and go into some kind of rent? And what's he gonna pay for it? I mean, the rents are just catastrophic - their heights. And I'm not just talking about Prague, I'm having fun, I'm from Brno, but I'm sure... The minister isn't here right now, but he's from Opava, so there's definitely not gonna be any sunshine and so on. So I think this is also a huge problem and there was no debate. And here at all, I'm sure my honored colleagues will be talking about it, not to mention that he's actually going to keep the return, which is a big... Against this now rebels the Union of Towns and Communities, rebelling against it by the mayors, because, of course, they will not be able to correct this tax in any way after that. And again - why? This has always been a 100% return to the community. And they know best how to spend there with this yield. But that's gonna be a different subject, which I'm sure we'll be dealing with. Introduction of sickness insurance for employees? Even this measure is nothing more than a refined attempt to get CZK 13 billion a year from people's wallets into the state budget. And it's not going to help the state budget any more significantly, because the Treasury is letting the same amount of money run away every year in unconfessed sales of traders and the related black employment. And those who do not work black and white will pay the highest contributions from all OECD countries as a result of this measure, because we already belong first together with the Slovák today. On average, family budgets will lose CZK 500 a month, which will further deepen the record decline in real wages in the Czech Republic. And I could go on like this. Traders - a 100% increase in social insurance, legal entities from small eseróček to large two percentage points. And so I could go on. There is simply no population in this country that is not affected by this package. That means it's 73 billion, and that's the Ministry of Finance's calculations, and I don't think they're gonna pick it out after all, 73 billion that they're gonna pull out of the pockets of Czech households, citizens of our nation and our companies. And they're not gonna pick it out in the finals because part of that money is gonna spill into the gray economy. Of course, I still wanted to talk about... - The minister isn't here right now - I wanted to talk about how he talked about the budget here, and about how we were haunted here, and how great everything is now, and how sunny it is. I'll keep it when it's here, because I did a little yesterday after I was contacted by a journalist here who probably has only access, editor of the List, the only one who has access to these numbers, unlike me, the Vice-President of the Budget Committee and the members of the Budget Committee, so I'll wait for the Minister to return, and then I'll come forward one more time and tell him again, as I see with the watered sun and the state budget. Thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u45	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. He apologizes to Jiří Hájek from 17 o'clock for family reasons and Minister Stanjura apologizes from 16.50 to 17.10 and is represented by one of the ministers who is present, and there is a mandate for this. So just to be clear, the Minister will be back in a short while. President Andrej Babiš is next with priority rights and then Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. [[President Schiller is still reporting to be quick, just for a minute.]] There are other priority rights here, Madam President. In fact, you could perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u46	Madam Vice-President, I understand, I understand, and I am friendly myself, but we are probably discussing a single important law here, which is important for you, not for us, which you will push through in this parliamentary term with the reduction of pensioners' valorisation, there will certainly be nothing else going on. So I think his promoter should sit here and defend and listen and comment on what we're saying. So I don't know if you're saying it's short, so I don't want to make it any harder, did you say what, 15 minutes, Mr. Secretary? [[President: Until 17.10.]] Until 17.10. Well, I'm taking a break until 5:10 p.m. to wait for the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u47	Okay. The ANO Movement Club is taking a break until 17.10. I'm declaring a recess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for the break has expired, or the interruption of the meeting, and we will continue with the general debate. We are discussing the House Press 488 Government Bill amending some laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets. There are three priority rights or applications. First President Andrej Babiš, Mrs Klára Dostálová, Mr Radim Fiala. Mr. Andrej Babiš will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u49	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens. I spoke here yesterday for an hour and six minutes, I didn't have a speech, I don't have a speech today either. Yesterday, I was talking numbers, dates, names, and everything I've been through and what I remember well. As you know, I don't have those structured speeches. I wanted to thank the Minister of Finance for the interpretation, because tonight I'm just gonna comment on his speech. Point by point. I've been taking notes, I've finally learned something, I haven't been able to read all these things very often, because I don't think we need any of what you're presenting. We just don't need it. And Mrs. Schillerová was talking about the result -- zero zero nothing. In that speech mainly what was missing - you did not use these words: income, income from the European Union, investment at all, because investment is GDP growth and investment is, of course, revenue from the budget. I was the Minister of Finance. Sobotka fired me in May 2017. And I was very amused by the bonds the Minister spoke of, those were Kalouskův's bonds, untaxed. Untaxed, for which everyone here voted. And then I got fired. But it doesn't matter. So let's get back to the show. Firstly, the Minister says: we need to consolidate public finances. - Yes, I agree, Minister. If our finances are in good shape? Well, that's a question and a debate. We, when we finished in December 2021, were in very good shape. And we had the sixth lowest debt in the European Union. You guys have already dropped by two places in those 572 days. Well, that's a question of course. I don't want to develop here, when the states will pay their debts and how it is, but when we talk about the finances, I'm gonna get to it because you started, and you were actually trying really nicely to convince here how it works for you about the public sector debt, but you were wrong, Minister. I have a transcript of your performance here, and you said that the public sector debt was 5.1 percent of GDP. No. The balance of public sector management you were going to say maybe... [[Minister Stanjura off the microphone.]] Yeah, yeah, I get it, I get it, I get it, I get it. So what's our finances? I think we're in good shape. And you're also holding that percentage against GDP. And of course that's always the game. You're the Minister of Finance, I was the Minister of Finance, Mrs Schillerová was the Minister of Finance, and based on how you interpret the debt, whether you speak as a percentage of GDP, as Eurostat and everyone do, or are you talking about absolute debt... And I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. So I think our finances are in good shape, I repeat, we ended up as the sixth least indebted country. And Mrs Schillerová, as former Finance Minister, had the consolidation of our finances until 2025. We have put this forward, and we are now presenting it as opposition - without raising taxes. No tax increases. Without taking people's money. But you actually started with your idea, and right now -- if it's in the media, that the YES movement is mainly chosen by retired people, I don't think so, but I think so -- you immediately attacked retired people, right away tax discount and immediately against retired people. You didn't even know what was going to happen. So I think that our finances are in good shape, that there is no need to do anything, that the proposal really is completely useless, that you would be able to do it if you were involved in income, investment, European money. I don't know if you, as Treasury Secretary... If the Prime Minister is testing you for how much you put forward for corporate subsidies and how much you cashed out of Europe? What's the difference? I've always asked that question, and the ministers have always had the task of watching this. 'Cause of course it's not normal that we pay ahead, then we charge Evropa, that it should be, that we pay first, then we pay later. But that's how it's established. So your manipulation is that you listed the number here... [[He's looking in the materials. The minister says off the microphone.]] Yes, I'm looking for the chart now. And of course you're right, but you're not telling B. You know where B is. You don't really have to do anything. Your GDP is rising. And that's why your number actually went down. And why is your GDP going up? Well, because you just don't do anything about inflation, it suits you. And because of inflation, you just pretend to have a good result. But you don't have a good one. Because you're actually saying - yes, debt, you're wrong, so the balance of public sector management is 5.1 %, and you said 2021, right, yes. And in 2022, it went down to 3.6. But you know that it fell because the GDP increase between 2021 and 2022 was 686 billion. So you don't really have to do anything. You're happy that you're charging people for inflation, your GDP is rising because of inflation, and you're actually showing this result that you're optically saying is cool. Well, I'm saying, of course, you interpret it well, but that's not your fault. That's not your fault at all. This is due to the fact that GDP is just rising because you don't want to do anything about inflation. [[17.20 hours]] And, of course, that debt... and we ended up in 2021, the debt of the government sector was only 42 percent, less than in 2013, when you finished, and the parameter that you're talking about was 5.1 and that you reduced it to -3.6, so I'll just repeat it to you, in our government, 2017, it was +1.5; 2018 it was +0.9; 2019 it was +0.3. So we've always been on the plus side, 2021, you're going to say you inherited it from us, I understand. And I'm glad you finally said that we gave the huge money to covid. It's beautiful that you presented it like that, but of course it's not a positive parameter, and it's not your credit. And then you said fugitives and war. I've asked the Prime Minister repeatedly - I don't know, I didn't ask you, but I talked about you finally saying how much the war cost or how much it costs. And that's nothing against the Ukrajinec, I'm just saying that the YES movement was the only one that gave 10 million to refugees from Ukraine and humanitarian aid, and I personally contributed, so it's just so that we can compare it, so have an economist... or people who understand the finances because they're working on how much it cost you. And as far as I know, refugees cost about 40 billion, well, 45 billion, now the new number is that the guns were... I don't know how many, so it was just a comparison of those numbers. You always argued that it had a huge impact. Well, it doesn't have a huge impact. We had a fall in GDP in 2020 of 82 billion. When I compare 2019 to 2020, it was -82 billion, okay? And that was -5.5 percent of GDP, that's a real slump, okay? You've never had a fall in GDP, you always have growth. You always have growth, and we've given 370 billion to companies, employees, all of us to maintain employment. So we put out 450 for Covido, and you for Ukraine in my opinion... I, when I spoke to Mrs. Černochová, said 10 billion guns, now there are other weapons, escaped... I don't know if it's sixty, seventy, well, in any case, there's no reason to make excuses. A Řecko script? Yes, I'm glad you said that. But why was the Prime Minister still here haunting us with bankruptcy, when he was still talking about bankruptcy, which, of course, is completely nonsense, but you said today that we were not in danger of the Greek script, and I agree with that and I'm totally fine with it. And of course, the point is now... and then you started talking about running a government debt. That's a great topic, and I love that, because when I was the finance minister - yes and you can say that it wasn't our credit, but I think it was our credit, because even that we had a clear agenda, that we were doing it, that we were doing everything for people and that we were in good shape, it was resolute that when I was the finance minister, we had borrowed money at negative interest. We borrowed 15 percent of the government's debt, and we still received money for being loaned to us, which is incredible, but that's just how the financial markets work. And the government debt service, you're scaring the shit out of it. Please, the boss of the... what it's like... the budget board, the Mr. Hampl, who's shaking in your place - before the election, he told us he'd be 100... 100 billion that he would be, 100 billion. And let me remind you, Minister - do you know how much government debt was in 2013 when you finished? About 50.56 - right, you see. And I pushed it down to 39,43, 2017, we ended up at 42 billion, last year you correctly said 50, here's 49,46... well, why is that? I mean, you said you were gonna fix your finances, and everything's gonna be great, so I don't understand the predictions - I'm not questioning it, maybe they've calculated yours well - but I'm just saying, even for the covideo, and for the Covido 2020, 2021, we've kept it. So it's not an argument that you're haunting it now. Then you criticized former Minister Schillerová for the anti-inflationary bonds. Well, for God's sake, pay for it. Greetings to the old man in Ostrava who... On my recommendation, he bought one, CZK 100,000, and people got the 12 billion interest, Minister, people! [[Strongly.]] What about the church restitution, Minister? Eight billion inflation clause? This is where the Němcová approved it fraudulently at midnight. You gave 165 billion to the churches. It was rigged, it was overpriced, and the inflationary clause, it's okay with you, the eight billion you're giving back to the churches? Why? Why? Why are you talking about people where Schillerová gave them -- yes, they bought it, they did well -- and nobody knew there was going to be such inflation, so why are you criticizing it? You guys got 12 billion, you're hearing good - thanks to the YES movement and the Minister thinking about people. And otherwise it would be best if, of course, state bonds were owned by citizens of the Czech Republic and they felt that they owned the Czech Republic... and then maybe... I don't know, they could vote in bond elections - but that's an attempt to joke - especially so that journalists wouldn't write it again that I got carried away yesterday. But I didn't get carried away. You know that if I got carried away, it would look different. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Minister, 12 billion Schillerová gave the people, and that's right. I don't know what the maturity of those bonds is, but everyone who bought it has it, and that's fine. Each side differently - well, I understand, it's like - I must say, it's probably difficult for the Prime Minister. I don't understand why you pirát keep talking about us the way we ruled. Have you forgotten how we ruled? We were a minority government. We were always being blackmailed. You guys still won't let us save people from the covid. The Communists still wanted something, they wanted it, yes, so we didn't. Of course, if we had a majority, we'd be able to do a lot more than that. And I understand that when you say, if you were actually saying, if I wasn't in a coalition with the pirát, maybe I wouldn't be raising taxes. Or are you still right? I don't know how you're doing in there right now. So you talk different from each side. I understand. Even the package, TOP 09 dug up the books. Books - zero. So I don't know who else buys those books, probably older generations like me, but most people listen to audio. And every single thing. I know pirát like the extreme left - so I don't know how you have it all there, and you still call it a recovery package. So I understand, your... I don't know, if only the ODS could handle, of course, what would happen and what would it be like, if it would - but you guys would always raise taxes when you were in government, so I don't know what would change. And you're talking about reducing operating expenses and savings on the side of the state. Savings. The founder of your B - and you remember how Topol and Kalda founded the TOP 09 and succeeded? Here's his guy for dirty work, so he's criticizing you today. [[To the right.]] No, the one behind you. Where he sits. The one who understands agriculture. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u50	I beg you to address yourself only through the microphone. [[- But I don't know Mr...]] I understand, but... [[But I don't know his name. I don't know his name.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u51	But I didn't call anyone. So the founder of the TOP 09 actually says you're supposed to cancel the three ministers, that's unnecessary, isn't it? [[unintelligible]] Well, that would be saving, wouldn't it? Well, I'm sure it would be a savings. I recommended to the Prime Minister that he immediately release 100 people at the Office of the Government to stop investing in IT... forbid investment in IT, do not invest in IT. Release all counselors. [[17.30 hours]] You'd save money if you fired all the members of the five-police government, especially the WHO, they're everywhere, so do you know how much money that would be? You're saving up! Let the Prime Minister order the government, as I ordered, just water and coffee. Everyone's talking about what it's like to be there, and now the bread and Fidorka and Rocher Rocher. Every time I saw it on the table, I screamed why they carried it! We were saving up. I did government at six o'clock in the morning with no soccer, then eight o'clock. Everyone at home had breakfast. [[Laughter.]] So start saving up! So you're saying there's a program contest, but you don't have a program. You know you don't have a program? I'm actually asking what you have with the government's programming statement. I've already evaluated it twice, you haven't evaluated it once. What you're presenting has absolutely nothing to do with the government's programming statement and absolutely nothing to do with your program. So you used the words here to hit citizens and companies, but you're not interfering with yourself. No, so Bartoš has four cars, they said. They said he had four cars. He's got the counselors there. All those who failed in the election now advise him. Everywhere - I don't know, the Minister of Education has 16 advisors. Cancel all counseling contracts. What's he telling you? What's the advice? Well, he gives you bad advice! What have you done in 570 days? What's he telling you? Stop all IT contracts, cancel consulting firms, get those counselors out of the way, walk by example. You didn't even freeze your salaries. We froze here as government in September 2021. You guys voted in favour because you already knew that The Senate will drop it. So you're setting an example? You're not! You said you guys did something, but I don't think you guys did anything. Then you correctly calculated that you would have a trillion taxes, 700 billion social security, health insurance, that you would get somewhere at two trillion, which, of course, is a huge sum. So you want people to save money, you take money from people. First, of course, to the elderly. Price off on the fare. It's embarrassing that you're not ashamed! Even those students, you took it, etcetera. Now the employees. But you're not setting an example. You're not setting an example! Not at all! There's not one example. Roads. Then why don't you order...? When I was Minister of Finance, I flew to Brussels economics, tenth row. That's the front row of the business. It wasn't until I was Prime Minister that I flew a special because of security reasons. Let people really go abroad who bring some business for our country, for our companies and not some political trips to Taiwan and all this nonsense that only brings harm and nothing good for our companies. So you're not saving up. You keep talking that we're all supposed to be saving money. Yeah, well, we who do our long-term living, we know what it's like to save money. And you know that you have a state representation agency in property matters. How many assets do you have there? Minister, I was interested in how much the state pays to foreign companies in rent, so that was $600 million. Six hundred million a year. I'm a foreign company. Well, try to look into it. Maybe Arajmu will find some of this... Yes, you killed the Letňany project because of Babiš. But the Letňany project was created in Macron's office in 2015, when I found out that they were all in one place. I mean, there's that subway that ends up in the field, and you could have freed up hundreds of apartments. Hundreds of apartments. And you're the synergy. But I understand that the Minister of Culture isn't here, so he's in the bedroom of the nobleman in the palace. So you didn't want that either. So you don't know what it's like to save money. You don't know what it's like to save money! You don't set an example, and then you can hardly ask people to do that. Tax exemptions. Yeah, well, I don't want to make any fundamental comment here. If you have such numbers, yes, it's true that there are enough exceptions, but I just don't think it's appropriate. It's not appropriate to disturb it, and it doesn't actually bring anything, only it makes people feel insecure. Yes, kindergarten. Sure, if you've got that kind of analysis. Ferrari. Agreed, I'm signing. I was talking about it. I don't even know why we didn't do it, I guess. socan talked about it. We've always wanted this, and 99 service Ferrari, I understand, I support, I agree. Yes. VAT. Well, that's all nonsense, of course. That's completely unnecessary. I would be terribly interested in how you want to check the VAT drop on food from 15 to 12 percent? Out of the question. Out of the question! It can't be done. It's completely out of control. If anyone says something's going to happen... If you did it like Poland and the Prime Minister did it with Morawiecký until now, until migration fraud and treason, he's a big friend, so in Poland, they're a loser, okay? And in that Biedronca, supposedly, I wasn't there right now, I was there once to check the prices, it says what it costs, I don't know, butter now, and how much it cost before the Polish state reduced VAT to zero. They have zero. You guys are bragging about being 12. But today our people go shopping not only in Poland but also in Germany. Everywhere in Germany, in Bavaria, beyond the border are Čech employed of course and everyone there buys and at good prices. I don't know how that's possible. And I don't know that it doesn't bother you as Treasury Secretary. You guys are losing a lot of money out there. Plus, our companies, our people are handsome and creative, so now they have a new business, that you actually order it, that Biedronka, and some Czech company will deliver it to you. Yes? So according to you, it's fine if you think it's gonna help, except it surprises me that the Prime Minister always doesn't do anything - you don't really do anything. You guys just, every time the PHM price drops, you scream that you've arranged it, and now that it's down, why don't we give them a freebie, if those citizens could profit from it? So construction - fine. There was a demonstration this morning of young people who didn't have a place to live. Who's to blame? Yes, we can talk about that here. Most of all, it's Rusnok, who has made absolutely senselessly raise the basic rate to 7 percent, destroying the entire mortgage market, and today young people who want to have housing, and it's in the nature of our people, they want to own - we're not in Germany, where 70 percent of the people are renting, so the young people here have demonstrated and wanted to know how it's going to be. Mr. Bartoš promised to build everywhere recently, and now he's actually saying that we're all going to rent. Yes, because if anyone thought the private investors who built apartments were gonna do charity, they wouldn't! Because, of course, there's a lot of money here, yes, and somebody's buying these people and then renting them out. Yes, 2+kk or 3+kk 37,000 basis. And now you're gonna raise property taxes, which is totally crazy, and the argument is odd, of course, so I don't know where the young people are gonna live. So if it helps, from 15 to 12 percent tax cuts on construction, I don't know. Medical resources, of course, I don't take it very seriously, because the first thing you did was take 14 billion, and it's basically a complete disaster. All the projects that were there aren't really going on. Reform of psychiatric care, cancer project, etc. Then you talked about excise duties. National flights. Okay. I will not go back to the fact that traditional democratic parties with rich corruption history destroyed ČSA, which I saved from bankruptcy, yes, and when Topolánek sold the share to Korejec for the price of one engine. ČSA - the third oldest airline in the world, and you destroyed it. This is your work of traditional democratic parties. Look at the LOT that belongs to the Polák and how it works. And we wanted to keep it in state hands, but unfortunately, it's gone. And the debate, sure, if, and so I understood it, as you said, if it were up to you, you would, of course, tax the kerosene or aviation gas. [[17.40 hours]] Well, how many carriers do we have here? We got a big one. So, of course, they're gonna raise prices, and they're gonna pay people. Well, that's a pointless debate, because I'm sure that's not going to happen, and I'm assuming you won't be dealing with domestic flights. Then there was talk of tobacco. We set it up for three years then, your proposal to do it for four years is good, I agree with that, I'm sure I support that. Warm tobacco is less harmful, we all know that, so there should definitely be a big... I agree with that, and I agree with the other taxes. What I disagree with is, of course, gambling. The founder of the ODS said there was so much corruption that before he came out of the first to the second floor, he was corrupt. That was so funny. By the way, we destroyed the vending machines here, I was the one who introduced the first gambling law. Well, you guys are talking about the rates, Internet 35, okay, consent. And then you're talking about the two rates. Well, what are we gonna talk about? It's always a Komárek fight against Dospiv. You like Komárek, who here privatized Sazka, which we never should have privatized, we should have left it to the athletes. You put $5 billion in shame on sports, we ended up with $10,5 and athletes would need $20 billion a year today. So you're cutting it down to 30, so obviously Mr. Komárek convinced you that he's got a small profit and you're on his arm, and Dospiva failed. Let's see how it goes with the changelings. I don't even want to discuss it, because I know it well, and as the finance minister, when I proposed an increase in gambling taxes, they're the biggest lobbyists here and they've always won, even -- well, I don't want to elaborate. And I think and agree with you, and in that I would support you, that I would not give any income from gambling to municipalities. Why? Why should they receive any proceeds? The state should take everything, have the gambling not well, there are 300 suicides a year. Čech, citizens of the Czech Republic spent 670 billion last year. That's completely insane. Totally insane! Well, he's out of it, you said, $4.2 billion increase. Basically, if I wrote it right, it's no big deal. Ponds, I agree with that, I'm sure you're right there. Property tax. Please, if you're comparing it to abroad, it's actually quite different there. I think there are extremely wealthy people there, that's why it's high up there. It's not like that in our country, so there I think that raising real estate tax is a mistake and it's just not good. And again, the whole package is meaningless, because it doesn't really bring anything, it's completely unnecessary. If you listen to what we recommend, and that's income, you don't pay any attention to that and you give up that income. And EET - I'm not gonna say this again like I said yesterday, even Mrs. Schillerová talked about it. Corporate tax rises from 19 to 21 percent. Come on, Minister, you were also in business, even though you were a politician, your mistress was in business. So to say that $22 billion is going to fall out of it, that's fine. What do you think these entrepreneurs are gonna do if you didn't help them with their energy? We have the most expensive energy in Europe, now the tax is rising, those who do not have euro loans, so of course they will pay even more. Well, first thing they're gonna do, if they don't work out, they're gonna touch people and take money away from people. I don't think it's necessary. Of course, last year, because you came up with that pointless windfall tax, you must be in a big package. I don't know how much it cost you, but now the pro-government news list - the Cypriot company gave a lovely interview, how amazing it was, so you could tell us how much you got. And now from 1. 7. They'll all pay for the backup. And I'm curious about it 30. 6. 2024, on that bill. Maybe you won't come back. I think you're going to return, and the question is, will you give interest to those who have high reserves and will not have such a tax obligation? Well, of course you're not gonna give it to them, so you're just gonna make a bank out of them. So if that's the biggest item, what do you want to do about it? There are countries in the European Union, I don't know which have a much lower corporate tax, not to mention that big boys have it all in Cyprus and in Holland and Switzerland and Liechtenstein, I mean the oligarchs who are so helpful here. Well, I don't understand it at all, but okay, so you've decided and you think he's gonna get so much out of it, so it's possible. A ceiling on energy prices. Well, I'd love to know where the money landed, because we still have the highest energy prices, the highest. That's your biggest and fatal mistake. When I recommended to Minister Síkel that he do it according to Slovakia on February 18, 2022, that's where the citizens got it, now the new bureaucratic government has extended it by a year and they have CZK 1450 per megawatt, there's the whole problem. There is the inflation, there are the extreme gains of energy producers, there is the problem of ČEZ. And if you had done that, of course you could have saved yourself a lot of trouble - Macron did it with EDF - that you could have bought out the CEZ minority. No, you just gave them an extreme dividend, and when the founder of the ODS TOP 09 Kalousek says he spent 200 billion on it, I say 250. That's how you should have dealt with the Šnobr. You're the decisive one. If you tell him you'll never get any dividends again, you've got 30 billion in five years, and your equity is 200, and you get 250 here, you've got 100 percent, and you can finally start building some 100%-owned energy company that has a LNG terminal in the Eems lease, which has 20 percent of the gas distribution, which has lithium, which has a dominant position in short, and which is drowning in profit. And you didn't. We're the ones who're proposing the dividend so you can take it. And now, of course, if you really want to split up the company and rip off the state that it's going to have something that's not going to produce money and that distribution is going to be owned by the minority, that would really be the most scandalous, but you could have done it because everyone is using that electricity and electricity for most of the products. So that's the problem. Crushing energy prices - what is the guarantee? You guys put crazy high ceilings, totally pointless. I don't know why you don't put it down. Of course, what guarantee is there that someone wasn't cheating, that they didn't sign the contracts and that they didn't make artificial prices to get you? How will you control it? Where's the money? Show me where the money went. I'd be very interested. I saw some $44 billion or $100 there to be perspective. So I think that's a mistake and the solution was 100 percent of ČEZ, a ceiling on 1500 crowns for people. And, of course, for companies, you could compare it with the surrounding states. After all, it is not normal that the Czech Republic increased electricity exports by 300 percent last year. Everyone around us has cheaper electricity and we produce cheap Dukovany for 500 crowns that it's written off, they don't have any emission allowances, the insaneness of those crazy people from the European Commission who are destroying the energy market with this speculation and certainly someone is making money on it, it's certainly not a coincidence. So you could have done it. [[17.50 hours]] So you didn't do the most important thing you should have done. I don't understand, I don't know, I'm not a professional politician, but I'm actually saying politically to all employees that they pay for insurance and at the same time say that we cancel EET - and some - where it says "poor fellow citizens, cash only," just cash, so obviously they don't show the receipts, so they don't have to pay you fair taxes, and all the employees pay taxes, and you give them 0.3 percent to pay. That is, of course, nonsense. A discount on students, so I don't know, I think the principle is wrong. I don't know, you're actually questioning that one of these students can make so much money and actually we should support the young generation if we don't have housing for them, they have a problem, so I think it's pointless. Even this politically - I don't understand it, you're politicians, you've been doing politics for a long time, so I don't know. So I would definitely -- you took their fare discount, everything goes up, you pay an expensive boarding school, and now you're actually saying yes to them, that if someone makes something, you basically want to tax them. I think we should make a difference - that we should support the young generation and that you should not do this. All the more so that nothing will come out of it, because we have a black economy here, you support it, the EET you actually told everyone: you don't have to pay taxes. And how many people are running around the Czech Republic who are here for some work permit, from Poland, from the EU. And how many people do black people here? No? So maybe Mr. Jurečka can take care of it. If you don't think these people are gonna find a cure for this, I think you're in a big mistake. The salaries of constitutional officials, so that's funny, because you know well that as a government, we approved it in September 2021, you voted it out here, and yet you knew that your Senate, which is part of your new totalitarianism, would just drop it. So you've turned these people into idiots, and now you're coming in and you're saying you're gonna freeze something. Okay, but what was the increase? Big, isn't it? So I suggested here as an MP to freeze it at 2021 level. You guys pushed for it, so everyone here has, in fact, 13 percent higher salaries. It is also not an example that you set an example for people. You're very lucky, yes, Minister Síkela here is still reporting to us about the state of the gas tanks, but if you read an article from an ex-Prague gas employee, everyone knows that the gas that's coming to us doesn't know what it's like, where it's swapped, there's LNG from Qatar, there's LNG from America, now I read that they're smuggling it from Russia through India. So, yes, it was a good winter, but I'm happy for you, you're very lucky. You're not doing anything, you're just taking precautions against people, and it works for you. Inflation, do you know, Minister, how much you cashed in on inflation? Last year plus 139 billion and this year in 6 months 130. So you cashed in $269 billion extra for the inflation they paid people. And you don't want to share with them, you take away their money, and you tax them. And seniors. So this is a completely absurd situation. So energy prices - I love it when the Prime Minister keeps talking about it - and praise bůh it turned out that way, I'm glad the gas is. The question would be how much Mr. Síkela bought it for, how he forced Beneš from ČEZ to buy it, and how much you sold it for. That was fun to know! No? Maybe we can find out sometime how much you bought, how much you sold, if you made money, you'll definitely brag about it. No? Your obsession - to keep attacking us that we haven't done energy self-sufficiency. So the Prime Minister said that we would cut ourselves off from Russian oil, the result - last year you imported 850 thousand tons more Russian oil than in 2021. I wonder, Minister of Industry, how you will deal with the Mol exception, which has an exception only until December to bring in oil, i.e. fuel containing Russian oil, as it turns out. But I'm sure we'll find out and the prices will go down. So you're still talking about what you've done. So the pipeline from Poland - who did not want, knows well Topolánek. No? We all know who didn't want it. The Prime Minister said he'd build it. Finally, the pipeline was built by the Polák and ended de facto on the Polish-Slovak border. Looks like it won't be. So it's all this nonsense over and over again. You were still accusing Havlíček of cheering for Rosatoma, while you were in the finals in Temelín Rosatoma against Westinghouse in 2012 and so on. But I don't want to talk about that at all. So you guys didn't make it, the energy. Yes, we do, so thank bůh for having them, sure, but the main problem is that you didn't help anyone. Again, nothing needs to be changed, the package is completely unnecessary, taxes are not to be increased, donate to income, donate to European funds. I do not understand that Minister Bartoš is no longer here, he did not go to Mr Stanjura and did not tell him that he had 4 billion overhangs to call for municipalities. When I was Prime Minister, all the ministers had orders to report where the overhang was. Yes, that's why we put 26 billion in schools and kindergarten. Yes? Why don't you support the ministers when they have investments? Minister Baxa's here, will the new scene be? You've got a new scene set up. The Imperial Spa is my work with Vildumetzová. You have Uherské Hradiště, the Museum of Totalitarianism I have prepared for you with Herman. We did the National Museum, we did the State Opera. You mít Invalidovna. Make that new scene. Do the National Gallery, there are beautiful projects. Investment in the restoration of our monuments. I don't know why you don't want to invest, I don't understand. It's tourism. Litomyšl and so on. So investment - Minister Stanjura, not a word. And investment means growth. No? Growth means GDP and GDP means new money. I think it's easy. We didn't know anything about that, so the solution was completely different. I am finally glad that the Minister said that we gave money for the covido, that we are not bankrupt, that the Prime Minister haunted us, but, of course, the defence of these measures is completely pointless. Total nonsense. You're very lucky that, once again, GDP is increasing. Of course, Mrs Černochová is also lucky, and Minister Stanjura talked about it, and next year the army will receive 48 billion in the budget, which I have nothing against. But the MPSV only gets $22 billion, but by having the first MPSV minister who actually fights seniors and takes their money, he probably doesn't mind. And education has minus 29! And Mr. Bartoš has minus 14. So everyone has a minus, so if you're giving so much to the army, give it to everyone. Give it to everyone! I mean, even the view of the debt as a percentage is very good. You have a view in 2025 44.4. Yes? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u52	Please let the Prime Minister speak and react afterwards.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u53	We're still in good shape, and I'm convinced there's a need to invest in the crisis. And what irritates me, of course, is that you keep talking about what we do. Then I'll show you my chart again, Minister. [[It's showing a graph.]] Look, here's the ODS government and the top 09 of 2008 you pulled it out on a $44.4, okay? That was your government. How many times is Kalousek there? Five, one Janota. For us it went 30 in 2019 and then it went up because of the covid. We gave people money. Because otherwise, it would be 15% unemployment, and now it's rising. But I'm not criticizing it. You're talking about us having a problem. The Prime Minister's talking about bankruptcy, haunting people, that's not true. You said it today, and I thank you for saying that so far it has been a constant warning, attention, Greece and so on. Greece is handy. Do you know how much Greece got for illegal migration? 3.5 billion euros. That's their business. Do you know why the Italian Prime Minister went to see Morawiecki? Because Morawiecki blocked the migration betrayal, and she needs the money, so that's the deal. He's gonna give, he's gonna give. That's the European Union, that's how it works, but you have to have a prime minister who has the courage to block and tell the European Council. You should have asked for the money, the 40 billion for Ukrainian refugees under the Presidency. And it's not that Mr. Rakušan is saying that you were still preparing the madness, the migration betrayal. I know what he was talking about. I was a minister who had a surplus budget that cut debt to GDP, and of course you're gonna tell me that I cut it down by growing my GDP. Yes, it did. But absolutely we held it, held it for a very long time. I have the chart here, okay? [[It's showing a graph.]] And actually we inherited the debt 2013 1 683 000 and 2019, when the normal time was still uncovided, it was 1 640,000, so we totally reduced the debt by 43 and, of course, we cut the debt by 15%. So please don't let anyone here train me from finance, especially people who have no idea, unlike you, Minister, what a state debt and the Treasury are and how it works. Yes, now you've fallen for it, we've fallen for the covid, but we've documented it all, everyone knows it, and that's why the citizens of the Czech Republic have savings of up to 900 billion and they still live on it, thanks to us, yes. And together, yes, someone blames it, we canceled a super gross wage, and I'm glad. And I say, yes, it was the right decision. But I don't understand when you agreed to this, to cut taxes, why you're raising them now, and not yet completely normal, because the whole package is really about nothing. In addition to that, the general government sector. Yes, we were so kind that within the covid we paid for the regions and municipalities and everything. We paid for everything. And then we changed the rud. So if you look at the fact that we're compared to RUD 2016 and RUD from January 1, 2022, we've been increasing the regions - 8.92 to 9.78. The village got 20.83 at 25.84. I don't know why we did it. If we don't have the STAN movement. [[With laughter.]] But we did it for the mayors because we didn't distinguish politically. We're terribly inexperienced, and our first experience has come to the start of your reign based on how you behave. [[With laughter.]] So if the YES movement is going to be in the government again, then we have a big lesson from you, a big lesson, no. Mr. Benda is smiling, you've been here for a long time, not 30 years, or how many years? [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] I admire you, sir, through... the chairman doesn't listen. Yeah, not good. No, you really have my admiration. So please, according to Eurostat 2022, the Czech Republic has the lowest risk of poverty, and this is our work. We got the Czech Republic to ninth place in prosperity. You guys have already dropped by three seats on the 12th. We beat Italians and Spain. We were the seventh safest country in the world, you fell to the 12th place because the Rakušan didn't understand what he had done. Those articles that are happening in Germany, how many people have asked for asylum, the invitation, the hundreds dead in the Mediterranean, it's hell. This is a threat to Europe. So we were leaving, the Prime Minister had it in ribbons, we left him a nice letter, it wasn't even published anywhere. I thought naively that it would work out for us, that I went to see them as Prime Minister. He never found time for me, but such a shame. For me, I have an article here that the Prime Minister, the President, will sometimes collect his bill to the EU. I don't know, if I was the finance minister, I'd ask him, Mr. Prime Minister, when are you going to go there and bring the money? Well, I'm very curious. Because if you want to take money from Brussels, that's the unanimous decision. And there's a tough fight. The whole proposal is pointless. You guys don't have any government programming statements, which is why I said we'd blow it off and all go on vacation and go back on September 15th. On September 15th, you'll have a deal, because I don't understand. When STAN says he wants to cut VAT on the paper, and Michálek says he wants to take money from the presidents, you probably don't have a deal. And you promised tripartite, which is so servile that I don't even want to comment. [[With laughter.]] I've never seen that before. You put that on your bread. Normally, I haven't seen the head of the department tell you on TV: Ježíš, Mr. Secretary, are you going to meet me? Well, thank you, then. [[He's changing his voice.]] [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] He yelled at me, "Medula" with Little Maláčová: "Put the money in it, just put the money in it." But you're a genius, you did it. Midpoint, let's not say what. The head of the Chamber of Commerce is from ODS, and the head of the Association of Industry is the one tossing around, he was looking at the 50 billion dividends when he left. And now he's fixing Bakalův's apartments. Congratulations, you've taken over everything. New totalitarianism. You've got everything. You have the president, you have the Constitutional Court, you have the entrepreneurs, you have the chambers, you have everything. We have a lot to learn, Minister. It's really cool. So, at the end of the day, there's one more thing I'd like to say, even though it's embarrassing, but I'm really, really sick of it. [[With laughter.]] And I have to say it here. Wait, I'm looking for the chart. [[He's showing the chart.]] I would very much like to ask President TOP 09 Pekarová Adamová, who, of course, I understand she's still kicking me to stop lying. We're dealing with your package here, and Mrs Pekarová was tweeting here at 2.14 today: Agrofert has record profits, but his business is paid by all citizens, more money is paid on subsidies than he pays on taxes. Thank you to our Member and Chairman of the Agricultural Committee, Michal Kučer, for illuminating bent realities by Andrej Babiš, we will cut the inefficient subsidies. Please, it's a dirty lie. And I'm asking Mrs. Pekarová to get her things straight. Mr. Kučera is smiling, I don't know how he became head of the agricultural committee, he doesn't have the education, he doesn't understand. He lied once before when he told the covido that the army was wearing some PENAM gingerbread, you apologized for that once, yes. You did that black job for Kalousek, you're the author of Lex Babiš, yeah. [[18.10 hours]] Here you want to privatize Budvar and I don't know what everything you're playing pokémon... [[President Bartošek: Through me, please.]] ...by playing Pokémon. [[President Bartošek: No, address.]] I don't know, so there's no Válek, he plays the card games on the computer. They're all playing. So stop lying, Mr. Kučera, through the chairman. Agrofert employs 40,000 people. Last year, he had the sales of 238 billion. All subsidies from all Agrofert companies are 0.8% in sales. Agrofert took CZK 5,025,330,000 in the Czech Republic last year, so stop lying about living out of subsidies. He took CZK 4 361,000,000 abroad, so he paid CZK 9 386 654,000 in taxes, so it's 20 percent of what he did. Stop lying. Say hello to Mrs. Pekarová, now some member lied about Váňa, you're lying now. So I'm asking you to stop lying so you don't write this crap. You don't know anything about agriculture. And that company, if she wasn't here, Olma's dead, Kostelec's dead, Planá's dead, Synthesia's dead, Tatra's dead, Lovochemie's dead. What are you smiling about? You were selling some light bulbs. What do you know about business? Then stop lying. [[President Bartošek: Please, through the President.]] Please, Madam President, don't insult me here with the company I built that took... In addition to employing and paying tens of billions, she pays, of course, so she paid your salaries, Mr. Ambassador - through the gentleman behind me here, Prime Minister, sorry. That's some kind of obsession or I don't know why you keep saying that. I've never responded to that. Why are you doing this? I'm saying here that Mrs Pekarová is taking 275 grand here and she still has replacements... she has everything for free, a few cars, bodyguards, she doesn't pay for food. I'm saying, how much did she give to Ukraine? Why are you writing this? Give me a break. Thank you, goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u54	I'm recording two factual points. First Minister Stanjura, then Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u55	61 minutes, I stopped it. A few comments - I agree with Mr Babiš that we should show debts or balances as a percentage of GDP. But it's not me that keeps saying the debt is going to be 400 billion, 350, 450, who's gonna think about how he's gonna look into a crystal ball. I totally agree with that. I know you understand financial markets, but this is where you pretended you didn't understand. I borrowed for a minus, you borrowed for a 4.5 - that's your credit? It's a matter of financial markets, isn't it? Those weren't ten-year bonds, negative accounts, I was the one who said... I was just describing how much I'm borrowing today. Alena Schillerová gave people 12 billion? No, their neighbors gave it to them, their neighbors signed up for it, they're taxpayers. No finance minister gives anything to anyone. Neither Andrej Babiš, nor Alena Schillerová, nor I. So these 12 billion were given to them by their neighbors from their taxes. That's the way to put it. And if we were to pay the entire debt this year, we would have paid 450 billion for interest this year if we'd paid 15 percent of the 3 trillion. So don't say someone gave something, their neighbors gave it to them. Ask them if they're glad they're on it. The student discount, it's all over again. A discount on a student today, what you're defending, is for a student who earns between 205 and 232 thousand a year gross and makes 4,000 crowns. That's all. Up to 205,000 is zero, over 232,000 is 15 percent. All we're saying is it's unnecessary to burden the tax system, this short section between 205 and 232,000. What's not to understand? You know that, you just act like we're taking something from students, we're antisocial. Too bad you didn't forgive yourself for the final personal attacks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u56	Thank you for respecting the time. Next, Mr Michal Kučera is registered with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I said yesterday that it is definitely wrong for Members to write their speeches in advance and then read it here. I have to say, sometimes it's better if you write that speech in advance and don't talk down. However, I would like to say a few words about what my previous speaker here said about subsidies to Agrofert. Of course, I have obtained some numbers from Agrofert, or I know, from public sources, of course. Agrofert does not belong to Andrej Babiš, which means it is not an anti-babish, it is simply one of the companies in the Czech Republic. I was quite surprised that Andrej Babiš here identified or somehow identified himself with her when it wasn't his company and had nothing to do with her. In 2021 Agrofert collected CZK 2.2 billion in subsidies, with about CZK 1.2 billion in taxes paid. It's from public sources, it's been published by the Message List. I draw only from public sources. There was a reference to Agrofert's annual report. And when we look at that graph, there's a pretty interesting view that the ratio between the drawing of subsidies and taxes is starting to break in 2016, 2017. Can we guess why it's there? I have heard some correct answer that maybe this is because at that time the YES movement took control of this country. At this time, the ratio really broke in favor of the fact that Agrofert is more pumped than it is on the taxes. They're public figures. Finally, I would say - I hope the Minister of Finance noted this - and there I see really the greatest savings. If we touch these subsidies, it's not the hot dogs that Andrej Babiš was talking about, the snacks, but the billions that we can save on direct subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u58	Thank you. I note factual remarks, including yours, Mr President, but I must respect the order. Mrs Alena Schillerová will be the first to speak, then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, then President Andrej Babiš and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u59	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I'm not gonna argue with you about someone putting on those bonds, that's for sure, it's from taxpayers' money. But please, let's talk about the history of the bonds. The ODS government started it, the finance minister was Miroslav Kalousek, and I followed up on it because it seemed a good idea to me, and the reason it wasn't then, the interest was about 2%, sometimes below 2%. That wasn't interesting. The guys who bought it were buying it out of some nostalgia or because they just wanted to put the money in security. My intention then was that - no one thought inflation would be such - that part of the Czech debt was owned by Czech citizens. That's why it's also called the Republic Bond. We chose the name very carefully, and I think it's not wrong. Because who has the greatest relation to this country, to this nation, nobody but Czech citizen, Czech household. Definitely more than financial markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u60	Thank you. Now Minister Stanjura, President Andrej Babiš will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u61	About two parts. First, to Mrs Schillerová's performance. I'm thinking, we meant well, it turned out like it always did. Motivation good, result awful. If there's a small premium against the average that the state buys for, I understand. But it's no limit, and that's the results. No limit, and those are the results that the neighbors will pay those people. For example, if interest is 0.2 or 0.3 above the average that the State is buying, it is a motivation, it has a limit, it is not so extremely disadvantageous in the moments that could have happened, as we have seen, like inflation. About the investigation. I took the financial report 1. 1. 2013, this is the date that Mr Andrej Babiš likes to use. I found out from his performance that his government ended in 2019. He didn't talk much about the results of 2021. There were 15 248 systemized positions in financial administration, then it kept rising, the record was 16 300 in 2017, 2018 and 16 210 in 2019. [[18.20 hours]] I took over on December 17th, 2021. Over that time, we've reduced over 800 systems and 1. 1. 2023 is 14 923. That is 1,350 seats less than you, Mr. Ambassador Andrej Babiš, and that is less than 1. 1. 2013. Those are the savings that are right, those are the savings that you asked us how we were saving. We cancel the agendas and reduce the number of jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u62	Thank you. Next will be President Andrej Babiš, then Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Alena Schillerová and others, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u63	Minister, I don't know what you're talking about. I mean, you have a new system, plus 160 seats, and what's with the Financial Administration? Financial administration only controls Agrofert companies, nothing else. You clearly told them that they didn't have to control anything, because EET - everyone does what they want. You've re-established the gray economy. So please don't lie. Here's clear evidence of how you manage. The Czech Republic will pay the Michelin guide fee, decided by the government. Are you kidding me? I had a restaurant in France that had two stars -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u64	I'm gonna ask you to use anybody's dirty words in their language.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u65	Who's gonna charge for this again? What is this, 54 million? Now you're taking money from people and giving the $54 million that someone's been calling you for Michelin? Who needs Michelin here? Nobody needs him here. What is this, this? Are those your savings? So, Mr. Kučera, you stop lying, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u66	Through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u67	Your way. Agrofert paid five billion. You don't understand anything about agriculture. You're a lying liar, proven. You lied with the gingerbread, yeah. Stop lying. I put Agrofert in the funds, and the numbers I gave are public. So try to do something else. You're a proven liar, here it is on paper, from the media. I don't know why you're smiling so stupidly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u68	Before I give another word, I will ask you, colleagues, first of all, not to use dirty words in your speeches. Secondly, to avoid insulting each other, colleagues and colleagues. Next, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, then Alena Schillerová, Ivan Bartoš and others, will make a point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u69	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to comment on my previous speaker, Mr Kučer, through you, Mr President. Mr. Ambassador, I had some discussion with Mr. Výborný on TV with Terezia Tománková and the Minister of your Government, and there I informed you that it would be good to know the ratio of subsidies to sales for individual agricultural entrepreneurs. Then, of course, I also talked to the Minister about this matter, and I asked ÚZEI for this information, with the fact that I also calculated what I would like to divide these things. I'll be very happy when this report lands on my desk so that we can sit down together and see how the individual company's proportion of the revenues is taken into consideration by eligible, investment, and then operating to see it. Then let's put these numbers together, please, and I'm going to ask you to apologize to the ones you've been deceiving, because it doesn't look as pink as you say it is. I don't want to say if you understand it or not, but I'm asking you, let's do it and let's make a conclusion out of the relevant data and let's say it's that and so on. Let's think about it big, small, because SZIF and I both have these data, let's just learn how to evaluate them. We're not gonna lie here and tell each other who's standing. So we can also ask the Financial Administration who pays the taxes to see who pays the Treasury, from which all this money goes, and who participates in what percentage. Now I don't think about big, small, businesses, but anyone who pays taxes employs people deserves respect and we won't get vilified here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u70	Thank you, too. President Alena Schillerová will now appear, Minister Ivan Bartoš will prepare, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u71	Mr. Secretary, the problem isn't if anyone's upset that they're gonna give the neighbor interest. The problem is whether the interest goes to small Czech savers or bankers in London City. That's the point. For me, small Czech savers, for you - we all know who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u72	Thank you, as next Minister Ivan Bartoš, then President Marek Benda. Minister, if you wish to make a point of fact... You want a point of order? I'll put you in order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u73	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform. I would like to thank the debating Members and members of the ANO movement for being much more sophisticated than their boss. I thought it was only when Mr. Babiš was Prime Minister that he was here as generously talking to people sitting around. I see he's got no boundaries anymore. Two things I wanted to mention. First. I'm very glad to be able to follow up on the things that went well with the previous government. For example, the procedure in the Partnership Agreement and the drawing up of European funds and the work of Klára Dostálová. But if there's anything you should do, Prime Minister, to keep your mouth shut and toss your feet in, it's a matter of housing availability in the Czech Republic. You were in that government as Minister of Finance and Prime Minister. MMR had YES for eight years, and the situation has steadily deteriorated in the housing market. The municipalities have not built, the programs have not been well written, they have not been drawn, and in the last ten years the housing market situation, the combination of the factors and ownership, has caused a 60% increase in property prices. So the best product to save money for anyone was to buy an apartment at the time, because the price was rising. This situation is so rusty and in a year no one will build any apartments. The second thing you're talking about is lies. I just want to remind you that you are referring, your lawyers, to a statement where you were once again found to be a liar in the matter of "Pirates will move migrants into your apartments" which you yelled at in the campaign. So let's see how the Supreme Court stands up to this, because the instance that was supposed to decide decided that you should apologize for lying. It almost seems to me that you have some friendly editors who are giving you subtitles in the media that aren't true, and then you don't have the preparation to say things in a matter of fact, but what to do and just repeat the lie. There isn't an extra car at the Department of Regional Development than it was when Klára Dostálová was there. Two cars available to the Minister by law are borrowed from škodovka. Even in accordance with legislation. One is a hybrid car, the other is an electric car to meet standards that you couldn't even discuss in the House. So don't lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u74	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda will now appear, then Mr Michal Kučera, then Mr Síkela. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u75	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just ask that we pull the ball down a little bit, so I say we don't yell at each other here in the room, who's lying, who's lying, who's lying. I have already responded, I have made a point of fact in the dirty word that has been said here. I would remind you that once here in the ancient past, a Member has been punished for a similar word that has been used. I will not suggest it, there is a complaint from the President. But seriously, if we want to live here together in some way, let's not yell at each other that we're liars. You may be wrong, you may have a different opinion, but this seems to me like we're putting our atmosphere on the spot for nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u76	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Michal Kučera, then Minister Síkela, Minister Stanjura and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u77	Well, thank you again for the floor. I'm very sorry for the emotional performance that Andrej Babiš performed here. It's a real shame. The debate was very sophisticated. I've spoken of a company that doesn't belong to him. It has nothing to do with him. Plus, I gave the data I gave from public sources. I wrote "Babiš lied" in Googl. It jumped on me: Babiš confessed that he lied about Chap's nest - list.cz . Babiš lied that he didn't know about expert proposals - forum24.cz . Babiš lied, manipulated and twisted, basically turned the election into a referendum. Babiš apologized for the second time to the protester he lied about. I lied about the nest. I apologized to Babiš. And so on. There's actually a few hundred to a thousand of those references. That's just the reaction to Andrej Babiš pointing out in his speech who was lying and pointing at me. So this is just a very brief, simple Google entry, a simple reference, on the subject of Babiš lied. I agree with Mrs Balaštíková. That's a very good idea about the stats, and I'm very happy to talk about it, and really very factually, because this makes sense. [[18.30 hours]] I'm not really a fan of the fact that people's salaries make up their taxes for private business. It's not really the right way. Of course, in that sector of agriculture, which is very much in Europe, it is probably not possible that the direct subsidies there in some way are necessary to some extent. But I will be very happy to have a joint proposal on the basis of this document on how to reduce, reduce and set them up more effectively. So I'll be very happy to use this material to do it, and we'll lead the debate to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u78	Thank you, too. Minister Síkela will now appear, Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will prepare, then President Andrej Babiš and others, all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u79	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to respond very briefly to President Schillerová's statement about small savers and what is the difference between, if the money is stored by small savers or if the money is stored somewhere in London City. Please, let's not confuse concepts again. A small saver is certainly not the category of people who bought your inflationary bonds, because according to the numbers I have at my disposal, the so-called average ticket, that means the average deposit, that's 500,000. It has nothing to do with small savers, it's really about the upper middle class and the wealthy people. And I just want to add one thing to that. Maybe the intent was good, but it didn't go well at all. You even forgot about the very high interest rate to apply the withholding tax. So the dramatic impact of the 85 billion, how much was eliminated, which we were luckily able to stop, was enhanced by the fact that, in fact, from the revenues that your so-called small savers and the pensioner who has for the 100,000, we have retired people who aren't quite as bad as the opposition sometimes tells us, so I congratulate them. But what I'm saying is that the impact is also enhanced by the fact that the very high yields were not taxed by the fact that withholding tax was not applied to the inflation bond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u80	Good evening. We took turns managing the meeting, so have a nice day. And with another factual remark, Minister Stanjura will speak. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u81	I actually want to get off to the same one. Let's not make a false dilemma between the Czech saver and London City. The average storage was mentioned by Minister Síkela. I don't blame the people who bought it at all, just so it's clear. The error was not on the side of those who bought, the error was on the side of the state that there was no limit. And I said in my previous speech that I would understand how to motivate Czech citizens and have... Well, there's no limit on the level of interest, so we understand each other. We do, because so-called advantageous for the state, for the neighbors who pay it, it's four times more expensive than in the city! So ask the neighbors if they want to contribute to interest to their colleagues on the street for four times the size, probably rich or medium-rich, but I don't blame those who bought it. They got an offer, they used it. I see a mistake on the side of those who made the offer and didn't put a limit on it. And I was saying, if we put a limit on it, some motivation, that if it's a Czech citizen, that it has better than the average interest we're issuing to that London City or to the Czech banks, which, therefore, hold a lot of government bonds, I would be in favour. And let's debate whether it's 20 basis points or 40 basis points or 50, but it can't be four times more expensive! I was just saying, if we were to finance the entire state debt like this, this year we're going to give CZK 450 billion for interest! This year, the neighbors, all our citizens, would have to pay CZK 450 billion on interest. And I think we can agree that's not a good way to go. So let's talk about not making mistakes like that again. Thought good, really. By not having the ceiling on the interest, on the amount of the interest, a very bad result. Then we wonder. In January, the bad result was worse than in January 2022. We gave 12 billion in January for those 80 billion debts, 12 billion. What can be the monthly result of a cashier's settlement if you don't have one year and the other year you have 12 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u82	Time, Minister! Thank you. Mr Babiš will now speak with a point of fact, and will be prepared, Mrs Peštová. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u83	Mr. Finance Minister, I was wondering, how did you agree that three people or four people lobbied 54,000,000 on Michelin? I don't understand. You tell people that savings, of course it's just plain dirty. I've never seen that before. I recommend Mr. Kučer to grow up because pensions are paid from social security and, of course, health insurance. So he compares apples to pears. I don't understand how a man like that who doesn't understand agriculture is the head of an agricultural committee. And about the lying, there's the black and white, Mr. Kučera, you just made up your mind and lied about the PENAM gingerbread, you're obsessed? You're as sick from Agrofert and Babiš as Michálek. So you can have a beer together and try to heal. I'll just remind Mr. Bartoš that in 2016, he demonstrated with the flag of Antifa and welcomed refugees. You're the extreme left, you want to change Europe, you want another culture here! So please don't lecture me here! Learn to draw European funds. You'll get a reply from Klára Dostálová. Yes? And there's an overhang. Four billion people want communities. We put 26 billion in the capacity increase of kindergartens and primary schools and so on. The Kovářův's always used to probably cut the tape. In November 2013, she cried that Kalousek didn't give her a crown. Go see, it's all true, that's what we did. So, living, Dostálová. Try to draw the funds, they've been pumping for us. And you don't have time for that. End 2023, for example React-EU. You have 22 billion health care there. So that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u84	Thank you for keeping time. I will just ask you to address your fellow Members next time through the President. Thank you. And now, Mrs Peštová will come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to respond in my essence to Mr Kučera here. The TOP is obsessed with Mr. Babiš, it's obvious. He mentioned it here through you: Yesterday, the Army of the Czech Republic brought two large boxes to our home for seniors. Everyone expected it to be a covid test kit for employees. However, there are Easter gingerbreads in the boxes from PENAM, Mr Kalousek - I do not have to use Mr President - I expect police intervention at the Office of the Government in the next few days. The abuse of the army to deliver gingerbread from PENAM is as systemically unacceptable as the abuse of intelligence to watch a rival in love. [[He's talking loud and expressive.]] And our Supreme Attorney General measures everyone equally! Controled Mr. Kalousek on Twitter. You are obsessed, you are not normal in the TOP, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u86	Next will be Mr. Pražák, Minister Baxa will be prepared. We're still in factual notes. Mr. Pražák withdraws, so Minister Baxa..
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u87	Thanks for the word. I'm gonna stick to the challenge of President Benda here about a calm tone and not lying. And so, only Mr Babiš, through the Vice-President, will I make one of those statements that you said. Not that my ministry office is really in the bedroom, that's right, nostický Palace. It's not true I'm not here, I'm here. Ambassador, I just want to say that you keep repeating at the Imperial Spa: The Imperial Spa is mine, I made the Imperial Spa. So just so that Members, citizens know: It is a project that has been completed at the moment and yes, the funds have been released at the time of your government and we have completed it, now the project will be charged. But I'm gonna use another example that I'm not gonna call a concert hall in Ostrava is Baxův. We agreed with Minister Stanjura, the Government, and then the entire Parliament that Mr Tomáš Macura was the mayor of your movement in Ostrava at the time that we would support the construction of the Ostrava concert hall of CZK 600,000. It was approved in the budget, included in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The moment the action takes place, it will be financed. And believe me, I never thought I'd go anywhere and say, that's Bax's Baxův, that's what I did like Baxa. [[18.40 hours]] It's taxpayers' money, Mr. Ambassador. It's not your money, it's not mine. It's taxpayers' money. And that's exactly what I said at the opening of the Imperial Spa festive evenings. And I'm sure the honourable Member will confirm that I said, yes, it's the support of the state and taxpayers. Then don't say the Imperial Spa is yours. I'm not gonna say the Ostrava Hall is mine. It's one money - taxpayers' money, and that's how we're supposed to talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u88	Thank you for keeping time. President Schillerová will now speak. Before he gets to the counter, I'll read the apologies. President Pekarová Adamová apologises from 18.30 for personal reasons, Mr Kolář Ondřej from 17.15 for health reasons, Mr Lang Hubert from 18 to 23.55 for health reasons, Mr Wenzl from 20 hours for health reasons. Minister Baxa apologizes from the members of the government from 21:00 for family reasons, Minister Dvořák takes back his apology for today's meeting day and Minister Šalomoun from 12:00 to 17:20 and from 21:00 he apologizes for work reasons. Madam Speaker, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Maybe I won't even use them. I am so glad that the ministers of Síkela and Stanjura have discovered the problem of the disastrous management of this government, so they are bonds from the era of ministering to Alena Schillerová. Well, I don't know who's making these argumentative aces up for you, whether you're making them up yourself, or the army advisors are preparing them for you. But in any case, the results are as miserable as economic policy. I want to remind you that there is something behind this inflation and someone - especially your inaction. Why is the inflation so high? That's what we said to each other x-times, I'm not gonna say it again. And why did it have an impact on these bonds, anyway? And as far as funding is concerned, I suggest that we turn my attention to the ongoing efforts of the Ministry of Finance to divert part of the debt to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure in order to optically reduce the state budget deficit, that is, and to go there, even considering some disadvantageous bonds. So I believe it won't escape the attention of anyone competent. Mine, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u90	Another comment will be made by Mr Brož. Mrs Balaštíková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u91	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Minister Síkela, who once again stood up and told us some of his wisdom that he had anti-inflationary bonds, that he had the information and the data that there was an average ticket of CZK 500,000. I don't know what he meant. It is CZK 500,000, if you take on average, Minister, so you can give ten hundred thousand and one four-million (?) and you have a total of 500,000. That doesn't mean anything. And those anti-inflationary bonds - I know people who actually bought $100,000 for $200,000. And they were bought by young families who were going to have a mortgage payment, just a few hundred thousand crowns, and they were afraid of inflation. So don't ever devalue this place and don't use this number. That was a thing for people, and it definitely helped people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u92	The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u93	Once again, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon or early evening. I will once again comment on Mr Kučer through you, Mr President. You said you really wanted to distribute the subsidies well. This is where the subsidies started to be used as a hammer for witches, and mostly they're used in agriculture, which really bothers me because they're everywhere. They're in industry, too. What would we call owners of wealthy companies who receive subsidies from the MIT? Are we gonna call them industrial tycoons when we call them agrobarons? What do we call them? Oh, no, we can't call them that. We must give them these subsidies, because the whole European policy is based on subsidies and on national subsidies, and only the size of the country's budget determines how it stands. So we can't do without it. But if we're gonna have fun, and I'm gonna take advantage of him for standing here, I think the finance minister has already disappeared, so if the money was mine and it wasn't the state, and it wasn't that virtual, and I was responsible for it, then I'm gonna put the money where it's gonna come back. I'm not putting them where they won't come back. And I'm going to put them in successful companies because that's where the money turns and comes back three, four, five times to this state. And maybe that's what the Treasury Secretary should realize when he's cutting off the subsidies and he still doesn't know how to split it. Because I have to give it to the successful ones! [[The speaker gradually raises the voice.]] I can't give it to those who won't fail today, but the day after tomorrow, because I gave them subsidies! And unfortunately, those are the successful ones. That's it! Let's not paint it and lie to each other! Because if it was your money, your personal money, you'd do it because you knew you'd lose it. But since they're all of us, and the responsibility isn't here, we're gonna blow them like that. And we're still gonna be people who take subsidies, and it doesn't matter if it's agrobarons or industrial moguls, we're gonna be throwing sticks at them? [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u94	Time, Madame. Thank you. Another comment should be made by Minister Stanjura, but I don't see him here, the application is failing. Now it's time for Minister Válek. Then there is the order: President Babiš, Mrs Mračková and Minister Síkela. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. I may be a little off topic, but I just wanted to assure you, through Mr Babiš and all my colleagues, that even though I am not here, I am listening very carefully, which means, don't worry, as far as the health sector is concerned, I am writing it down, I am recording it. I can assure you that even if I don't get to interpelation sometime, I'm also replaying it, I'm listening to what's going on here, and I'm really going to try and do whatever vulgarity comes from anybody, so I'm going to try really hard to work with everyone. I promise you that here and I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u96	Thank you. Mr. Babiš will now appear. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u97	That's great news, Minister. I don't know if you know I had the National Investment Plan drawn up by 2050. You're setting up a commission. That's where you've got everything. For health, Minister War, you have 164 billion there. You have 20,000 projects for all resorts for 8,000 billion. So Minister Baxa spoke here... I asked him about the new scene, that's what you got there. Will it? It won't? National Gallery! I had nothing to do with Ostrava. But I guarantee you, if Herman hadn't taken me to Uherský Hradiště in 2016, the Museum of Totalitarianism I spent two years of bureaucracy on would never have been prepared. And I'm glad the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance were there. Then finish him off! And make that new scene. And I, when I went into politics, I said I wanted to show people something. And what can we show them? Freeways, bypasses, railway stations, crossings and cultural monuments! After all, cultural monuments are hiking. No, Mr. Secretary? But Minister Stanjura didn't say a word about investment today. The word "investment" didn't come up. So is this gonna be a new scene? Will the National Gallery be? I took Macron to the French collection. Is that it or isn't it? What are you gonna do? Invalidation? What will you reconstruct? Any locks? Anything? Say something specific, don't you think? The new scene was on the table. Yes. If I hadn't visited the Imperial Spa as Prime Minister, they wouldn't be, believe me. You privatized Thermal in 1990, nobody even paid you. Then we inherited it, the court... And now the Karlovy Vary Festival, I hope you were there. That Thermal guy's cute, isn't he? We put a billion in there, didn't we? And that was my work with Schillerová. I'm not applying to Ostrava. And the Imperial Spa? I was at the beginning and I made it, yes, Mr. Governor. But we all fought for it. That's why I'm talking about it. [[Time.]] And the Hungarian Fortress, the Museum of Totality would be nice to finish. [[Time.]] So I wish you luck putting the money in there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u98	If you want to sign in again. Thank you. And now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's point of fact, she will speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u99	Thank you for the floor. I also have to respond to the Minister of Culture about the Imperial Spa, he knows very well, I just want to remind him that the Imperial Spa closed in 1994, since then it has been decaying. Perhaps all the finance and culture ministers came to that facility and all promised to save the Imperial Spa. Nobody did it! Nobody gave that money to the Karlovy Vary Region. It was Andrej Babiš and Alena Schillerová. That's just how it was. If they hadn't given the funds, the reconstruction and rescue of the Imperial Spa would never have started in 2019. [[18.50 hours]] It cost CZK 830 million. After the start of the new leadership, they decided to set up a concert hall. I agree with that, but I would personally go on the way to the spa, but I agree, it was done. But the contract went up to CZK 1,500 million. You're all hearing it right. And do you know what subsidy the new government has given within the unique concert hall that the Karlovy Vary Region now has? Zero crowns! That says it all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u100	And the last one, with a factual remark, is the enrollment of Mr králíček. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u101	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond briefly to Minister Válek. Minister, you know, at least Mr. Kučera has a consistency in insulting us on Twitter and here is still consistent. But you're saying how you want to work with us. I opened your Twitter, and you didn't hesitate to insult Mr. Farhan today, Mr. Vondráček and others. I honestly wonder, and I can't imagine, and I'm not a doctor, I don't have to cooperate with you, but if I were a doctor, our doctor, I couldn't imagine working with you at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u102	That was the last point of fact... No, not yet. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u103	I would still like to respond to the Minister for Regional Development, who was talking about the availability of housing here. So I would first of all in relation to this government, which has the most ministers, I keep repeating it, which will not even fit in those benches, so I would like you all to focus your eyes on the websites of all ministries. Because, of course, by approving the amendment to the Service Act, all departments have filled their positions as political representatives. Of course, the previous government also had a political deputy, one. When you look, all the Deputys have transformed themselves into Section Director, and each minister today has two or three political deputys. And I would like to ask the Minister for Regional Development, because the Ministry for Regional Development is not a big one, so I was looking, at the moment he has three political vice-chairmen, about five section directors, how many times was he in our structurally disabled region, and then how did he deal with the availability of the housing and all the following things? I say again that this government simply does not go to those regions, it has never been in our structurally disabled. They say that when the President was there, they won't copy the President, but I think he should go to those regions. And most importantly, I see that when we have a consolidation package on the table here, a tax package, and you say it's economical, then, above all, the government should really start apart. And I can't really see that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u104	And now, with a point of fact, Minister Síkela will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u105	I will just - and I hope for the last time - briefly return to Mr Brož and Mrs Schillerová's speech on those inflation bonds. All I'm saying is that if the average ticket is 500,000, it's very likely that there aren't many small savers. And once again, someone who buys an inflationary bond for CZK 100,000 is not a small saver. I'm not denying that there are definitely people who bought $100 - $200,000. I know a lot of people who bought in bulk. They bought in bulk, people who say they had to buy for a return that they didn't even have from risky stock products. I would like to compare it to the koruna bonds that Mr Babiš knows well because he also issued as part of his activities in Agrofert for more than a billion, those were the untaxed bonds, I think the police were investigating it at the time, then it was postponed. And the argument was also -- it was a good product for us, so we bought it. I am simply saying that the product was poorly set up, that you misset it as former Finance Minister, Mrs Schillerová, and that it simply did not pay the State, or the State, it did not pay the taxpayers who had to pay very high interest to people who did not need these revenues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u106	Mr Farhan is now on the verdict, followed by Mr Babiš, Mr Brož and Mrs Schillerová. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u107	Thank you. I would really like to respond to my colleague Králíček, to be clear, because here he took my name and Radek Vondráček, that we were insulted by Minister Válek. I don't really see it that way. Since the Minister is a little confused, he wrote that I, Radek Vondráček and other Members participated in the fact that we were in Russia. Which is true, we were there with the Health Committee. And that we were fraternizing, the health committee, with the Russian paramedics. I was going to say that first Minister Válek should see who was there for the TOP 09 and who goes to Russia for the TOP 09 and who is fraternizing there! So these were prospective trips, those were the pioneers, the TOP 09 that went to Russia to fraternize! Who was there from ODS? Let Mr. Válek write about the committees that went to Russia where they were! Which members were they? Why does he write about us? Tell him he was in front of us with the TOP 09! Why doesn't he write it down? Is he ashamed that someone from TOP 09 is going to be fraternizing in Russia? He only writes about us? For proboha's sake, he's the right guy who said he'd be, I don't know, kind enough to cooperate with us and that he doesn't want to argue like that. And then he goes and writes that we're fraternizing? Tell him to write who from Top 09 was there, and from the ODS too! And from the government coalition! There was a school committee, there was a health committee, and there were others! Let him name them! And if he wants, I can give him the photos that were there from TOP 09, for God's sake! Like, and from what... Where they were taking pictures everywhere. And unlike him, I don't record cell phones with co-workers who talk to him on the phone, and I'm not bragging about the microphone! [[Upset.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u108	Next, Mr Babiš, will make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u109	Well, I don't know who was there from TOP 09, but I remember the founder of the ODS Mr. Klaus was talking about the dinner with Putin. And when dinner was over, Klaus wanted vodka. And Putin said, well... Then somehow they brought him the vodka and next to the table were Němcová and Kalousek, founder of ODS B - TOP 09, and shouted - we want vodka too! Well, the others, I don't know... Please, Minister Síkela, don't try this on me again. Because those bonds are Kalousek and Sobotk. You know why you're teasing me again? Why are you teasing me again? It was 6%, you guys made inflation at 19, so stop it. Yes, the police are investigating Babiš. As the Financial Administration only investigates Babišův's companies, Babiš is being investigated by the police. Often. There were 85 criminal prosecutions on Berlusconi. Well, Babiš, too. Because Babiš needs to be rid of because Babiš doesn't have coalition potential. Babiš doesn't steal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u110	It could also address colleagues through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u111	Thank you. I'll take the liberty of taking on Minister Síkela and those anti-inflationary bonds. She's the kind of game with the numbers you guys do, and the people who have it, they're happy for it. And that demagogic interpretation that someone else is paying for it, that's exactly what you're going to do to divide society, that it's just that someone else is paying to valorize pensions, that's exactly the same thing. It's like you said that a person who doesn't have a building savings allowance is actually contributing to the next one. And a lot of stuff like that. I'm not going back to discussing this. I'm just saying. What's being criticized here is the abolition of the supergross wage and, for example, the anti-inflationary bonds, these are the things that have been done for people and people have benefited. Try doing something like that for people. And then brag about it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u112	President Schillerová will now speak with a point of fact. So far, the final point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u113	Thank you for the floor. I'm the one who quickly tracked this place down. Minister Síkela, excuses you for not being in the government back then, anti-inflationary bonds were part of the official strategy for managing and financing sovereign debt. The moment they were issued, according to all available predictions of the Ministry of Finance's expert apparatus, they were evaluated as an appropriate tool. Otherwise, they would not be issued. There's no other way. Of course, the fact that your government, despite all the predictions - including the craziest ones - had let inflation go, was not expected at that time. He couldn't wait and wait. You're the only one who's responsible for the extra costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u114	Minister Síkela is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u115	Mrs Schillerová, I know that some economics... [[ANO members call from the bench: Through the President.]] I don't have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u116	You must, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u117	Last time I was told I didn't have to, so...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u118	You're not an MP, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u119	So try to make a deal, okay? I don't really care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u120	It's up to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u121	I like to talk straight. The professional public, among whom I do not place you - and you know this well - agrees that the inflation spiral and core inflation foundations have caused your management. Inflation is something that is short-running and very difficult to control. So I'm just saying that we took over inflation after you and, luckily, we reacted quickly... and what you're saying is that - now I think when it comes to koruna bonds - and this product, which was unbearable to keep in debt financing, we stopped as much as possible. [[Laughter from the benches of the YES movement.]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u122	Mrs Peštová will now make a point of fact, Mr Babiš will be prepared and Mrs Schillerová will be signed in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u123	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief. I can go straight, Minister, you can't. [[Laughter on the left.]] So, Minister, I'm gonna go straight ahead, too. Not you, Minister, not you. [[Fun in the hall.]] I just wanted to respond to what you said. Well, I thought, since you're so arrogant, you're a bit of a gentleman. But I see there's nothing there. Therefore, if you want to insult Mrs Schillerová, through Mr President, I do not know why you say here that you do not place her among the professional public. And where do you rank, Minister? You're an expert? Or what are you? Banker? Or...? What are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u124	Next up, Chairman Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u125	It's true that Minister Síkela is always arrogant, I don't know why. He's got to be soft on women. [[Laughter, applause from the left.]] I mean... have you packed your suitcase for Brussels yet? That Ursula is a fragile lady... And that Jourová and Vestager and all those women there. Well, you're gonna have to learn. What are you talking about? About inflation? That kind of crap? Did you do something about inflation? You banished her at 19 percent! [[In an elevated voice.]] So study it! Stanjura got 260 billion! We hit inflation! In November and December 21 percent of VAT per energy to zero was negative inflation, we ended 5.3. What are you talking about, inflation? [[What's that?]] So you should have arranged for the cancellation of emission allowances that make electricity from coal more expensive! No? So what are you guys talking about? You didn't do anything about inflation! [[You?]] It's okay. So, please, Minister, fly to Brussels already, that's for the best, okay, and let it go. You've already done so much damage here. And the bullshit you have here... and treat Mrs. Schillerová nicely and don't insult her, okay? 'Cause then I'd really get out of my way and write something again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u126	Now, President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u127	No, I will no longer respond to the arrogance of Minister Síkela, because there is nothing else, and I think that such a person cannot offend anyone like me, for I certainly do not take it to heart because he is a person who has absolutely no level for me. Just two numbers. When our government ended, inflation was 5.4, mean 3.8 for 2021. And as I recall, you guys made it to 19 percent, so it really was a spiral, so it was rolling. She was rolling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u128	Mr Juchelka, Mr Lochman, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u129	So maybe we're going back to the consolidation package because we're starting to discuss economic issues. All I'm gonna do is fill in my honored colleague Alena Schillerová. Yes, according to Eurostat, inflation was 5,4% in 2021 when this government of Andrej Babiš ended. We were the sixth least-indebted country of the European Union, we were ninth as the most prosperous countries in the European Union, and real wage growth was 8.2 %. In five hundred days of Fialův's government, you've made it to 16.5% inflation, which was the third highest in the European Union, you're indebting the country the fastest from all the countries of the European Union, where you've noticed a drop to the eighth place. Also in the prosperity index you have fallen, we are currently, I believe, in the twelfth place and you have the highest drop in real wages from OECD countries, at this time it is -8.0 percent, which will not help even with proper valorizations, several years of seniors, when their pensions will not be compared to real wages. So congratulations, and I'm also asking that you no longer be arrogant at this microphone and tell us some fairy tales here, because all you have to do is pull the facts out of those fairy tales.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u130	The last one, with a factual remark, is Mr Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u131	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad Mr. Juchelka started here, at least in his own way, but at least say some facts. I just wanted to call on us to start talking again about the consolidation package and the individual facts instead of insulting each other. I'd have a lot of things to say here, too, but I'll save them for another time, because I think we need to calm down the atmosphere, and let's talk about what's bothering us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u132	Thank you. And here I have Mr Svoboda's point of fact and Mrs Mr Mračková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u133	Let me just use those strong words to all of you here, attack, blame yourself for lying, even use dirty words, those who say them know it well, so in the theory of psychology and human relationships and scientific theory, it is said that when a person does that, it means that his arguments are wrong, wrong and false. So remember, when you attack each other, you insult - it applies to all parties - that your arguments are lame! [[Strongly.]] It's just because you're replacing that lameness with the bruteness of your statement. But that's a general psychological theory. Try reading it in a medical high school textbook.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u134	That was the last point in fact so far and we are going back to the debate. And with priority rights, Vice-President Dostálová is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u135	Good evening. I have a little more to say, but since I didn't want to make any factual remarks, and I will speak in a very calm voice to calm the situation in the House, and instruct the doctor here, I will not use what I wanted to start with, Minister Bartoš: Shame does not slop you like an old punk. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Since my arguments are strong, Doctor, by your means, Mr President, I would therefore like to stop at the first point in the housing process. [[19.10 hours]] Minister, if you could tell us where you were cutting the tape recently? If it wasn't in Ústí nad Labem, where we built a rental apartment house from the money grant title of the Ministry of Regional Development under the name Construction? And what did you do with this grant title when you joined the Bureau? You canceled it. You canceled it! So the Construction program barely worked, the municipalities were preparing projects, a few of them were able to make it. We've been constantly editing the program so that it really suits the municipalities as much as possible. We put up superstructures, extensions, everything we could. As part of the construction programme, the municipality could benefit up to 20 percent of the apartments by a 100% subsidy, which roughly corresponds to 12 apartments. Of course, the people liked it, but to be fair, the Minister prepared a rental housing programme or available housing program this year, but there is only CZK 500 million for the municipalities, which is of course very little, and it is a credit product, but the municipalities will actually receive an interest rate of around 3%. Another programme that the Minister has successfully repealed is the youth programme. I would really like to know what this government has against young people. That's almost unbelievable. And there was a cooperative share in that youth program. We're all saying how we need to support cooperative housing, rental housing, and when we finally allowed young people to be helped by the state with the cooperative share, the Minister canceled it. I recommend, Minister, to return to this programme, to open the programme to promote a cooperative share for young people, and, of course, if you argue at an interest rate, young people can easily go under the de minimis regime. They'll never even get to that limit, and if it's too much for the Minister of Finance, then you can only give them interest subsidies, which, of course, will be no big money for the state budget. But that would really be something someone would have to do with the housing policy. For my management of the Ministry of Regional Development we had a programme Technical infrastructure for municipalities. Within this programme we helped municipalities invest land for subsequent housing construction. It is also important to note that when the housing issue was addressed for us, the mortgage interest rates were 1.9 to 2.1 %. It was clear, therefore, that young people are particularly interested in property housing, we have said so many times here, and within this they needed to speed up the construction process. Thus, our government has prepared a recodification of the building law, which you are again successful, that law, which obtained the title of the law of the year, has abolished, and thus we have come into a huge time frame, because it together with us, to be fair, prepared law will start to apply as far as 1. 7. 2024, if your resort can handle digitalization. And when you say there was no rental housing, that's what it's all about, because it's just an apartment building in Prague that takes five to eight years today. So please keep your feet on, because so far your government hasn't really done anything on this matter. But I'll get to that one more step at a time. I also handed you the brownfield revitalization program, and I'll keep my fingers crossed. I am not gloating, I really wish the Ministry of Regional Development success if it manages to identify the program for available housing, because public support has been very bothering us. We have all been compared to Austria as it is beautiful, but we cannot afford to program programmes without public support, because the Czech Republic has many so-called, as I should say, European Commission announcers and would certainly be prosecuted by the Czech Republic, unlike Austria. I just want to say, and I really want to go back to the tax package, and I'm never going to call it the recovery package, because that's completely nonsense. You just took the weakest of society, whether they're retired or citizens and especially young people. Rather, I would like to appeal to the fact that we really have common sense in such matters, to try to sit at that table, because even for the ANO movement, the plan to consolidate public finances is very important, but must not stop the economic growth of the Czech Republic, because it will have completely opposite effects. In fact, we have already prepared the plan in 2021, where we are counting on reducing the structural deficit by about half a percent of GDP per year. Such consolidation would then mean that we will not really slow down economic growth. In fact, our consolidation plan was based on several aspects. Mostly, we took care of the expense side. We never had the ambition to raise taxes to people. And I'm asking again and again because you're still going over the expense page where you're going to cut your expenses? In our consolidation plan, we wanted to reduce the amount of money for civil servants' salaries through the merger of agendas as a result of the sensible digitization of government administration, mergers and cancellations of agendas and the reduction of operating expenditure of individual chapters by between 5 and 10 %. Likewise, there must be an abolition of unnecessary ministries. And I'm so glad that one of you, the founders of the parties, who are in five-calice, points out that we have an incredible number of ministers here, and these agendas can actually do other resorts and that it's thrown money out the window. I'm sure you need to start on your own, too. I understand it's not big money, it could be hundreds of millions, maybe billions of lines, but it's kind of a symbolism to people that the government starts with each other. But there's no such thing. It's like the government really just said, it's not gonna touch us. That's why I used the expression: you preach water, but you drink wine. You have incredible apparatuses for your own advisors, especially party advisors, and the fact that the media is pointing out that every fourth pirát is paid out of state or public money is not something normal. We should all think about that, and I don't think that's the way you should go. For us, it was very important in our consolidation plan to increase tax collection, which means to build on the fact that taxes were actually collected successfully. And what do we read today and daily from economists in the media and so on? That you're just dropping your VAT. This is, of course, a huge problem, because you are trying to get these reserves out of the pockets of all people in the Czech Republic. You're helping the gray economy, and it doesn't really pay off. Public confidence in the tax system must also be strengthened, but how can they believe that when those who voted promised never to engage in taxes, and all citizens of the Czech Republic today see the effect of that promise. This means nothing is being filled, nothing is being paid here, something else is being said every month, and it really is very confusing for Czech citizens, and the noncommunicativeness of the government in this matter is alarming. It is also very important to me, and now I do not mean it badly, but it is really necessary to focus on drawing European funds. There's a huge amount of money being negotiated here, about CZK 980 billion, and everyone knows and already for Karel IV. hungry walls were being built when I compare it this way, that from the crisis it is necessary to invest, because each investment in the budget brings, of course, the feedback in the form of VAT and so on. I am still able to draw European funds on my own, but it is really important for me to accept such consolidation of public finances, which will not stop the Czech economy, but unfortunately I have to say that the five-calice is exactly the opposite. In spite of what I said earlier, the marketing campaign is really a negative effect on the whole company, because we're not talking about some small tax increase here. We are talking about the highest tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic, about 73 billion. However, I will not, of course, repeat the words that my colleague Alenka Schillerová has already said here or, of course, many others, because such things, which are from the macroeconomic point of view, are more hers. I would really like to address the issues which are my responsibility as Minister for Regional Development - the shadow minister for local development, where I need to share with you here some ideas that the Minister for Finance should actually consider. [[19.20 hours]] I'm going to start by raising the real estate tax that the proposed amendment is counting on. I will leave aside today whether there will be a change in the budgetary determination of taxes or not, because no one really seems to be clear on the basis of the media reports today. If there's an agreement with the Union of Towns and Towns, it's just an exchange for corporate tax versus increased real estate tax, but for citizens, it's a statement that the real estate tax will always be increased by that state coefficient, and that's what's going on here today. And I think that we really shouldn't go the way of raising real estate tax, we're supposed to leave it the way it is, because municipalities can use the coefficient up to five times, but municipalities don't use it. This means that if the municipalities themselves fail to achieve that they increase real estate tax in their territory, then why should the state in this way infer instead of leaving these things in the municipality as such. For me, the actual doubling of real estate tax today is quite outrageous. The increase in real estate tax due to the state coefficient to roughly double will affect the vast majority of Czech households - and it has already been said here. In a way, the Czech Republic is a phenomenon in the area of ownership housing. Just 80 percent of people live in their own housing, which means it touches basically the entire Czech population. Moreover, this increase in real estate tax is still being approached at the time of the historically highest decline in real wages in the modern history of the Czech Republic and at the same time in the period when the Czech Republic records the highest decline in real wages. Nor can it be accepted the argument that it is only an increase of hundreds of crowns. There are no hundreds of crowns. We really have to admit, and I have to say that a lot of fellow citizens in the e-mail told me that it's just incredible that they're paying real estate tax somewhere around CZK 4,000 today, because the community has been increasing, and so on and so on, and that really by the basic coefficient, which actually increases the base by multiple, that means once so much, they're actually going to get to the sum of somewhere between six and eight thousand crowns. But you have to realize that this applies, of course, to all those people who will be affected by all the other impacts related to this tax package. Real estate prices in the Czech Republic are really a major problem. We're in a housing crisis, I guess there's no dispute about that. In fact, the dream of ownership housing melts away every day for young people, and in the last decade real estate prices have grown significantly faster than wages. To buy an apartment in the Czech Republic today you need 15 annual wages, most of all from all countries of the European Union. The mortgage market has completely stopped or significantly stopped, the prices of construction works are growing dynamically. I don't know if the Minister visited protestors before the House today. I actually stopped by, talked to them, and they gave me this flyer, maybe you have it, too, this flyer. The leaflet says: "At present, the half-knock apartment in Prague costs CZK 20,000 a month. The alarming situation has long been limited to the metropolis, as the majority of the Czech Republic is struggling with a sharp price increase in real estate prices and rent increases. Up to 400,000 people are at risk of losing their homes. One quarter of all households suffer from excessive housing costs. Nevertheless, the responsible authorities still rely on the self-saveness of market solutions. Today's protest is an expression of opposition to ignorance and the lack of intensity with which the current government is dealing with the situation. We refuse to listen further to the fact that any regulation is not a priority and so on, while watching the increasing number of people affected by the housing crisis. Why are we protesting like this? If politicians intend to ignore the housing crisis further and deepen its impact, we have nothing left but to make it clear." They also proposed three solutions: to significantly extend the municipal housing fund to 30% by 2030. And here I have to agree with the Minister that we have talked about this several times, that the alpha and omega really is to build municipalities or the private sector. However, the private sector will always do so with the main objective of profit. Of course, the general sector could use its land, but also the state sector. Let's talk about a state developer or a municipal developer, whatever. It's just that we really need to knock down those prices. I even had a meeting with the Czech Banking Association, a very interesting topic, but it is a pity that Minister Bartoš does not talk to me about the law on available housing at all, because I think that we could work very intensively together, as well as on the construction law, and that there could be very good legislation in the finals, which would last here as well as other governments and not that another government will have to modify it, because the presented law on housing availability by the Minister is that we will again have an army of officials who will advise someone where to find housing when the municipalities themselves know that they do not have any money, so it is a wasted money and I am not surprised by the Minister of Finance here that he has given a negative opinion on this, because of course it is another management expenditure, and the Minister of Finance cannot logically agree with that. But to get back to the Czech Banking Association, we were talking about the model of how it works abroad, that basically there are certain non-profits or low-profit organizations that are actually doing the public service obligation, but with the minimal profit, and I think that would be the way for the private sector. For the municipalities, it is the cooperative housing that is very interesting, which means they will put the land at their disposal, but the cooperative must, of course, bring some salary to the cooperative and, here again, it could help to become a certain instrument to help this. And then there would be a very interesting topic that could address the law on affordable housing, and these are investment apartments. We just have to look at it, try to sit on it, try to find a suitable model for how to deal with these investment apartments, because of course - and today we were also debating it here, I don't want to point out anyone, name anyone, but it was a very interesting debate with coalition MPs that will build an apartment house in the village and buy it, of course, by Prague investors for further investment. And here it needs to be prevented, it is necessary to find the reasonable measure that is not yet and what is already an investment apartment. I tried to do it myself. I have to say, this is not an easy debate, because, of course, they're all going to come at you immediately, that it's the apartment of Grandma holding her children and so on and so on and so on. But the debate needs to be developed. And what I'm offering here for the opposition is that I'm ready to discuss it. I really do not need to be particularly political on this subject here, but I think it is necessary for the Czech Republic to contribute in some way to this. The third circuit these protesters wanted today is to increase the protection of the tenants against the sharp expensiveness and chaining of short-term rents. Well, of course, that's also a question of legislation, if it anchors it in any way. We already have in the Civil Code that really rents can only increase once every three years, but of course the inflation and so on there are other aspects. But unfortunately, the MMR itself has a one-year lease in its grant titles, so even as a state, it's not much of an example here, and again it's probably more of a debate on how to deal with these things. The absolute minimum principle of economic policy should be to do nothing to make housing availability even worse. And here I would argue that if you don't know how to do it, and for God's sake, you don't take any measures like raising real estate taxes, canceling building savings, God forbid, penalties for early mortgage payments. These are really all just imaginary nails to the coffin of the currently available housing itself. And I really regret to say that I do not see the Minister in any of the proceedings that this housing crisis is really terrible, and there is a need for a sensible speech with the Minister of Finance to support this housing. After all, these steps, which are announced by the Minister, do not suggest that the Ministry of Regional Development - and here I will be representing both the Ministry and the Minister - will collect CZK 2.8 billion from national subsidy programmes. So friends, the Ministry of Regional Development without European money has from the state budget for the entire operation of the Ministry including salaries and everything around CZK 3.1 billion, so if we take away their 2.8 then we can just wrap it up if it is not the Minister's way that it will only focus on digitization - 2.1 billion are national grant titles for this year. [[19.30 hours]] If I add that to this, and I get to that on my own, that the Minister wants to co-finance the transition regions and the more developed regions, so given how much the Ministry has poured in to co-financing from the state budget, that would be roughly CZK 400 million, so we still have half a billion left. Well, I'll read by then that for 2024 in the draft budget, Minister Bartoš is going to lose CZK 13.6 billion, so I guess the Minister will sell the old man's house so he can comply with the minister, because otherwise it's just not possible. And in all this, we are talking about not drawing European funds. What do you think I'm gonna read again? That the Minister of Finance wants to take away Minister Bartoš 940 officials. So I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether he will be managing it himself in the finals or what the European funds in the finals are meant to be. For me, then, as I have already said, taxation or higher real estate tax is unacceptable, and perhaps this subject, before I get to building savings, I would probably end with the sentences made by the Minister of Finance himself before the elections. So, before the election, Minister Stanjura proudly refused to increase real estate tax, and now I quote, having a place to live is not a luxury. We reject higher real estate taxation. The state must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and the family. We won't allow an increase in real estate tax. So, folks, what do we have in the tax package? Well, of course we'll admit it. So, of course, the problem of raising real estate tax will arise primarily in a less economically efficient part of the population, which will have to bear the increase in this tax. And it's not just about ownership. As soon as you have the apartments you rent, someone's gonna raise your tax, so what are you gonna do? You're going to project it into the lease, so of course we're going to increase the rental housing itself, and that's a very antisocial step. So I would ask the Minister of Finance in relation to real estate taxes to keep his words - to have a place to live, it's not a luxury. So much for real estate tax, I guess. The other moment that picked me up a little bit on this tax package, which is why I also called it that robber package is the system or the abolition of building savings. The construction savings system has been a proven system for decades, which is advantageous for both the state and the citizens. Citizens were very motivated to do so, and we all know that even though grandchildren were born, of course grandmothers, grandpas, moms, daddies liked to contribute to their offspring's construction savings, so that the young ones could have something to begin with. In fact, people also made a provision for future housing, and this product was available to the general public. I don't know anyone who doesn't know the construction savings system. The relative availability of this product has caused its social popularity and five-calices, instead of considering possible adjustment and fine-tuning, I am talking here, for example, about fine-tuning the purpose, so that only those who really invest in housing, whether reconstruction, modernization, construction, it is absolutely one thing, and maybe, of course, see that State aid does not need to be given to people with above-average incomes, that it should simply be for that part of the population that really needs State support in some way to help. In order to maintain the attractiveness of the building savings, the five-wheel drive should equal the level of support for inflation, but unfortunately, this is not happening either. Instead of focusing on solving current problems, the five-wheelers are working on problems for the future, and there is still the issue of the retroactivity of this proposal, but that is certainly not what my colleague Patrik Nacher, through you, will be talking about, so obviously I will not go into the details so that we do not repeat ourselves here, that is certainly not my goal. I would like to go into the housing business before I go to European funds, because I really have a lot to say, so I'd like to ask the Minister what those young people did to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u136	I'm going to interrupt you, colleague, and I'm going to ask everyone present in the room to calm down, the intensity of the rush is high, and you could continue to calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u137	Thank you, Madam President, I can take my voice down again. So I'd really like to know what the young people did to the five-calice or the current government. I really can't figure it out anymore, so I'm just gonna try to recap here what you've actually accomplished with all the steps you've taken. You have, in fact, increased the VAT rate for almost everything related to the area of housing. Water, sewerage, energy, medicines, property tax, you collect building savings, you cancel kindergarten fees, you cancel the discount on your wife, on your husband, public transport you get more expensive, infant food is at a higher rate of VAT, medicines. I'm sure you, Minister, will argue that you have reduced the cost of building a family home. Well, I wonder, Mr. Secretary, on the terms of who's gonna build this family house here if the mortgages are unavailable. So it certainly doesn't fit exactly as opposed to the pole of increasing the costs of a normal young family. These mortgages as such are actually very largely unavailable, and I have to say that we have also tried to declare in some way what we would do in the area of housing to help young people. We can think of multigenerational mortgages as we want, but if the Ministry of Regional Development can do grant programs to support rental housing with state guarantee, there is no reason not to deal with multigenerational mortgage with state guarantee. But to be fair, I also dealt with this with the Czech Banking Association, and we eventually leaned towards the model that is common in Western countries, for example, it is widely used in Switzerland, where a young family, if of course, starts a family, mom is home with a child, then there is only one salary plus a mother's, so in Switzerland these young people can pay for the period of child education, for example, before they go to primary school, only interest and the principal will be paid only after this critical time. This would, of course, be very helpful for young people because they would bridge - we have roughly 45 to 55, which means that 45 per cent is the interest, and if you take it, on the large amount, when young people now normally pay 25 to 30 000 for the payment, when they would actually pay only 45 per cent of it, then, of course, at a difficult time, when all prices, including housing costs, such as energy, aqueous, coiled, would help them. We would certainly like to work together on this very cooperative housing, in order for both the state and the municipalities to make suitable land available. I know that the Minister has the State Office in property matters, where he can, of course, define these land. I would also like to know what it will be like with abandoned Czech Post objects, whether it could also be converted for state money or with the help of municipalities, after all it is in specific cities, just for rental housing itself. It is also very important for us to open the multigenerational houses, I have also talked about it, but the Minister has all this information from me and I would really like it if we were finally able to look for the common path and simply accommodate a lot of families in that we can really help them with their accessible housing. And nowadays, at these mortgage rates, where every young family is really trying to do their best to find a cheaper product on the market, so come up with the fact that you're going to fine them for early repayment, I really think that's outrageous. And I have to ask, in this context, because I'm not really upset about why these young people all the stuff I've been saying to you, you're just doing if he can't be behind this, and I'm sorry to the Minister, but I have to ask. We all warned about banks under the windfall tax. You put them there, and now it feels a little bit like liking those banks, that in return, they're gonna give you something under the windfall tax, so you're gonna take it back from those people for the early mortgage payment. I hope that is not the case and that you will really think about this idea once again, because I think that the cuts, what you are doing to these young people now, that he is really already calling to heaven. [[19.40 hours]] Another topic I would very much like to address is the drawing of European resources. I'm gonna really -- and now I mean it, too, honestly -- keep my fingers crossed to make it work. But it doesn't look like it yet. I'm glad we had a little chat with the Minister and no obligation upstairs. I would like to get the Minister of Regional Development to do this again, because for us, the statistics on the draw have always been to the 10th at the most. Today we have July 12th, and the numbers are still not on the website of the Ministry of Regional Development within the National Coordination Authority. So, of course, I can tell you what the situation is at the end of May, because, of course, the May figures are already there. And when I add it up, because it is necessary to look at the old programming period, that means 2014 to 2020, the new programming period 2021 to 2027, and the National Recovery Plan, the sum of this money that literally lies on the pavement, but the state does not tell the European Commission about it, whether it is because the National Recovery Plan does not follow those projects, or it is because it is not certified, for example, every month, but on the level here I say that we talked about it with the Minister a short time ago and that he himself says that they are already certifying every month, that of course it will now be significantly reflected in the state budget. Well, the current situation is 116 billion to that point in June. And then you can't blame yourself if there's 116 billion lying on the sidewalk that nobody asks for, and next to that, you take kindergarten fees. It's just really like absurdistan, it's just tiny, versus huge billions that the government can ask for. We understand, of course, that the situation in the drawing of European funds is not easy. It should be noted that rule n+3 applies and that means that all projects must be certified by the Ministry of Finance for the period 2014 to 2020 until 31. 12. 2023. These payments may subsequently come from the commission a few months later. But the act itself must be asked for those European funds by the end of the year. Then we have the period 2021 to 2027, where the eligibility of expenditure is from 1. 1. 2021, so I don't really understand why it's not pumping. Why don't we call why, for example, the Minister, who has a huge overhang in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme for Schools, kindergartens, now, of course, the announced challenge is precisely for those interests where there are also small ones, so the IROP can be pre-warned. And believe me, Minister, I know what I'm talking about. I've been through a lot of programming, and it's like a copycat. There's just big eyes in the beginning, big ambitions, but then it turns out they don't pump all the operating programs the way they thought they would. And the government is here to explain to ministers that it is not their money, that it is not the money of industry or education, or that it is the money of the Czech Republic, and it is necessary to make meaningful use of it for prepared projects. Because it's the projects that are ready, if they end up in a drawer, it's obviously wasted money, especially for cities, municipalities and regions, because they invested a lot of money in the project documentation. On the contrary, the State should encourage all these projects to emerge as quickly as possible in the implementation, so, of course, VAT will be refunded and so on. And the funds 2021 to 2027 also have the n+3 rule, which means the money allocated by the European Commission in 2021 you have to spend and by 2024 and so it goes on, of course. It is also necessary to prepare for the fact that when the period ends in 2027, this is the last possibility of so-called transfers of money between operational programmes. After this deadline, you can really only transfer money within one program. For me, it is completely incomprehensible why, when the government itself analyzes the drawdown of European funds, it puts it on the government. I understand, of course, that if it's material just for information, it doesn't always get to ministers. But as part of this material, it is quite hard to say that the state is dealing with so-called risk projects. Those risk projects, they're roughly 323, worth CZK 20.7 billion. And I really wonder what you're doing with these high-risk projects, what's going to happen to them. Because when I look at the detail of drawing individual operating programs and I know that as hard as it is, I really spend my whole life doing it, so I can read well in those tables, so obviously the worst drawer has an Integrated Regional Operational Programme, but now please don't take it as a criticism. It must also be taken into account that the Ministry of Regional Development within the framework of the RACT-EU has received even more money and so on and so on. But this program just needs to be targeted explicitly and the Ministry of Aid. And it's impossible, Minister of Finance, for you to say in your second breath that you're going to take 940 people away from them. Well, who's gonna manage it? This is really the money of the Czech Republic and it is necessary to help the Ministry for Regional Development and therefore I need to, I will not criticize the increase of officials right now for the implementation of European funds exactly at the Ministry for Regional Development. But we have roughly $20.7 billion in the air here, and you yourself in the material admit that it's probably not gonna all work out. Because unfortunately, even if we can divide these projects by the so-called phase rate between two programming periods, well, for some things like that, for example. The hospital and so on, the program doesn't follow up anymore. That means the beneficiary is before the decision is made if he can't make it, whether he's going to fund it himself, or how it's going to be, and this money is actually falling into your pocket. So also, the question is, do you have any quick-circuit challenges to help you pump it up? Because you yourself in this material are talking about not getting about 5 billion crowns. So much for European funds. I'd like to stop at two things, and the first is national subsidies. Because when I read your material carefully, page 247, I didn't learn much, so I need some lighting from the Minister of Finance. So the state has ambitions to save 54 billion on grant programs. About 48 billion in 2024, 9 billion in 2025. Of course, I have to ask where you want to save it. Well, you put the platypus in there, I wonder what you mean by the Ministry of Regional Development, because it's absolutely incomprehensible to me there. I suppose one of the sources will be the change in co-financing in those European funds. And here I would like to draw attention to what is about to happen to the House of Honor. Because when I did an analysis of how many mayors we have here in the regions that are so-called transition regions, and here I think it deserves a little bit of an explanation, because I understand that not all of our colleagues and colleagues are in the detail of the European resources. So just so you know, the Czech Republic is divided into so-called nomenclature units, or NUTS 2. That means southeast, southwest, Central Bohemia, Moravian-Silesian, Northeast and so on, we just have seven of them. And we, as a government, have suggested that the Czech Republic should be divided into categories of less developed and developed. Less developed would mean that they are all regions of the Czech Republic except Prague. Prague will always be the highly developed one, because really the GDP average is somewhere around 250, so it's clearly there. Unfortunately, the position of government, then our government, overruled the Senate. And the Senate did three categories of regions in the Czech Republic. That means less developed, transition and highly developed ones. Personally, as Minister, I went to President Vystrčil and warned him that if this happened, the regions would be very disadvantaged and that it would be related to his Highlands. To be really careful, I was talking to him that straight. Unfortunately, I was unsuccessful, Mr. Senator told me at the time that it seemed fairer to him. [[19.50 hours]] But, of course, at the time it was with the Minister of Finance that it was really unfair to the regions in the Czech Republic, because those less developed are entitled to European funds of 85 percent. Those transition regions at 70 per cent of European resources and the more developed at 40 per cent only. It was agreed with the Ministry of Finance that it was really unfair, because the Senate simply overruled the position of government and we perceived it because of the development of all regions as unfair, so the so-called methodology of financial flows was prepared, where the state budget matched those transition regions with a budget of 15 percent, so that they would also be entitled to 85. And that is now the subject of the Minister of Finance's material, where he writes that he will take that share of the state budget from the transition regions and the highly developed regions. I wonder, then, if I look at Vysočina here, what about, for example, Mrs Bělohlávková's representative and so on, or of course, it will also affect the Pilsen Region, Mr Bernard, Mrs Bačíková, Mrs Decroix, and so on, I could further name it, I have been doing it here. I wonder how you're gonna stand up in front of your community and say sorry like, uh, our finance minister, plus all the coalition mayors and councillors, decided to take the money away from us. This means the municipality, when it's planning a project, preparing loans, suddenly discovers that it's going to have 15 percent, sometimes even more, because, for example, it's going to have 15 percent. for schools, etc. there was even more money from the state budget, so that the co-financing for the basic education was only needed to amount to 5, max. 10 per cent. So this money will be taken away from you, my dear mayors and representatives, and I assume that these are the resources that the minister is talking about in part in the 54 billion. And then, logically, I have to keep asking. We have a period, the programme period 2014 to 2020 will not touch it, because we are ending here in December, so it will touch the programming period 2021 to 2027, where we of the European funds have around CZK 480 billion at our disposal. Of this, the state budget, estimated, is roughly CZK 67.6 billion. And of these CZK 67.6 billion is about 61 percent, which means CZK 41.9 billion for the organizational units of the state. That means, they're state projects, that's where the state budget just has to be funded like the future beneficiary. This means that it will actually take place roughly, and I am now talking about everyone, not just the transition regions, if the minister just hit the table, so it is roughly some 25.9 billion state budget in addition to funding from European sources, which will be lost by municipalities, regions, cities. And now I'm wondering, if I look at the detailed numbers of this drawing as such, it should be said that for this period 2021 to 2027, for example, the Ministry of Regional Development, which will be most relevant because it is a programme for regions, cities and municipalities, so it is entitled to next year or for this year, 802 million crowns. If I take the ratio that roughly, even the Minister has the state's organizational units there, of course, that it's going to be some 60 over 40, those regions are going to lose 300 to 400 million. Of course, that's no big money. The Minister may argue that he will take it from the medium term perspective. Well, Minister, you don't have much there. For 2024 you have CZK 614 million in the medium term for co-financing from the state budget, CZK 614 million for 2025 as well. And once again, you have to take it with the ratio, because state projects have to be paid at 100%, so of course, you don't take much from the municipalities. So I would really like to know what the 13,6 billion are made of, because when I look at the Ministry of Regional Development, it has put 3.1 billion crowns on its national grant titles in the medium term. If you know, Minister, that the Minister has already announced calls for the entire allocation, which ran from about 6 April to 5 June and from 2 May to 5 June 2023. They were subsidy programmes for local communication, reconstruction and reconstruction of public buildings, and one for municipalities up to 3,000 and one for municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants. The Minister already has the demand, the demand is about 1 940 projects for CZK 6.5 billion, the allocation of the call is 2.356 and the overhang is CZK 4.2 billion. And I ask again, wouldn't it be more reasonable to actually go the way that the crisis is supposed to invest so that the impact on the state budget is actually better? I don't want to point out how we tried to invest, investments were really a major priority for us, so sometime since 2018, when I took over the Ministry, because we started there in December 2017, so in 2018, it was around 22 billion on the spending side of the MMR, but 2019 was already 27.4 billion, in 2020 31,5 billion, in 2021 32.1 billion. Then actually, Minister Bartoš came along and it's coming down again. 2022 - 28 billion crowns, entitlement in budget 2023 - 22 billion. And I'd rather not even talk about 2024. Perhaps it would be worth remembering here what the national grant titles of the Ministry of Regional Development are. First of all, the minister has money for the elements. And given what's going on in nature, I think that this grant title should be significantly increased because they are actually struggling, and I repeat again, there are no private investments at the Ministry of Regional Development, no entrepreneurs, nothing like that. The Ministry supports municipalities and regions. No one else. And the non-profit sector, for example, in the preparation of barrier-free communities. We have community homes for seniors in the area of housing, once again a program that was founded for my era, but I am glad that in some way both KoDusy, that means community houses for seniors and nursing homes continue. But there's a $250 million allocation. Then, of course, here we have the National Recovery Plan, the brownfields, where the subsidy from the National Recovery Plan is about 1.4 billion. The Minister wants to spend 800 million on available housing, of which 500 million for municipalities and 300 million for the private sector. Tourism 140 million, barrier-free municipalities 15 million. And then there's the rural renewal and development programme, which includes local communication, public buildings, sports grounds and so on, and that's what the allocation for this year is about CZK 1 billion. So let me look at it from the left, from the right, and it can't even argue with the failed program of Ukraine, which the minister basically received virtual money, the program didn't go well, the maximum amount of CZK 250 million was exhausted, and the minister transferred the money to the MPSV, so they're basically not on the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development. I hope that the Minister also sees it here a little bit as defending the Ministry of Regional Development, because MMR really is an investment department, it should help municipalities, because the state takes away from them the financing of projects, basically replaced by Mr.Lukl, that is incomprehensible to me, for actually a share of corporate entities, so he traded it for a real estate tax. Well, that's a question, because, of course, the community's costs, whether they're waste, energy, etc. they are growing, so I think that they will use this money from citizens to spend their mandatorial expenses, and there may be a problem with the co-financing of both European projects and national projects. I'm getting close to the conclusion, I think I've already said everything that's bothering me here, everything that's affecting the Ministry of Regional Development's agenda. For me, it's very important that the consolidation of public finances doesn't really strangle the economic growth so that it doesn't increase as much as the five-callices do, so that it can be done effectively, through gradual digitalisation, and here we would all really applaud if we could do some projects like we did, such as eRecipe and so on. But if European money were to be drawn, if it were to be invested, you would certainly find a hearing with the opposition as well. But unfortunately, that's not the case. For me, the tax package, as it is prepared, is totally unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u138	We have two applications for actual notes. Minister Bartoš will appear first, Mr Bernard will be prepared. I'm just pointing out that a hundred crowns have been found in the foyer, which I don't think is an excellent report when discussing the consolidation package. [[Fun in the hall.]] If no one checks in within the hour, I'll hand over a hundred crowns to the Treasury Secretary to reduce state debt. [[Cheer and applause in the hall.]] Minister, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u139	Thank you for the floor. In fact, I would only respond to the attack that keeps repeating itself here. I'm just going to show two graphs, and then I'm going to sign up with a priority right to perhaps comment on some of the things, especially about housing or criticism, which is pointing at my head at the moment, although the housing crisis here has been rampant since the 1990s, when most of the property of the municipalities was gradually privatised and the municipal construction did not start. Only on the matter that Mr Babiš here repeats, who left us after his speech, but Mrs Klára Dostálová repeated it. Like I'd say. This graph is the share of political mandates against the number of party members. [[It's showing a graph to the hall.]] The Pirate Party has a comparable number of members - lower thousands - with other movements, for example. However, we have succeeded in the elections by having 33 percent of the people in mandate positions when we are talking about who is elected. At the same time, it is often operated on how much pirát take money from the public budget. We're talking about how many pirát it is. That way the public budget can be the functions chosen from the mandate. There the reward is determined by the law, such as Members, Vice-Presidents of the House, Ministers and others. Then it could be other positions. When we look at the number of public paid posts, and at the Pirate Party - and we transparently show both the revenues that we have from the performance of our political functions, but even our assistants here in the House - however, the members of the Pirate Party in public paid posts are 395. Since the ANO movement, there's been a criticism that it's 2 022. That is the number of public-paid functions of the ANO movement. It doesn't say anything, it's an election success or a number of functions you can occupy. But please don't operate in public space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u140	[[Change of chair.]] Thank you. I warmly greet all present. As far as the debate is concerned, I have two factual points, Mr Bernard's application for a factual one and then Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u141	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, Mrs Dostálová, through you, Madam President, you turned the knife in my wound. Because I, as Governor of the Plzeň Region in 2017, visited your predecessor Mrs Šlechtová and asked her urgently twice, once in writing, once in person, to think about the NUTS structure. I suggested restructuring NUTS so that South Bohemia and Vysočina and the Pilsen Region and the Karlovy Vary Region join together. We had statistical data back then that clearly showed that we would have avoided this problem, that we had gotten into those higher territorial administrative units, with higher GDP per capita, so we would have avoided it. So I told your predecessor, we had time to modify this, I had designs from Poland, how NUTS was adjusted in Poland, but unfortunately I was not heard. I've been asked by you, so I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u142	Thank you for keeping time. With another de facto Mr Patrik Nacher. [[Ambassador Nacher is still sitting on the bench.]] The MP is either preparing himself... please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u143	Madam Vice-President, thank you. Well, I didn't want to react. I'm looking forward to my performance, and I hope the Minister will be here so he can respond to me later. But now I'm responding to Minister Bartoš, because what he said here is a manipulation that I've already responded to when your Štěpka Štěpek posted it, as I've been able to find quickly. The problem is that you have to count it to the percentage profit you have in the election. So if I put this completely absurdly, if I set up an entity and I get zero percent, then I'm gonna brag about having zero people who are being paid out of state or public budget. How does that make sense, this? The criticism towards the pirát is that you have, for example, four MPs, three ministers, 10 deputy ministers. This means that the number of those public functions is inconsistent with the percentage profit of those mandates you have obtained. You can't compare it to someone who got it, I don't know, in a communal in some cities 30 percent. Well, logically, he's going to take 30 percent of those elected functions. That's one point. So we're talking percentage, not quantity, absolute numbers. The second point is that the difference between elected officials - the mayor, the MP and the like - and appointed ones - these are the Deputys, for example - that makes a significant difference. You'll accept that. Because someone has to name this deputy, and it's for some credit, and we're elected here. It's like you're blaming us for 72 of us and there's only four of you. So you're going to save 18 times the state budget for a Member's salary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u144	Thanks for keeping time. I'll reload my apologies. Apologies to Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 19.30 hours for family reasons, Minister Pavel Blažek from 20 hours for work reasons. I have here in writing a report of Mr Radim Fiala's apology from 20 o'clock for personal reasons. Ivan Bartoš, Minister, is now making a point of fact. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u145	I must say, through Madam President, I like Mr Patrik Nacher's performances. Okay, so it's gonna be the designated positions, huh? So if we had, I don't know, nine or ten, how many of those undersecretaries and those Pirates are 1,200, you're 2,200, so it doesn't work out how many pirát are in paid positions. Do the math. Now how does politics work? You guys had 27,12 percent in those last elections, yeah. So, from the logic of the matter, half of this ensemble of your ministers should sit here and not sit there, right? You have the Vice-President and Vice-President of the House. So what logic do you use in this? If you have four MPs and negotiate a coalition, logically, you have some part in that coalition on the basis of a coalition agreement and negotiation. That's perfectly normal. If you had made a government with someone in the elections after the victory, you would have just sort of put it together, through Madam President. You can't use one metric, then the other metric. Please explain to me the logic of the calculation that Mrs Dostálová said here that a third of the pirát benefit from paid functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u146	Thank you, too. Unsurprisingly, with a point of fact, Mr Patrik Nacher, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u147	Thank you. Well, I wanted to perform. I'm a little sorry about Marek Benda, who just visited us here because we're supposed to be talking about the consolidation package, and we're dealing with these things here. Let's do it again. You, Minister, are spreading it despite your own members. This is where your colleague Štěpka Štěpka wrote. We have a 4% minority, like ha, ha, ha, fun. Then there's a graph of how you only have 395 publicly paid functions, while KDU-ČSL has 3 944, ODS 2 464. So you actually directed the criticism to KDU and ODS. ANO has 2 022 and it's third. You're actually bragging about having the least functions. But you have to put it, damn it, in proportion to the election profit. I don't know how to say this anymore. Not to the absolute number. As for the 30%, let Vice-President Dostálová explain it to you. But as far as the Deputys are concerned - I have said this several times here, you must admit - you have made those Deputys artificially purely because they did not become Members. They weren't prepared for the role of deputy, they're not qualified deputy. If you hadn't been jumped by the bullies, there'd be MPs among us. But because they jumped you, you made them vice presidents. Logically, it bothers us because it was always the pirát, who especially in Prague and then at that national level criticized all other political parties for collecting functions. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u148	Thank you. With the de facto Minister Ivan Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u149	I just want to respond. Like you, we now have a shadow government when we were going to the government, although the result was a little different than we expected as a coalition of the Pirates and STAN, so we introduced a so-called government team. So look who the people in the positions they did in the House - I was chairman of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, ergo hammer, then voted for this ministry. So the people who went as pirát to the deputy position were in most cases members of a government team or were delegated in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u150	Thank you. And the discussion also called for an application with a factual remark from Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u151	Thank you very much. I'd just like us to go back to the consolidation package. So it's 51 or 50 applications. I am the 43th, and I would also like to say my position to Mr Stanjur in terms of the consolidation package of social policy, pro-family policy and so on, but unfortunately, because we cannot count on the number of pirate deputys, it is moving on. I would ask that my colleague Pastuchová be able to get some room for her to start the 50 minutes of debate here, and I ask very much that we really look at what is important, and that is the consolidation package. Because it is nothing more than an increase in our citizens' spending on CZK 73 billion. So I'm ready for that, and I hope we get back to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u152	Thank you. However, before those entered on the electronic board, I have an application to present the opinion of the SPD MP. Mr Jan Hrnčíř is authorized to deliver this position. And then I have, I'm just recapitulating, an application with the Prime Minister's priority right. So it's still going to be now. Do you want to go first? You can take, you were the first one here, so yes, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u153	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to comment on the so-called consolidation and austerity package to which the government intends to heal, one must say a really scary swelling deficit in our country's state budget. It must be acknowledged that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has not yet been able to find an effective solution, which, among other things, proved to be an absolutely poorly set budget for 2023 when he reached a record deficit of CZK 271 billion in May, with an approved budget with a maximum deficit of CZK 295 billion for this year. Clearly, it is necessary to change the government's behaviour and seek effective solutions before the government coalition leads our country to state bankruptcy. I therefore appreciate that this government has realized this and has begun to work on remedying it. Unfortunately, that is almost all I appreciate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u154	Yes, I can see your request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u155	For, unfortunately, as it is customary for this government, decent workers, families with children, small businessmen and, unfortunately, pensioners will pay the most for its mismanagement. I watched, by the way, with complete horror, the government's statement, which said with satisfaction that more and more people and families would reach welfare benefits. The fact that this mark of complete failure is considered a success by the government is shocking to me. Colleagues from the government coalition, don't you realize that the still increasing amount of social benefits paid is one of the main culprits of our country's dramatically growing deficit? After all, the aim of every sensible government is precisely the opposite, namely the largest share of workers and entrepreneurs who pay taxes to the state budget. On the contrary, minimize the payment of social benefits and thus minimise the burden on the state budget. So any sensible government would try to configure a tax benefit system so that, simply speaking to people, it doesn't pay to stay home on welfare. What did you do? The opposite. One of the so-called savings should also be the cancellation or reduction of tax benefits, namely the reduction of tax discounts on the spouse, the abolition of kindergarten fees, the cancellation of the student tax discount, the abolition of the exemption of non-cash benefits for employees and the abolition of the exemption of over-limit meal vouchers. Another expected step would be to increase the support of businessmen and entrepreneurs so that they are paid to do business and thus to pay taxes to the state budget. What did you do? It's the opposite again. Small businessmen and businessmen are now at risk. Those who have survived the covideo period, scythes and scythes high energy prices and high inflation. You promised them you wouldn't let them fall? And what do you really do? You intend to increase their contributions, i.e. payments whose advances are required to be paid every month regardless of whether they earn even 10 crowns in it or not at all. This is just another step towards the complete liquidation of Czech small and medium-sized enterprises, while the businessmen you destroy will go and claim social benefits. So instead of increasing revenue to the state budget, the deficit will rise a little bit again. Absolutely absurd is your so-called pension reform, i.e. an effort to skin the most vulnerable group of people. People who have worked honestly all their lives and paid benefits to ensure a dignified old age are now presented to you almost as parasites who are illegally draining the state budget. These people have built a state that you are now exhilarating, and instead of saying thank you, I hear sighs of how much money it costs to feed them. The so-called reduction in the valorisation of pensions is only a grand name for ordinary theft. It is not these people's fault that you cannot control inflation, so do not punish them by denying them what is rightfully theirs. To increase property tax, I'll just deliver a tiny gloss. Part of your election campaign was a promise that taxes and property taxes will not be increased, but you have also been chasing around because the whole property tax is actually immoral, because people buy their flats or houses for once taxed money, which I agree with. As you also know, an ever larger group of people are unable to pay off mortgage-credit liabilities; to increase their property tax now is just another one of your double-crosses. I have now briefly summarised some of the reservations I have on your consolidation package. Of course, we will be making a number of amendments under the SPD, as it is clear that it is necessary to put pressure on the emergency brake before it becomes a debt brake. I just want to make one more point. With your proposal, you are eating away seniors, businessmen, entrepreneurs, and decent working families with children. You expect them to understand everything, because times are bad. However, it is appalling that, at the same time, you are not thinking at all about reducing or revoking Ukraine's financial support when it is absolutely unclear where and how it ends. You should really think about what government you really are and whose interests you are defending. In my opinion, these are certainly not the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u156	Thank you. And I would just say that he was... Excellent. [[Subscribed Minister Stanjura enters the hall.]] The Minister of Finance has now signed up with priority rights. Please, you can take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u157	So I wasn't here once for 10 minutes, and it was a break. I want to respond to Vice-President Klára Dostálová's speech, but I will still be here, even if she isn't here. I hope he can hear me somewhere. Madam Secretary spoke of housing, how little is built. As if the YES movement had not been in opposition for eight years, in government as if it had been in opposition for eight years! Then I'd understand. Often opposition representatives complain that the government is talking about what was done. Well, we're not starting with that. Most of the show is a hymn to what it was, and a criticism to what it was. I understand, it's a normal struggle between government and opposition. But let's just say, was this place a good place to go to 2021? By December 2021 and the problem arose in January 2022? Is that true? It's not. I'm not the one who says it's all the government's fault, it doesn't matter, any government. The only thing we can do for this, as legislators, is to speed up the building process by changing the rules. I don't believe that saving new housing houses is a community. I really don't think so. However, the Ministry of Finance portfolio includes communication with the Czech Banking Association or the Czech Insurance Association. And for the Vice-President - we have been working with them for more than a year and we are just before the pilot projects of available housing are launched. We're not at zero. You didn't do anything in eight years. Among other things, so that we can run these pilots, we need a price map, because we're going to say that the principle of affordable housing is that the rent is going to be about 80 percent in the usual place. Then we need to know what it is. We don't. Why didn't we inherit it? Why didn't we inherit a functional price map that we're just going to update? [[20.20 hours]] I think there's a simple answer: because there isn't one. We are working very hard on this in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Regional Development and I believe that we will present the results very quickly. It'll be the first working price map. Then we launch pilot projects to make it interesting for financial institutions. First of all, they don't need such quick profits. Secondly, and let's not think of it as a phrase, he feels some sort of social responsibility. And thirdly, the state will put in this project free of charge land that we already have, and so we will allow it to have some economic rationality, because under normal conditions, to build and 80 percent rent, it doesn't work out for you. [[unintelligible]] You can't get anybody to do that. So we're not at zero. If it weren't for such a grueling criticism, I wouldn't even talk about it and wait until we were able to present concrete pilot projects. But I wanted to say that teams of people have been working on this for quite a long time in cooperation with both the Czech Banking Association and the Czech Insurance Association. And the models are different. And we just want to try both of these models in pilot mode. One's closed, one's open. But I think there'll be plenty of time for a detailed debate when we're ready to present the results and pilot projects with our partners. Now, let's talk about the involvement. The Minister of Finance will take it, he'll cross it out. I don't know how that worked for you. That, of course, is the government's decision. I'm the treasury administrator, not the treasury ruler. Yeah? That's a big difference. If it were always so that the government would accept the position of the Treasury Department or the Treasury Secretary, I would be happy. But I'm a realist, of course I'm not. And it is my job, and you said it right, Madam Vice-President, to draw attention to the emergence of new mandatorial expenses, twice, three times to check whether the new expenditure of the state budget is in place of whether it is effective. And that's certainly not an activity that's somehow popular. But somebody has to do it. I volunteer, and I like doing it. And now for the involvement. I've got the tablet in front of me, I'll try... The numbers you gave are basically correct. We're talking about 4,9 billion, possible savings. So let's see how it is today. We have hundreds of billion-dollar deficits, and we are borrowing to send the 4.9 billion to those transition and highly developed regions. At the same time, the beneficiaries have 400 billion in their accounts. If it were the other way around, municipalities and regions had to borrow and the state was in surplus, it has logic. We're gonna have to borrow some money to be a part of it. And I think the proposal we agreed on in the government coalition is reasonable and correct. It was not us who determined which region would receive European money. 85, 70, 40. We're talking about the share of national resources. Yes, the proposal is to increase the recipient's share. But let's face it, if the share is 5%, just 5%, aren't these projects done just because the share is so low? An increase of 20 percent, maybe? I consider it healthy for the candidate to consider it. But the simple question is, is the state really supposed to borrow to increase this state budget participation when, on the other hand, the beneficiaries are in better financial condition than the state? It doesn't make any sense to me. If it were the other way around, it would make sense, of course. And we'll talk about it another time. But when the Vice-President mentioned it, I could lose a few words about it. I rule out, and I really rule out, and I beg you, and don't take it personally that we're paying someone back for some of our moves. Like you said, I hope it's not true that you're doing something to the banks for windfall. Well, of course it's not true!. If anybody thinks of it, I have a similar Czech saying: I judge you in my opinion. And I was talking about it, we've already talked about it in an interpellation, because the proposal isn't new. In the last parliamentary term, your Member has proposed 3% on early repayment. And a colleague here, Patrik Nacher, responded with a counterproposal, where he proposed 1.5 percent. So the government version that comes in here is 2 percent. We can say, I can print it right away, House prints have numbers, but it's not an object. And that question is similar to that of an accomplice. It's obvious the clients will pay for it. No one else will pay for it. And the conflict of opinion or the dispute is whether all the clients will pay for it or only those who will migrate. Moreover, in this proposal we are expanding the situation of life, and it was also in Mr Nacher's proposal, there is no reason not to admit it or not to say it, it is not that I always read, the Minister admitted it, I say it, I admit nothing. Why would I admit it? Criminals admit it, don't they? - when they committed something. This is how we extend life situations where free repayment is permitted by law. It continues to apply that 25% of the original principal free of charge is accepted by anyone who takes the mortgage. And for the inflation debate, that's over and over again. When inflation was under your government, your ministers said nothing, it was the CNB. Today's governor accidentally wrote his comments to the press from the holding company and says, if you want to call anyone names for inflation, call me names, I'm on the Bank Board, that's the responsibility of the Czech National Bank, not that government. Now let's switch benches. I said at the time that the CNB's primary responsibility and partial responsibility were to the government. And that's true. I have the same opinion, even though I traded the opposition bench for government. You're the one who's changing the bench. [[unintelligible]] Suddenly it's the government's fault, not the CNB? And why didn't it apply to your government? What happened? Except that the government has a different political composition. How is it that once for inflation only and exclusively the CNB is responsible for the submission of ANO representatives, and for the second time it is primarily and mainly the Fialův Government? I'm consistent. I say all the time, the main share of responsibility is legal at the Czech National Bank. That's pretty obvious. It's not that it's an interpretation or an opinion. By law! And I'm applying to the government's responsibility. That is why we are coming up with a plan to reduce the deficit of the state budget so that we can fulfil our share of the responsibility of inflation as a government. Yes, you're right, VAT collection for the first half is lower than we planned. But that's a tax on declining inflation. At the same time, you cannot expect declining inflation and rising consumption. I can't do that! And if I have to choose from whether to reduce inflation or raise VAT revenues for me, I say, to reduce inflation. I think it's better for the economy, and it's better for the state budget. You are very fond of talking about how inflation increases the revenue of the state budget. That's right, I call it inflationary revenue, that's not what we're saying. But inflation is also increasing the cost of the state budget. And in the long run, nothing has changed in the past or in this government that, for example, we are fully compensating our pensioners for inflation. So take the VAT collection in billions and pension expenses. Both show inflation on the income and expenditure side. Every year it's completely obvious, pension expenses are just a little higher than VAT revenue. So, yes, there are inflationary revenues, but at the same time, there are inflationary expenditures. And, of course, it is better for the budget if the Czech National Bank manages to get at least into the tolerance band as their duty to keep inflation below 2%, the inflation band is 1%. We will see, there will be new macroeconomic forecasts in August, we will see what the forecast will be for 2024 not only for the Ministry of Finance but also for other institutions. First of all, I wanted to respond to those projects that we are planning in this affordable housing and with the deposit, and this is where the Office of State representation works actively in property matters, and this is where the land is actively sought out. We actively seek out the authorities that are willing to go into those pilot projects, I will not name them now, but we have them. We need to finish the price map. We consult, it is also not entirely trivial, with the Office for the Protection of Competition, so that we do not break the rules of competition when we allow it. [[20.30 hours]] But if we succeed - and I believe that during the holidays we will be able to meet all these requirements, so we are ready to do pilot projects, and I believe that they will be successful, and then it can be much more successful and massive in the coming years. It's not a one-term project, I understand that. Today, when Mr Babiš spoke of how much property the state should have, let me just remind you that we, as the government, have decided that all unnecessary property will be concentrated in the Office of State representation in property matters, the deadline is by the end of August of this year. We have prepared a very good application for each government to see what property, whether necessary or unnecessary, is in its cadastral state. We are preparing to amend the law, where we would like to extend the legal grounds for a free transfer, which can certainly be housing construction, and at the same time we are preparing a new institute, that at a time when it is not a legal reason for a free transfer, we would first offer the Authority the opportunity to buy it for an expert opinion, because we all know that it is very complicated and complicated for the self-government, how, what competence to equip one who is going to auction for self-government. This model could make it easier. That is, if the municipality is going to state it, the state will submit an expert opinion, the municipality will say - yes, we can sell it directly if we change the law. If the community says no, there'll be an auction. I think these are all good principles to find suitable land for construction. Of course, the construction has something to do with what we agree with the Vice-President to speed up the construction process, because we're just gonna lure private capital into focus. I think - and according to trends, it looks like it might be - that the popularity of rental housing will grow. I don't think we're supposed to be putting those two types of living against each other again and saying -- this is great, this is totally wrong. Each can be accommodated by a different type of living, for example, at a different stage of working activity and working life. And I would then, before we vote for the strong words that the finance minister wants to take something away from someone, whether it's good or bad for public finances as a whole. I am convinced that this is a good thing and it will increase, I would say, the motivation and responsibility of those who will apply for this money. Because the projects - yes, they are investment projects, but they very often and logically produce operating costs. And they're not subsidized anymore. And I think that even the fact that the participation may increase, at the same time the future operating expenditures will be considered more, could lead to those projects being ultimately successful and leading to greater financial stability for the public sector as a whole. That was the two things I wanted to respond to from the Minister's or Ministry of Finance's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u158	Thank you. And with the factual remark of Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u159	Well, I'd like to thank the Minister. I didn't know the Ministry of Finance was involved in this housing project, so it's a surprise for me... [[Minister Stanjura from the place: We all deal with him.]] Yeah, you're all dealing with it. Okay, okay, okay. So I'll see what happens. I'd just like to respond to some of the things you said here, Mr. Secretary. It wasn't much of a builder. Well, please, look at the mortgage market under our government, when record mortgage sums fell, because of course, young people were building. I understand that we're not supposed to build property housing versus rental housing, but that's the biggest problem right now, because we just don't have apartments, which means those young people, if they can't reach the mortgages, they actually have nowhere to go. Now it's a really hard time. And you need to reach into your conscience, too, now I don't mean yours, but the Civil Democratic Party, because in your government, 600,000 municipal apartments have been sold and privatized. And that's the problem that actually happens here that municipalities don't have the apartments available, basically these people really have nowhere to go, and mayor should really be the ones who should take care of the housing. This also follows from the law on municipalities. Well, I wouldn't be entirely for that, and I can't agree with you here that only the market should take care of it. The quality of life, housing and so on is also due to the law on municipalities and the capital city of Prague and cities as such. Value maps of rent. That's not true, Minister. We prepared value maps of rent with everything, we handed it over to the MPSV, which was to update it regularly. I rather think that it would be worth looking at whether to give the competence back to the Czech Statistical Office, which would actually investigate the prices, because that is his responsibility. Of course, he's supposed to find out things the way they're doing. So that's not true. We handed it over. Just when you're talking about the market, it's really just here-- [[Time.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u160	Time. Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher, Vice-President Karel Havlíček, Minister Ivan Bartoš and Zbyněk Stanjura are also reporting with a factual - and it is already quite a number. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u161	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I want to respond to the Minister about the amendment to the early-paid mortgage fee so there's nothing left in the air. He actually quoted here the amendment I made here, which I made to my colleague's amendment. I adjusted it to be consumer-friendly, that is, 1.5 percent, the upper limit of 50,000, and the expansion of life situations so that consumers could pay off the mortgage without sanctions in those situations that happen quite often and where they are sanctioned and cannot avoid it - divorce, real estate sales and the like. However, all of this happened at a different time. You know that. I'm criticizing this proposal because, first of all, it's part of a package that has nothing to do with it. This is an amendment to the Consumer Credit Act. This is to be discussed separately. [[Minister Stanjura: Part of the package.]] It is part of the non-package, it is part of the press 474, a package concerning part of the pension reform of the third pillar. But that doesn't have anything to do with it. That's the first thing I criticize. Second, the situation is different. At the time there were interest rates, now don't grab my word, 2-3 percent, now it's 6. Now banks have record profits, the situation wasn't like that at the time. Now everything gets more expensive for these people, taxes go up, things like that. And to come up with this, I just think it's done at the wrong time and at the wrong time, so to speak, porter. So let's talk factually, professionally about what this sanction and charge is doing, how it's supposed to be designed, but please, not within the third pillar of pension products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u162	Thank you for keeping time. And now Vice-President Karel Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u163	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you may have pinpointed quite precisely the problem with the inflation, the hesitation of the government. Because you said more or less that the main player is the Czech National Bank, or then the government can do something. But it's not like that. It's not like that. Let's not confuse two concepts. The main goal of the Czech National Bank is to take care of price stability, or low inflation, which we agree on. And achieving that low inflation or that price stability is some kind of permanent contribution from that central bank to creating some kind of growth. But this does not mean that the Czech National Bank or the central bank in general is the most important one. It's always based on the nature of the inflation. As far as demand-driven inflation is concerned, you are undoubtedly right, the central bank must be the main player and it has a wide range of instruments, especially interest rates, and possibly exchange rate strengthening. If this translates into supply inflation or let's say cost inflation, at that point the central bank's role is retreating, and it's more about fiscal instruments, I'm not just saying, whether it's a certain level of regulation. And we can talk about what's better, what's worse, the reduction in VAT, the introduction of certain ceilings, the fixation of prices and so on, the labour market, of course, plays a role in this. And then the central bank works in this especially at that level of appreciation of the exchange rate. And you missed the exact time it went from demand to cost inflation. And all we had to do here was listen to what the European Central Bank said. This was in November 2021, when she said that inflation was due mainly to the disruption of supply - demand in post-covide time. There, you're right, the central bank works. But beware, she has already indicated clearly that it is starting to happen, that it is beginning to rise as a result of the rise in energy prices. And there must be some fiscal-policy-based interventions here, whether on the basis of regulation or, for example, VAT. [[Time.]] And you didn't control the regulation. [[Time, please!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u164	Thank you. And then there's Minister Ivan Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u165	I would only respond to one thing that has been said here by Vice-President Dostálová. You actually described the situation that led us to the housing situation now because there was a massive privatisation, so the biggest investment in property housing has historically been made. And then relatively rising real wages, quite a quick construction process - even in the Czech Republic - is criticized - and cheap mortgages have led to nothing, there was no reason why those prices could not grow. You just borrowed it, and the developer's not gonna build a house any more than he's gonna sell in that money for a quick price. And even for those developers, it was best to borrow quickly, build and sell quickly. The flats were still being sold - such was the interest given. However, the situation is significantly different, either in postcovid or in connection with the war in Ukraine, from the rise in energy prices, construction works or building materials. That's why we need to look for an alternative. What's funny is that the countries that had been in a similar situation since the 1990s also made good money, the banks had cheap loans, so they knew that investing in general, affordable housing was important to correct the ratio of purely commercial housing, whether owned or rented, and the offer of municipal flats. Some states by significant regulation - after all, what you read here from what I hosted at the Ministry, and in some cases I even think that the things we prepare in the law copy them, in others I completely disagree with them, so we have to deal with it. [[unintelligible]] Minister Stanjura here found the definition of available housing, we are talking about the commercial tools, we are notifying the European Commission, I spoke to Commissioner Vestager for an hour and a half in person last week, the housing for municipalities, so that there could be lower rent according to price maps. [[Uh-huh]] And there were about three billion in the SFPI, and the National Recovery Plan is set up by 8.5 billion for the whole project, which will not be subsidized money, but credit money, smart financial instruments... to come back, so now we're going to... make the biggest investment... in affordable... rental housing. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] [[Time.]] [[- Please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u166	Thank you. And now Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u167	First, for the Vice-President. It is logical that we are already dealing with banks and insurance companies and that we are involved in this project. I didn't think we were doing it ourselves, we're doing it in cooperation with both MMR, MPSV and some other colleagues. I think it's a better chance of success. Of course, we have the new CEO of the National Development Bank, debating what assignment the state will give to its state bank. Unfortunately, today legal regulation affects the National Development Bank as well as commercial banks. We have a state bank, but it is subject to the same regulation as all commercial banks. We will prepare some amendment of the law in order to allow the state to conduct policy through the National Development Bank, where appropriate. I have to say no to the fact that they were selling municipalities in your government. That's... This is independent of who is in government, whether municipalities privatise or do not privatise the housing fund, whether they invest in construction or not. I think it's the right move, but it's not the credit of any government, it's not the criticism of any government. It's a high-level decision by the authorities. If we don't want to criticize the fact that the authorities got the houses, the housing fund, I'm not gonna criticize it. I think it was the right way to look at the state of the housing fund and compare it to the state it was in when the municipalities got it from the state. And those municipalities weren't able to do tens of thousands of apartments or houses to take care of it, all of them. They didn't have the money, it was some sort of selection method, that's all I want to say. For Mr Nacher: I think his amendment is good, and I welcome his offer for a professional debate. Whether it's in the right medium or not, it's not that important. I was gonna say one thing - the story isn't black and white. The devil, the angel, the supporter of one or the other. It's for a professional debate. We're not defending it. I hope he can hear me somewhere, because we can't... he's still sitting here. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u168	Thank you. And Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Mr Igor Hendrych will also be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u169	Thank you. I can agree on a lot of things. I might bounce off that... of course the apartments are missing. Those who were privatized didn't build communities. That's the reality. Today, we don't have rentals, we don't have municipal housing, but we have a lot of ownership. But here I have to agree with what Minister Bartoš said that it basically started the era. And only for Minister Bartoš that they do it differently somewhere. Post-communist countries have exactly the same problems. Everyone. It's just a high proportion of ownership housing because it's due at the time, okay? So we don't have to talk about it, let's just find a way to make it better. I'm just talking about the European funds - you touched them here, okay? I just... the 5% co-financing of the whole volume is only for kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, and ESF, the European Social Fund, not elsewhere. Somewhere else, it's the tall ones. So the question is, of course, it's going to affect the citizens. And then you said it was a good thing the community would pay extra. But, Minister, here's a hand to the heart, you're punishing those who invested. The guys they've got are gonna get co-financing for that share. Those who invested don't have that kind of money in their accounts, and they're gonna have to re-indebt for that high-interest share of theirs. Well, you want to cancel -- the government, I'm not going to take as the Minister of Finance right now -- but the government wants to cancel the co-financing share of the state budget towards the municipalities in the so-called transition regions. I am not talking about Prague, where I approve and applaud you, because of course Prague has a huge amount of money in its accounts. But watch out for those municipalities, because it's really going to fall into regions that, thanks to the fact that they're in NUTS, such as the Highlands, it's really unfair for them, because those tiny communities are going to have a high share of the co-financing itself. And just one last comment. You say the Minister of Finance can't do anything, it's the government. Well, I think that's one of the most important roles in government, and I have to say that I myself had to convince the Minister of Finance a lot and show her numbers and defend... those things, but then it paid off. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u170	Thank you. And now, with a factual remark, Mr Igor Hendrych will respond and then the Minister of Finance will speak again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u171	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will turn to the Minister for - as my own, in quotation marks, a compatriot or... not exactly, but a fellow citizen from the statutory city of Opava. He did a little bit with the privatization of the housing fund he was talking about here, and I suppose he was talking about his own experience from when he was mayor between 2002 and 2010, which I remember as a citizen, and I was then Deputy Mayor from 2018 until 2021. At that time it was sold around some - at the time of Mr Stanjura's mayor - was sold - I will not say exactly now, yes - but more than 10,000 flats were sold and I think there were more, and from the housing fund there was 551 left in Opava, in the statutory city. I know exactly because I had the property of the city under me, among other things, which means in some relative terms 1.8, 1.7 percent of the total housing fund in Opava. And that is very little, because social housing experts have been talking about it in the Czech Republic and in the West for a long time, that the housing fund, which should have cities available, should be about 10, ideally 15 percent. With us, less than 2 percent remained, and in fact in the locality, which is not entirely suitable for this, because the city centre, the city center, remained the apartments that are used for social purposes, and basically all the housing estates in Opava were sold out in the privatisation. So it's just a remark that it's quite critical of this era of privatization of the city housing fund in Opava. And not just me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u172	Thank you for keeping time. And now the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u173	Well, it has nothing to do with the consolidation package, we were talking about rental housing, but so... I don't like the fact that when the Prague council is being dealt with here, let's not worry about Opava. If those people didn't want it, they wouldn't have bought it. It was bought by those who lived in the flats - very simple, yes. But I volunteered for something else. I really don't think we have to deal with this - I have no problem with it - but the municipal policy of a particular city and I am upset by my Prague colleagues or our Prague colleagues who have been dealing with their conflicts here for years with the city council, no matter who is in Prague at City Hall in a plus and who is at a minus. I found the coefficients, and the percentages, and I think... And you said the municipalities would have to borrow for it -- well, the state wouldn't borrow for it? If we're in surplus, you're right. Why would we force the public sector to borrow if someone was in surplus? And today it's the other way around. So let's talk about who's gonna borrow it. Then the debate is completely different. What Vice-President Havlíček said about the fiscal contribution to reducing inflation supports the reasons for the recovery package. [[20.50 hours]] It is one of the reasons why we are reducing state budget deficits. I agree with that, but we're applying, we're doing it. We can talk about whether this tool is good or bad, if you have a better tool than we have, that's a legitimate debate. But I also said that, in order to fulfil our share of the responsibility to inflation, we must reduce state budget deficits. I'm so glad we agree on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u174	Thank you and now Vice-President Karel Havlíček will respond and then it looks like a return to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u175	Yes, I fully agree with that. I didn't finish this because I was ticking the time that one of those key fiscal policy instruments was, of course, a budget balance reduction. So absolutely right, we can talk about what's part of the package, but reducing the balance is an anti-inflationary measure. But I was referring to the key problem, the unconceived situation at the turn of the day. the years 2021 and 2022, because the deficit reduction is more or less a medium-term or long-term issue, you simply fail from month to month. And there was supposed to be an immediate reaction, and there were more tools. You strictly refused to continue with the fact that we reduced VAT to zero, well, you refused, but you didn't take any other immediate action. And I say between us, there are no more. There's two of them. Either VAT or immediately regulate prices. And some countries reacted differently, some others, it doesn't matter, and the regulation of those prices would immediately mean that inflation would go down. Regulation in the sense that it would not be allowed to go up with those prices. And you went the other way, you let those big players make money, then tax them. That means it wasn't anti-inflationary, but on the contrary, you actually supported the inflation a little bit, and then you redistributed it in some complicated way. And here's the big mistake. That is also why, at the end of 2021, inflation was still plus or minus the average of the European Union - I suspect that it was somewhere around 4 to 5 percent, I don't have it right now, 5.3 and 5.4, I remember it, so - and then it went off the grid, and in fact in the next few months, the European Union took a huge loss towards the Czech Republic, to put it simply, this inflation grew much faster just because there were no fiscal measures that you left it to the central bank, which was playing with interest rates, and unfortunately, we were already missing out. And at this point, it's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u176	Thank you and we can now return to the general debate on the duly signed up, where it is Mrs Jana Pastuchová's turn. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u177	Thank you so much for looking forward to seeing me, and you had a reason to, because my contribution is going a little bit towards the half-empty ranks here, but it's headed for the government coalition. I think it's nine o'clock and I'm not gonna be that way - or I'm gonna calm it down with such a nice story and a summary of what this consolidation package does to normal citizens, and it's really a real story that's happened and I've decided to put it in my post today. So it was said - or I should say first, Dear Government, today there are more ministers than yesterday, there are two. Actually, there were two of them yesterday, so it's the same number. So, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said and there will be many more, because I am the first of the fifty discussing at nine o'clock in the evening, and there is no point in me declaring my position here on the consolidation package, and I will do that as all of us do in the vote. After all, I have a similar view of him as my colleagues. From the performances of some government colleagues, whether here in the House or in the media, I sometimes feel like you're kind of forgetting why you're here in the House. You're not here for yourself, for your thoughts, you're here to represent your constituents, the people who gave you their vote in the election, not because they're somehow impressed by your personal opinion - at least mostly - but because they liked your electoral program, your party's electoral program or the group you've been running for. As I said, maybe I'll surprise you a little today by normally trying to defend the interests of groups of people that you're threatening and who disagree with you. I am not saying and I cannot say that everyone voted for the YES movement in the elections, but they are in agreement with what the YES defends and what they are trying to prevent here in the House. Today I will speak for your constituents, your five-wheel voters, the people who voted for the government parties and who, logically, should be in agreement with your views and the steps you are taking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u178	Yes, my colleague, I was trying to quiet your colleagues from the left side of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u179	I'll just step in, Madam Vice-President, through you. I know, co-worker Patrik Nacher, that I skipped you over those six spots, I'm not gonna do it next time. Then I'll keep going. So I'm going to speak for your constituents who voted for you and chose you on the basis of your program, your pre-election vows that you had in your electoral program, but now they feel like you're not fulfilling your pre-election vows, that you lied to them, and I think the feeling is justified. Last week I received a letter from a gentleman from the Liberec Region where I came from. At first, I considered whether to put it in this post, but then I concluded that this letter actually best suggests that you no longer defend the interests of this country, its citizens, but also those from which you received the votes. And this consolidation package is just a spit in the face of your constituents. And now for that letter I'd like to read to you: Madam, we met at your election meeting in Liberec, although you probably won't remember me. We talked for a while, and then I left. I was getting married at the time, my girlfriend and I decided to marry and start a family after a four-year relationship. We both have college education, I work in the field of design, wife is a teacher. We had something saved up, we wanted to buy a piece of land behind Liberec, take a mortgage, build a house and get kids. So much for the plans that we're doing now, but it's worse than I thought. Honestly, I was so excited about how the election went, how the government assembled. I understood the concessions in the government's programming statement as a result of the compromise that was necessary for the establishment of the government, even though I was not happy about everything. My wife and I voted for the association, which I told you at the meeting in Liberec. I liked that they didn't want to raise taxes, in their program they thought about supporting housing and young families. In fact, it was all part of my plan. We got married, bought land out of saved money, saved up so we could get a mortgage. And we save all the time. We didn't get a mortgage by the time she was abducted. Now, two years after the wedding, and actually two years after the election, almost two years after the election, mortgage terms are as brutal as they've never been. Construction is slow, unsolved inflation is slowing everything down. The same government wants to double the property tax. At the same time, food and services are becoming more expensive not only because of inflation, but also because of raising VAT and transferring a whole range of things to a higher rate. Except, of course, wine. Too bad half the government is from Moravia, and all they care about is wine. If they were from Liberec, the increase in VAT might not be about some of the more generally needed things. I have not met a Member other than you, so I sometimes return to our conversation in my thoughts. I'd like to add some more questions. How is a young family supposed to build a future together now? How are we supposed to get kids, pay for living and save for retirement? [[21.00 hours]] If we want to live, sport, sometimes go to a restaurant and enjoy a little life, it's really hard. We want children, after all, we would actually be able to deliver new payers to the pension system. But I don't know, but I don't know...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u180	Ambassador, on the right side of the hall, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u181	But I don't know if I can afford the kids right now, if I can get them a place to live, if I can even afford to feed them with dignity. Madam, in conclusion, I come to the point of writing. I want to apologize. In our conversation, I asked you how you feel about defending YES. You said at the time that your party was trying to do something for people and that other people's program was just Anti-Babish. I laughed and left. I'm not laughing now because I'm the one who fell for it. I don't know if you were right, SPOLU, but he's definitely not doing the program for which my wife and I voted for him. If we ever meet, I'll probably be more careful in choosing words and arguments. A nice summer and a signature of a writer, which, of course, I will not publish. There. Now tell me what to say to this man. What am I supposed to say to him when I know that you're gonna hear us out here today, some of you or a few of you, and then you're gonna approve the consolidation package anyway, and whoever wrote to me is probably not gonna get any better, or worse. That's your voter. I didn't promise him the mountains. You promised him. He had some idea of the life he wanted to lead, he considered all the pros and cons and decided. And you don't keep what you promised him. So, paradoxically, I beg you, read your election programs again. Remember what you promised people in your electoral programs. And then ask yourself if the material we're dealing with here today contains these promises of yours at least in a hint. Think about what your adjustments will mean for most of the people who live here, what they will mean for your constituents and one who sent me this letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u182	Thank you. And before Mrs Šafránková prepares, I will read some apologies in the meantime. Mrs Věra Adámková apologises from 21.45 hours on health grounds and Vice-President Věra Kovářová from 20.15 hours on personal grounds. And please, Madame, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u183	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good evening. To a government proposal that is falsely referred to as a set of measures leading to the consolidation of public finances, I too would like to make a few comments. This government proposal cannot be called a consolidation package just for the simple reason that it does not contain any specific austerity measures on the part of budgetary expenditure. The increase in taxes, i.e. State income measures, will not lead to the desired consolidation of public finances as it will severely weaken the purchasing power of all households, with all foreseeable consequences, including deepening and continuing the decline in retail sales. In the finals it will also be damage to the business and corporate sectors. And, of course, a decline in real net household income, including its irreversible impact on the social support system, can also be expected, where the number of applications for social benefits will increase significantly. These will also be the consequences of the government package. But that's actually based on your actions so far, your goal. So instead of doing everything it can to make Czech citizens' wages grow, because it is the main engine of the economy, of economic growth, but, after all, of a sustainable and balanced budget, including its important subset of the so-called pension account, it does everything in this package to keep wages going down. When all the Czech governments in the past, including governments, where some of today's five-calice parties have been present, have deprived themselves of the opportunity to push for growth in wages in the economy directly, why are you further reducing these wages yourself? Are you reducing them using the only instrument that you have left in this area, i.e. by reducing, restricting or completely abolishing many tax discounts and tax advantages for employees and businessmen? Do you think there's an increase in taxation on the way to prosperity? Do you think the wages of the Czech working people are too high? Are you advocates and promoters of cheap work and dig for interests rather than interests of Czech employees and tradesmen? According to your particular actions, yes. By the way, the biggest victim of your tax consolidation and social play will be families with pre-school children. By abolishing the kindergarten and sensitive restrictions on the possibility of receiving a tax discount on the caregiver's husband or housewife, you are losing about the amount in the range according to the age of children from 20,000 to 45 000 crowns per year. This is indeed the support of families and birthplaces, which some government parties literally have in their coat of arms really like stitches. What did working families and children do to you? Do you think they live beyond their means? Some government advocates of cutbacks of these pro-family discounts claim that they are useless and that they serve only high-income citizens anyway. It's not true. The kindergarten can be used by one child's parents with gross income from CZK 30,000. And especially for single parents, this is a vital item in their family budgets. Nursing fees in combination with a discount on a caregiver's wife or husband can be used by families with a child where a working father or mother receives from CZK 40,000 a month, which is basically below average income nowadays. Moreover, for a family where one of the parents works full-time, for a family who has pre-school children and lives in a city where they either pay a high mortgage or keep increasing rent, even with income of over CZK 50,000 a month, literally each crown is good and important, including each crown from tax discounts. And the response to the fact that kindergarten fees cannot be used by families with very low, below-average incomes is not to abolish it, but to approve my proposal, which I submitted two years ago and which would allow tax reductions to be swapped into tax bonuses, which is not possible today. This is also recommended by some economists and experts on family and social policy. So government austerity proposals have no logic, but they can irreversibly damage the standard of living of hundreds of thousands of our working families with children, but also of other citizens, including the deterioration of the availability of public services to them. The government simply throws responsibility for the budget on these citizens, another amendment currently under discussion, as well as pensioners. And she figuratively washes her own hands. Do you really think it's normal to punish the weakest group of fellow citizens? You're on the path of least resistance. You don't want to invent anything complicated, you don't want to work and fight inflation, you don't dare to think of strong economic players who are racket-growing profits. But they pay the citizens, you wonder what else they have left. Indeed, the government began to save as it promised, but on citizens, socially most threatened citizens, who did not contribute to the collapse of public finances. And you bathe yourself figuratively in champagne. It is therefore evident that all wages or salaries paid to employees in the public and private sectors will fall significantly due to this government tax package. Moreover, at a time of still high inflation. I ask every government Member to answer, at least truthfully, the question of whether it is right, fair, but also pragmatic, economically for citizens and a good and beneficial state. By the way, for almost three years the freezing of the salaries of some state employees, for example in the social area associated with the proposed cut-off of money for regions and municipalities, will lead to a brutal deterioration in the quality and availability of many social services, including care for vulnerable children, seniors, disabled people, which is already happening. [[21.10 hours]] There will be another flood of branches of labour offices and the Czech Social Security Administration, where employees will remain and tens of thousands of other clients will be added. What's that gonna mean for a regular citizen? General deterioration of its access to public administration and public services. Even longer waiting for retirement payments or any social support. Or even worse access to health care or lower safety, deterioration of care for public space. That's what I call real consolidation. Even in the preparation of this package, the incompetent government has not had a serious social dialogue with its partners and is acting as the only expert on truth and good practices. In a year and a half of its rule on concrete results, we see that it is exactly the opposite. And economic reality? While, due to high inflation, prices of almost all goods and services, especially those vital and irreplaceable, are rising sharply, so the minimum remuneration, wages, pensions, parental allowance and care allowance for disabled people is rapidly reducing purchasing power and living standards of citizens. It reminds a little, like famous déjà vu, tragic mistakes and sad endings of former governments, where most of the current government parties, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, i.e. Topolánkův and especially Nečasův' government were present. These governments so choked citizens and the economy with restrictions that it took us the longest in Europe to get out of the crisis. This government, too, is clueless and unable to lead the country out of inflation and from the economic downturn. All you have to do is look beyond our borders. In addition, the current crisis, inflation, and wage and sales downturn have co-opted a combination of their own mistakes and inactivity, and have just wasted time. We too are aware of the need to consolidate public finances, but the real one that will not destroy human and social capital, which is the most precious thing we have at our disposal. But this consolidation for us is not meaningless and counterproductive cuts, but measures that will not squeeze money from working people, students and seniors. These measures must exploit the economic potential of the state where there is one, for example in the energy sector, or reach for funds in the sphere where they are, mainly thanks to the work of Czech people, and where they are practically not taxed. These are sectors that we sold abroad for our mouths and produce record profits. Without adequate remuneration to the Czech state, which enabled these profits to be realised and made possible thanks to the previous ODS and KDU-ČSL governments. For example, foreign-owned banks, food chains also in foreign ownership, energy companies and other multinational corporations operating in the digital economy. Yes, it takes political courage. It is harder than driving around employees and businessmen and raising tax rates and tax bases only for them. By the way, the flow of dividends from the Czech Republic and the Czech economy is a long-term serious problem that is closely linked to the too high representation of foreign investment in our economy, with a broad layer of these foreign investment in the various key sectors of our economy and with the extremely high profitability of these investments and foreign corporations in general, including in international comparison. And all the governments you've had so far, of which yours is the economic-social worst, have shown zero effort to do anything about this fundamental problem. About the tradesmen's question. You may have relieved them of their obligation to operate in the electronic sales log mode and we supported it in the SPD as the right decision, with the fact that we have it in our political program, but at the same time in silence you are increasing their pension insurance rates by 60 percent with this package. Why don't you boast more? It's the pension reform you promised. Isn't it? You just threw the businessmen, especially the small ones with lower incomes and profits, overboard. And yet some government parties are falsely pretending to be supporters of tradesmen. What is to be done and what you are not doing, especially to fight inflation, to carry out consistently price controls and enforce appropriate sanctions, to use the Price Act effectively, to set maximum prices or price moratorium in certain sensitive segments, to set the level of reasonable profit, to announce the maximum percentage of inclusion of inputs in the price of goods, to set maximum price increases over a certain period of time and so on. You have the tools at your disposal. The best thing the government could figuratively do with its pseudo-consolidation package is to carry it to some of the 300 branches of the Czech Post, which it canceled on 30 June so that it would never return from there. Otherwise, the threat of social reconciliation in the country is at stake solely because of this government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u184	Thank you and with a factual remark, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will respond to Marian Jurečka. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u185	Good evening, Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to respond because what was said here a moment ago was also a show of really obvious untruths, because, for example, my fellow Member here was talking about social services and about three years of frozen salaries. Then I'll ask him to prove it or not to say it. Because when it comes to the question of wages and salaries in social services, they grow. The total financial volume is also growing to finance social services. Under our government, support is also growing, which comes not only from the grant title but also from other multi-source forms of funding. So, please, nicely, if you're saying that three years is frozen social pay, then prove it. It's not true. This is growing in absolute volume as well as in tariffs, because in the social sphere, the government can only affect the tariff part where workers who are in the pay sector are affected by only about one third of it. In the field of wages are providers for which we for driving (?) we do not have any tool to set the level of wages, which is set by individual providers. So, please, don't say things that aren't true. As far as the self-employed person is concerned, say also B, which means that when this gradual increase and increase of the minimum contribution of the self-employed person and it is spread over three years consecutive, it will increase by approximately CZK 1800 per month for the entity, for a businessman who works and does his work there at least four and another year, but also his pension will then increase by CZK 4,000 per month. Say the whole related thing that's connected to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u186	Thank you for keeping time. And now I have Mr Karel Sládeček, Mrs Adrea Babišová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u187	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when Minister Stanjura solemnly presented an austerity package at the Office of the Government on 11 May, he said - I quote: We are reforming VAT, we will have two rates - 12 and 21 percent. We are simplifying VAT from three rates to two. As far as I'm concerned, I'm getting three rates. The first rate is zero, and that's for books. The zero rate is also a rate. The second rate is 12 and the third rate is 21 percent. One and one and one are three. At least that's the way it was until recently. It seems that the economic experts of the Fialův government can't even count to three. Furthermore, the main principles of the recovery package should be a slim state, simplicity and social reconciliation. [[21.20 hours]] I don't see any slim state in the recovery package. When are you going to cancel three completely useless ministries? The Ministry of European Affairs was created because of the Czech Presidency in the EU Council. This ended at the end of last year and you have not completely cancelled the Ministry until today. As well as the Ministry of Legislation and the Ministry of Science, Research and Innovation. If you had more capable people in your ranks, such as Mr Svoboda, who works for at least four people, you could slim the state apparatus by one third a day. Then our state would be really thin. You want people to tease their belts, but you don't make fun of them at all! On the contrary, you spend our citizens' money on foreign statesmen's trips and we are a small country, so in an economically poor situation and we are not a power, even if some of your ministers behave as if we were a superpower, see, for example, the behaviour of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Lipavský or Secretary of Defense, Černochová, who often surpasses the behaviour of their American counterparts by taking the initiative. Your government is called right-wing conservative, but you are not leading your economic policy in this direction at all. The deficit of the Czech Republic should be reduced only by cutting expenditures rather than by increasing taxes. I never thought I'd teach right-wing government the basics of right-wing politics. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance should cancel the subsidies on a flat-rate basis. It should disturb the entire budget chapters and not reduce them by just a few percent. All renowned economists call the recovery package unconceptionable and unsystemic. It's such a mess. Not only will this rubble contribute to a significant reduction in government debt, but it will also reduce the country's economic performance. I do not agree with this recovery package in particular because the measures will fall hard on self-employed persons, on families with children and on pensioners, while the puffy state apparatus will only be touched by a brief glimpse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u188	Thank you, too. And now it is Mrs Andrea Babišová's turn to prepare Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u189	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, let me share with you today the deep criticism of the draft consolidation package of the ruling five-wheeler, which has presented to us without any prior discussion on the broad political spectrum and without any communication with us, with the opposition, my tax package, which contains a large number of ill-conceived and senseless proposals. Many of my opposition colleagues have said that the government's projected proposal is neither austerity nor consolidation, but rather a tax package that will burden our citizens with unbearable peace and which, among other things, violates all the promises made by representatives of the five coalition parties and the movement to their citizens and voters at the time of the election campaign. I am thinking, above all, of the promises that all citizens of this country have heard and read through the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala and have been promised not to raise taxes and raise standard of living. I think this consolidation proposal is totally unacceptable and does not correspond to the interests of our constituents and citizens of this country. The proposal put forward by the government is full of measures that will have a disastrous impact on our economy, the standard of living of our citizens and, above all, the development of this society. Again, it turns out that the government has failed to prepare a sensible and balanced plan for consolidation of our economy. Instead, they try to burden citizens, entrepreneurs, students, seniors, and indebt future generations. We will not close our eyes to the fact that this proposal will have the hardest impact on the weakest in society. The government's actions are hypocritical and ruthless against seniors, students, and families who fight each crown. We must not ignore the fact that this proposal seeks to punish our employees for their hard work. Lowering wages, raising taxes and reducing social security is a disgrace. Our working citizens deserve a fair reward for their work and security for their future, not other attacks on their wallets. The proposed consolidation package is clear evidence of government failure and incompetence. It is quite obvious that the five-calice has no sense of priority and is unable to put together a plan that meets the needs of our society. Instead, he deals with political games and tries to maintain some form of power at all costs. The opposition is not afraid to point out these shortcomings and defend the interests of our citizens. We will fight this proposal and we will say no loudly to raising taxes and not to making our citizens' living conditions worse. I fundamentally disagree with and do not understand how the government can propose a reduction in the tax credit for the spouse, the abolition of the tax credit for the placement of the child, the abolition of the tax credit for students and the limitation of the freedom of non-cash benefits of employees. These proposals are an attack on families, education and employees who are already facing financial challenges. And now, when we look at the proposal to increase the assessment base on social insurance for self-employed people, increase property tax, reduce funds from the FKSP and other assumed nonsense, we see that the government is trying to push our citizens into the financial difficulties of their personal and family budgets. These proposed measures will have a huge impact on their standard of living, financial stability and access to important services. This government, which cannot understand the needs and demands of voters and our citizens, instead of supporting families, education, employment and culture, seeks to increase its incomes at the expense of theirs. The government should serve citizens, not burden them with other taxes and limit their opportunities. According to the analysis produced by the Labour and Social Affairs Research Institute, the average household would lose CZK 7,614 after nine major tax changes from the entire government package. The Institute evaluated changes in VAT rates, the introduction of sickness contributions for employees, the increase in progression in income tax, tradesmen's taxes and real estate taxes, the abolition of kindergarten fees, the limitation of the discount on the wife or husband and the tax on alcohol, tobacco and gambling. At least the planned measures should affect, on average, the elderly, the most complete families with children. The state would receive the highest income to restore the budget from employees from the new sickness insurance. According to an analysis on sickness insurance, the average household will pay CZK 2,723, on contributions of traders CZK 2,233, on the amount of real estate tax 431, from alcohol CZK 264, from tobacco CZK 403, on tax progression CZK 465. The kindergarten fee will mean the loss of CZK 832 and the cancellation of the discount on the wife or husband CZK 467, a total of CZK 7 614. The family situation may be aggravated by the reduction in support of building savings, as well as the cost of housing. Property tax goes up to double. The average large apartment in the centre of Prague will cost 800 crowns a year on the said tax, slightly less in smaller towns. The budget will also weigh more on commuting. The annual motorway stamp will be up 800 CZK and public transport will also be up to 12% of the VAT rate due to the transfer from 10% to 12% of the VAT rate. Two percent of the annual coupon at Prague public transport would mean CZK 73 extra. Moving from 10% to 12% of the rate is also expected by central heat or by aqueous and permeable heat. More taxed will also be vices such as alcohol, tobacco, and gambling. On the other hand, they would be slightly cheaper by moving to a lower VAT rate. [[21.30 hours]] Of the nine measures, the state would have obtained 33.64 (?) according to the research institute. billions of crowns, the Ministry of Finance is counting on CZK 27.5 billion. The employees will take care of most of it. Their sickness insurance should be $12.23 billion, as the experts have calculated. The current government cannot be surprised that we, as opposition to the word, are trying to protect and prevent our citizens from reducing their standard of living and returning to a minimum of 15 years ago. We can also evaluate ourselves today. In the last parliamentary term, we were a coalition government and we had a big problem. At first we had a budget, we reduced taxes, we did very well. [[Balanced?]] After the covid, of course, we had to rethink the situation and we had to go into debt in order to give our citizens protective aids to secure businessmen when the economy dwindled. Yet we had a plan to reduce debt in our country. We are now in opposition parties. You were struck by the Ukrainian war again. No one was counting on her. But you have decided that we will be the best country to help all Ukrainian refugees and we will continue to help not only food, finance, weapons and so on. But let us think, first of all, of our citizens and of our people, who, in a spiral that you've turned on inflation and for half a year, you've only been sending signals and waiting, and in the meantime, in six months, the spiral has dialed up to 19 percent of inflation, so you're not helping our citizens. This consolidation package is proof of this. As an opposition Member, I have the idea that we are not alone in wanting to fight for our citizens. However, after the last three days and the media have been presented, I fear that we alone are fighting for our citizens today. Let me at this point show insight into this situation from the position of a former member of the trade union organization. I just can't understand how the union fights and fights for our employees. The three trade unions, which were to join together in the amendment to the Labour Code, agreed only 48 hours before discussing this consolidation package, that they would proceed together. 24 hours before discussing this package, which means yesterday, their negotiations took place with five ministers of this government. What was the result of the meeting? After five hours of debate, the unions were given kind permission to prepare some amendments by the end of August this year. In the evening, however, we learn from the Coalition Members that their demands are unlikely to be taken into account, as the government's priority is to keep the package whole and not crumble it. For 10 years I was president of the trade union in Bohumín City Hospital, four years I was a member of the Regional Union Council of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and this is not how I really imagine fighting for the interests of employees and citizens of this country. A long time ago, I feel that thanking the members of the government for even negotiating with the trade unions and glorifying them for constructive debate, for employees and for our citizens will really bring nothing. Action is important, not empty words. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u190	Thank you, too. It is now Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's turn. Before he gets here, I'll read one more apology. Mr. Černý Oldřich apologizes from 20 o'clock for reasons of work. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u191	Good evening, honourable Members of the Government, Madam President, dear colleagues. I can't shake the impression that the government tax package that we are currently discussing is kind of shrouded in the fog, even though the Minister of Finance has been trying very closely to shed light on the essential points here. I'll explain right away why I think that, why I feel that way. Well, because last week I was in several debates with the coalition MPs, and there they said quite openly that a comprehensive amendment from their ranks is being prepared, that is to say, coalition Members. We have now learned that even tripartite was kindly allowed to prepare their amendment. So we're actually dealing with something, and we don't know if it's the final agreement between the government and the coalition partners, or not, what's going to come out of it. It's just unacceptable for me. The Chamber of Deputies has every right to know in advance what will be discussed and what the final idea of government is. I consider this fog to be redundant, and I cannot rid myself of the impression that it is merely to conceal the fact that the government does not know what to do and offers solutions that are composed of individual measures that will not work as a whole. Let us honestly say that the aim of the tax package is to reach into everyone's wallets, especially those who have little left. Whatever inflation didn't take, it's gonna take away Fialův's package. If people tighten their budgets, it will mean one thing. They'll buy less, they'll sell less, and the economy will go downhill. We've been through this before. It's nothing new. This will increase unemployment, poverty and the state's spending. Revenue will not grow due to a declining economy, so the budget will be in even greater deficit than it was. Let us honestly say once again that the Czech economy is stagnating at best and that the European Union countries are certainly not catching up on their economic level. At the same time, economic growth is generally considered to be one of the main objectives of economic policy. It is linked to the growth of consumption, and thus to the increasing standard of living of the population. The level of economic growth achieved is generally regarded as an important indicator of the success of the economic policy of governments and of the overall economic system. At times when countries are achieving relatively high economic growth rates, the country's economic, political and social development is stabilised. At the same time, however, future revenue from the state is increasing, and thus the very ability to bear its debt. In addition, education, culture, health, crime reduction and other positive phenomena generally increase. In economic textbooks, there is talk of sources of economic growth and their influence on the stabilization policies of individual governments. Economic growth also creates additional resources for the state budget. I don't know whether the government has read these books or their advisors. There is a huge amount of nonsense and conflicting action in the package. At least I'll stop by the ones that amused me the most. As you probably know, in recent years, I have been intensively involved in the field of culture. From this point of view, I do not fully understand the proposed adjustments to value added tax. Even without a package, culture is a knockout for this government. When it is cut off, it is always in this resort that the support of all art is reduced. It is not enough that the necessary legislation is slowly being prepared, on which there are European subsidies to culture, that it is not invested, that monuments are not being repaired, and at this point we come up with the fact that we are increasing VAT on tickets for cultural and sporting events. At a time when anyone who wants to go to the theater has to limit other activities, are we still going to raise ticket prices and heal the state budget? Do you, dear government, think this will bring you the billions that are missing from the budget? Aren't you punishing a bit of an uncharted culture that finances itself and is very affected after the covid? In this logic, I also see senseless rising rates in food and accommodation services. I consider culture and tourism to be very linked fields and, at the moment when vacation in Sumava is slowly more expensive than seaside holidays, do you want to burden this even more with higher taxation? I don't understand. You really don't want anyone to go to that Sumava at all? [[21.40 hours]] And if people don't stay at home on vacation, logically they won't go to castles or castles or festivals because they just won't have it. That's what I call quotes. great support for culture. The balíček has completely absurdly included the newspaper in the 21 percent VAT rate. On the other hand, the magazines shift from 10% to 12%. Absorbingly, the rate will be decided on the basis of periodicity, and if the title contains advertising from more than half, it will always fall to 21 percent tax. Thus, if the title is issued not more than three times a week, it will be included in the reduced VAT rate as a magazine, whereas if the title is issued at least four times a week, the title will be included at a 21 percent rate. The fact that there are a huge number of strange titles among the magazines is astonishing. The reduced rate will also be for porn magazines. Tickets to the theatre will then be expensive and porn magazines will be discounted? Don't you find that strange? The large publishing houses, according to their comments, assume that the increase in VAT will accelerate the decline in the daily press market. The planned increase in VAT in the Czech Republic is also criticized by the Association of European Newspaper and Magazine Publishers. According to them, it will not help the state to raise more money into the budget, and tax growth will only reduce the availability of printed media. This may manifest itself in the spread of misinformation. So much favorite subject of this government. From the press, everyone will go to the Internet, which is full of lies and untruths, and there is really a lot of interest in them. In order not to be a little bizarre, the newspaper is defined as a periodical published at least four times a week, a magazine as a periodical at most three times a week. With exaggeration, you can avoid higher VAT by publishing the first three days of the week newspaper N and the other two journal N. Is that gonna be okay? I don't think anyone will, but we know from experience that if you can bypass taxes, there's usually someone who can use it. Another topic that is close to me and on which I want to comment is the government's intention to liquidate building savings. Abolishing part of state aid for building savings at a time when construction is stagnating, at a time when interest on mortgages is at a level of 6%, and at a time when more and more people are struggling with the problem of their own housing, it is simply not a good idea. You may not buy a house with a garden from building savings, but to repair the housing core or adapt the apartment to the needs of modern housing, it is possible. The government step limits the availability and attractiveness of building savings for citizens who want to save on housing or use building savings as an investment method. Let me get a little window from the numbers. Construction savings now have 3.2 million people, roughly every third. It has CZK 366 billion on it, loans currently amount to CZK 341 billion and is drawn by half a million people. It's figures from 2022. I therefore consider this to be a relatively functional instrument of housing policy. Why does the government want to cross him out? I don't think the savings will be that big. On the contrary, I would welcome the government's efforts to make building savings more attractive, adapt current real estate market conditions, and at least equal the amount of support for building savings on inflation. The reduction of the aid by half at a time of unprecedented inflation, with which the government of Petr Fiala does nothing, will result in the effective abolition of this product, which has been widely used throughout the Czech Republic. Moreover, the abolition of part of the construction savings support will lead to a disruption of the stability and predicability of this system. People who are already using or counting on building savings can be surprised by this step and thus lose confidence in state guarantees and support. Building savings is one of the basic tools of housing support and real estate investment, which is important for the development and stability of the real estate market. The abolition of part of the aid may affect the demand for housing and investment, which may have a negative impact on the economy and the construction sector. We are open to discussion about setting up another building savings system, for example, or should contribute to the acquisition of high income households, or should not be assigned to housing needs and so on. But this debate just didn't happen. Real estate prices are a major problem in the Czech Republic. We are in the current housing crisis. In the last decade, real estate prices have grown significantly faster than wages. You need 15 annual wages to buy an apartment. Most of all the countries of the European Union. The absolute minimum policy principle - and it is the sentence that I will repeat here after Mrs Klára Dostálová - is that nothing should be done to make housing even worse. The five-calice step in the disruption of building savings goes the other way. To be honest, on the example of these two areas, I do not understand what the government is dealing with. I'll go back to what I said in the introduction. The cuts from the government package lead to immediate budget savings, perhaps moderate income increases, but I am not sure that the effect will be that way because they have long undermined economic growth and the standard of living of citizens. Don't be mad at me, but I consider it stupid and short-sighted. I think you should pack the package and redo it and then talk to us about what could bring stability and improvement to the Czech economy and thus to the state budget. And even if the House doesn't decide, you should present specific savings to the House on the government side. Because so far, it's the same foggy, flying housenumer, no concrete measures. For example, I would like to know in particular where the Ministry of Culture will save three billion, which is to be cut off in its budget. But Minister Baxa left, he apologized, which I understand he's got work to do, so I guess I'll ask him about the interpellings when there's room for them. I am sure that the tax package cannot be approved without the House being informed in detail of specific austerity measures on the part of the government, so that we know where it will save and what impact it will have on the functioning of the state and ministries. And given what I said here, I'd like to propose that the law be returned to the plaintiff for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u192	Thank you, too. So the proposal is to get back to work. And the next party to the debate is Mr Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u193	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, ministers, dear colleagues, colleagues, I have so shared my contribution that Mr Kučera of the TOP 09 would be pleased that I would not read it and improvise because many of the things were said. But I will also respond to the Minister. First, I would say three points, before the parentheses, then I would respond to the Minister of Finance, if he would listen to me, and then I would have some comments on the tax package without touching any amendments that we said would be at second reading. [[21.50 hours]] The notes in front of the parentheses. I have already said before this meeting that it will be a test of parliamentary democracy today. Why? Because here we are discussing a rather robust material that brings about changes in 63 laws. So I was kind of wondering if the coalition was going to have an appetite for a debate in some way to keep it down and down, and if we're going overnight. Here I have to say, and for the time being, we're not going to go over the night according to Marek Benda's proposal, and the debate isn't going down yet. At the same time, it must also be said that the vast majority of the contributions really concerned the content of what we are discussing here. Otherwise, what I noticed in the speech of the Minister of Finance, and I'm a little sorry, and now the situation has improved oddly, Mr Minister, I'm better off than you are, because when you gave a speech that was very thorough and I thank you for it, you were the only minister here. The only one. [[Minister Stanjura: The government has sat down.]] I know she did. But so you have it in your hands when the government is in session. And the government was meeting at a time when you're actually the most important thing here right now, the most important standard of the year. So the fact that no minister actually listened to you was a thing I underlined with a blue wave just so you know. When I look at the content of this, and I'm still ahead of the parentheses, that point is called the government bill on the consolidation of public budgets. I'd like to rename it as a government bill on raising taxes for citizens and entrepreneurs, because at this point, I think it's a more accurate description of the situation, because that's what these things are. You guys here said you don't need to change the law for a lot of things, and that especially the spending cuts, that you're going to do them. And we've been asking where it's gonna be for the last two months, when it's gonna come and what cuts it's gonna be. One last note in front of the parentheses. I can't help but notice, Minister, and I'm glad the Prime Minister is here, too, because both of you are from ODS, that you are more fulfilling your electoral program when you are in opposition. I've been looking at everything we've approved of in the tax field, and when I think about it, the property transfer tax is canceled on your proposal, too, when you were in opposition. Cancellation of super gross wages too. And now you're in the government, and you're raising taxes against your own campaigns that you had before the election. I'm not gonna repeat the lines that sounded like, like, owning a place, owning a place of my own, that there's no need to punish. So you actually, if the ODS were to complete the program, it would be in opposition. That's how it is. [[Laughter in the YES benches.]] That's how it is. And it's really real. I also looked at how the real estate transfer tax increased from 3 to 4 percent, and this was also at the time when the ODS was in government. Well, I say it in your favor. It's not like it's negative. That's in your favor. [[Re-laughing from the YES benches.]] In other words, when you're in opposition, you're fulfilling the right-wing program, and when you're in government, you're retreating, and you're saying it's a coalition thing, so you're retreating to coalition partners. Here's a reminder that we exchanged here during the 2022 budget negotiations, I suspect when I told you to dust off your own amendment, which you gave us when you were in opposition, for cuts of 80 billion. You said on the microphone, fair and square, that you suggested it, but the coalition partners told you that you didn't. So I'm just reminding you that he has it, that it's in the non-tax area. Okay, here's the reaction to the minister. I listened to you very carefully, you noticed, I was sitting in the front row, taking notes. I'm not gonna respond to everything, let him get to other colleagues. Do we need consolidation? You asked a question right at the beginning. Yes, we agree, we do. But the question is how. How do you do that? And I can't help but notice that you're very often making excuses for the past and for everything that's done, and that you're the firemen, we started the fire, you put out, and we're still criticizing you. So I looked and I looked up the numbers - the debt of the government sector. In 2008, in relation to a percentage to GDP of 28 percent. You were in the government from TOP 09. It went up until 2013, when it reached 44.4 percent. So you guys owed it 16 percent in that time. [[Minister Stanjura's response.]] Yes, there was an economic situation. I know that. You don't even have to tell me that. Then for the first time the ANO movement started, but beware, even from KDU-ČSL, it is necessary to say this fair because you always say eight years, and forget that your partners have been with us for four years. [[Minister Stanjura's response.]] You don't forget, but you always stress the YES movement on the microphone. And under the government of the YES movement, without increasing taxes, there was a decline until 2019 when the debt-to-GDP ratio was 30%. Has there been an increase in taxes? This means that the public budgets have been consolidated and tax increases have not been made. Yes, there was economic growth. But that's what I miss about this, that you don't have a point that's gonna grow. I'll get to that later. Then it began to change in 2020, of course logically with the onset of the covid. Here, please, nicely, I will then get to what I promise you and my colleague, Skopečka, in the next part, that I will read to you a few of your amendments, which have failed and which have increased, extended and applied to your proposals for more people and companies. Because there's a short memory in this. I even filmed it in my double standard. And you need to remind me of this, because when you were in opposition, you wanted the expenses even bigger. So now we're being accused that the YES movement at the time of the covid was spending on compensation is grossly unfair. And I'll get to it. You also said, Minister, extreme views - on the one hand, Greece, on the other hand, do nothing. I totally agree with you here, and you don't hear anything from us either. But I feel like what's ready is more like the haunting that we're going the way of Greece. And that actually has something to do with yesterday's point, and I was talking about it here, and I'm consistent with this, that the seniors are as scared as they are, that it's not for pensions, that we have to borrow it and so on, I've already talked about it here yesterday, while of course they don't lend on other things, right, just for pensions. And then they get scared, and they feel guilty, that after 40 years of working and taking away, they're supposed to receive some pensions, and they're logically valorized. So consent, not extreme opinions, not Řecko, not anything. And here's what I feel, the communication that's going around tends to be haunted. You talked about it - income, expenses - that if we don't want to increase income, we have to say where we want to cut expenses. But I've been saying all along that it's not just that this is a problem, it's just a simple way of looking at a plus or minus. Sure. But there are other moments you're missing. And I really don't know why. And that's where my first question goes. Firstly, a more efficient collection of existing taxes. I just don't have to raise taxes, I can effectively collect the ones that exist. And here I think you shot yourself in your own leg with that EET. I know I'm annoying about it. But even if it's a billion, like it's not like that, it's the money you're looking for right now, you're cutting it off. So my question is, where in this proposal, or what measures have you taken so far, where have you made the collection of existing taxes more effective? Current taxes! Not that I'm gonna automatically increase it all. The second thing, of course, more taxes are due to inflation, not to say thanks, notice - guilt, because it is like negative, but also economic growth. When there is economic growth, you choose more. You don't have to raise taxes. So I want to ask, what is the pro-growth measure part of this package? That's the second question. [[2.00 hours]] Then you said, Minister, the opposition was haunted. That she was haunted. But what are the facts? So let's look at the numbers. By the way, it would be good to say who was specifically haunted by what. That's what I've been putting up with you guys, but what are the facts now? Inflation. Inflation is our third highest. Real wages? The biggest drop. The biggest decline from European Union countries and OECD countries. We have some of the highest prices of electricity and gas in terms of purchasing power. So maybe we were scaring. Sometimes it might be better to scare more, because even the coalition will stop and do things differently, by the way. Don't say that again. We may have proposed a ceiling on electricity and gas prices, and Minister Síkela said it was populist, and a month later, you came up with it yourself. So maybe we scared you, and then you came up with it yourself. Maybe if we scared more, you came up with it sooner. But these are the facts I'm telling you about inflation, the decline in real wages and energy prices. Then I'll skip the lottery, we can say that in second, third reading, how it affects and what negative externality is within municipalities and cities. I'm not gonna hold up right now, just like the property tax. You said the property tax was one of the lowest in our country. That's right. Wait, that's right. That's not what I'm saying here. But you always have to take it as a whole. We have one of the lowest real estate taxes, but we have one of the highest social contributions. And you yourself are saying so much about what our tax quota is all about. If I take the things that we have below average and average them, and the ones that are above average, I let them be there, so obviously we're going to pay in taxes, we're going to do a lot more than all the other countries. It means, like, pulling one tax and saying, that's deep below the average, let's straighten it out, it's true, but it's not good enough for me. So much for a brief response to the Minister. And now, actually, what about the package that I called the tax-raising package for citizens and entrepreneurs that I see from my point of view. Several elements. You said you weren't gonna raise taxes, and then I'm gonna go back to it in detail, and you're gonna raise them. You promised to make a transparent policy, and the whole adoption of the package is not transparent for me. You guys were angry over the last term, when there were some proposals that worked retroactively, here for a few times, and you know I keep pointing that out on the microphone, you have some things that have at least indirect retroactivity. I miss the growth measures you promised. Anti-inflationary policy. For me, the things I'm going to talk about right now are more upside-down, and I'm missing business support. You promised to support the business, I think it's against it. When I start with the first one, you promised not to raise taxes. They're increasing. After all, these measures were to be built from two thirds to cut spending and one third to higher taxes. We've only been talking about the higher taxes for the last three months. They're already graspable. Everything else is a promise that can change 20 times. At the beginning of the year, you and the Prime Minister, you're monitoring it, they said they wouldn't raise taxes. That's what you said. You can't deny that. And now you're raising them. For me, the worst of this increase is corporate tax, and for VAT it's aqueous, sewerage, heat, part of the drugs from 10 to 12 percent. Real estate tax twice as much, it's more symbolic. It's not the absolute amount, but it's some kind of impulse to society, and, by the way, this tax, and even VAT, it's a pretty good upside-down measure. You had some of those taxes right in the campaign, that's what I was talking about. Transparency. That's what I miss there too, Minister. Such a package should be accepted at least predictablely, somehow consistent. You guys were releasing balloons. Let me remind you that the lower VAT rate is going to take 14. In the end, it's 12. The rapporteur is twisting, isn't he? We were on TV together, and it was supposed to be 14. In fact, it was said that the water, the flow, and the heat would be at the base rate, which means 21 percent. And I said, and it was on CNN Prima News that it was a released balloon and that it wouldn't turn out like this, and that we'd be so excited that it worked out better. It didn't end up like this. Yes, it's not 14, it's 12 and that's what's left at the bottom rate. Still, it went up by two percentage points. You discussed this for six months, but then you gave five days to settle your comments. And now I ask also for the opposition, what are we supposed to put the amendments to when you announce in advance, three ministers have announced that they are preparing the amendments after the first reading on this proposal. In fact, you approved this with the government, saying that you will be dealing with the amendments here. What are we supposed to make amendments for? On this original proposal, or on the amendment to the amendment? That's ridiculous! Does that seem transparent to you? The things my colleagues have said - 21 percent, 12 magazines, books 0. How does that make sense? What's the point of this? You said that VAT is not about more choice, but about more transparency. Where do you see her? Tap water 10, seasoned with lemon 21. Babies - 21 will be, won't they? At the press conference, one coalition party said it was 21, the other said it was 10. Make a deal! Coffee 21, milk 12. Food 12, drinks 21. Is that the clarity? I mean, don't be mad at me, nobody knows! You're saying prices will fall. Here's some circumstantial evidence on the food that it's going to drop from 15 to 12 percent. I have circumstantial proof that not much, because from books you propose that the decline be from 10 to 0 and that the publishers, publishers and bookstores tell you that there is no room for lowering the price of books. Or I've read now that it's going to be reduced by the ones who don't sell much anyway or something like that. And that's a ten-percent drop. Here's a three-percent drop at a time when you're also increasing corporate tax by two percentage points. So it's almost on the bet that I already have here with my colleague Havránek, if I remember correctly that this year's budget will not be 295 billion, is that correct? That there wasn't gonna be a novel. So he'll just be taller. So I'm almost willing to bet if food prices really fall by three percentage points. Point three - retroactivity. This is what we see in building savings, then we'll see in the changes in the pension system, but also in the ones we approved today, the excise duties on diesel. These are just things that happen in some way, and you suddenly change the rules for running contracts. I'll get to it a little bit later on the construction savings. That's totally unacceptable for me. Absolutely unacceptable! At least, at least the six-year binding period should be respected there, Minister! I'm speeding it up, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Growth measures are missing. You guys kept saying you were gonna make growth measures. What are they like? What are they like? Retail sales, if you look, fall 12 months in a row. Now, if you raise the taxes and people think more about what they're going to spend, then of course, the decline will continue. Where's the growth measure? I'd be happy to have the Minister say which one it is. For me, aggregate demand will fall and fall. We can talk about it, after all, the decline in real wages I mentioned here is the largest, highest of all countries, so it's circumstantial evidence. Anti-inflationary policy. These proposals, not all of them for me, are upside-down, because the increase in taxes is logically reflected in the increase in prices of goods and services. [[22.10 hours]] So it's upside down. Business support. Again, Minister, give me two or three examples of what you see here as supporting business as a right-wing government or as a right-wing entity part of that government. Yes, you canceled the EET, and then you increase the VAT on the same entrepreneurs, so they're gonna have to raise the price, and you're gonna raise the corporate tax. And now for the last two notes. Reasons for consolidation. You keep saying as a mantra that the previous government has indebted the country, and it began especially in the time of the covid. It's the compensation. And I've done my job here, Minister, and I can copy it for you, here's a list of the major amendments that you were putting up as opposition at the time, where the vast majority of them failed. If she had passed, the debt would have been hundreds of billions larger. So please don't ever say that the ANO movement has indebted the country spending at the time of the covid, because you have proposed the larger expenses. I'm just gonna pick some, 'cause otherwise we'd be here for an hour. Look how much it is! [[He's pointing.]] Each yellowed thing is one suggestion. So I'll get started. For example, Zbyněk Stanjura - it is a government proposal for a compensation bonus - increase the bonus from 500 to 600 crowns. Impact of the increase on the state budget 3.2 billion. Marian Jurečka suggests that in addition to all self-employed entrepreneurs should be entitled to the bonus in the form of s. r. o. I'm just skipping it. I'm going really fast. I don't want to keep you. I'll put it at your disposal to refresh your memory. Next. Marian Jurečka proposes to add to the draft an extension of the term of payment of VAT for the tax period of the calendar year 2020 by one year. Yes, it's a delay, but it would mean 150 billion in that year, just this one proposal. Over there when I see my colleague Vojtěch Munzar, I don't want him to be sad. The aim of the proposed amendment is to extend the range of persons who reach the compensatory bonus to the so-called "compensatory bonus." micro-enterprises. There. Zbyněk Stanjura - next. The proposed amendment aims to increase bonus amounts in the following bonus periods, and now there are bonus periods and those amounts. Like I said, I won't keep you. Věra Kovářová extends the family for the purposes of this law - another bonus, another compensation. For the purposes of this Act, members of one family shall be a relative up to the fourth grade. Věra Kovářová proposes the payment of a one-off non-refundable contribution to the regions of CZK 500 per capita. Maybe I'll ask, there's a noise...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u194	Yes, I'll ask my colleagues to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u195	So that's 500 kroner. So this is the money for the regions, for example, that it was blamed that there was little money on the edge, on the community. Now they have a lot of money in their accounts. We talked about it with the Minister, some 400 billion, but you wanted it back then, when you were in opposition, so don't get upset about it now! Here. Next. Marian Jurečka - remission of compulsory advances for health insurance premiums, pension insurance and contribution to state employment policy at the Ministry for the months October 2020 to March 2021. Forgive medical and social insurance contributions. That's another one. Compensation to regions, again 500 crowns per capita. The impact would be five billion in another proposal. Marian Jurečka - increase the daily amount of compensation bonus from CZK 500 to CZK 667. These are just examples. I won't hold up. That's proof that you're here... And these are specific things. It's not that I made it up. These are specific suggestions that can be downloaded from this... So you guys were designing the compensation bigger, more robust, so it's really unfair now, and I'm not saying what was right or wrong because the covid was just a thing that was new. I'm just upset that at one point you're suggesting compensation bigger, then it ends, then you're in the government and you're saying that we've been overcompensating a lot. Here's proof that it's not really like that. As far as the SAO report is concerned, it is similar, because if I read to you what the SAO has included there, because you also argue very often, it has just included compensation for regions and entrepreneurs. That's what I got here. Again, we can read it and we'll stretch it out again by 20 minutes. That would be a shame. That's the end of the line. Comparison of the lower VAT rate for food with other countries, where even though it is 12%, we are among the highest. There's only Finland with 14 percent above us. I'll save that for second or third reading. If I were to recapitulate, and actually to the second, third reading completely, now I've missed it because I've been talking for a long time, the whole aspect of building savings, because it's in itself for half an hour, because the building savings, I don't think that's really the way to do it. The way you suggest it, by cutting the pen, because you won't spare anything. You cut the support, the product basically disappears, these people stop borrowing, they stop investing back in their housing, so the koruna invested in building savings went back into the state budget, let's say one in four. If I recapitulate, the proposal seems incompetent to me that it's illogical, it's not pro-growth, it's not pro-growth measures, it's retroactive. It is inconsistent in the fact that at least one or two entities still promised not to increase taxes until the last moment. I don't remind you of the campaign before the election. I know the situation has changed, the war in Ukraine. I remind you of what you said after the election and what you said a few months ago. It is untransparable and unpredictable how you've been launching balloons here and how you've actually said that you're going to make amendments to this yourself. I will end with the sentence: the government is to start saving and abolishing three unnecessary ministries - the Ministry of European Affairs, for science, research and innovation and for legislation. The taxpayer does not want to pay for this, and there is a useless apparatus besides ministers. And now I'll tell you, I didn't say that originally, but this is what Miroslav Kalousek wrote. So I took it from him that way to use it, because I totally agree with it. In other words, it's not a criticism as someone might say from the left, but you have a criticism from the right. As I said, all other things like the VAT table, building savings, I'll tell you some ideas about living and log in either tomorrow or second, at third reading. I'll ask the Minister - thank you for sitting here all the time, if he could answer some of the things I put to him, and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u196	I, too, thank you, and before I give the floor to the Minister with priority rights, it is with the de facto remark of Mr Munzar. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u197	Thank you. I would like to respond very briefly to my colleague Nacher, through you. I don't want to be here about how wide the lockdowns were and all that. This has passed us by. On the other hand, I would like to recall only in fact from the report of the Supreme Audit Office of 2021, when the year-on-year increase in expenditure by CZK 291.2 billion between 2019 and 2020. Of which expenditure declared to prevent the spread of the pandemic of covid 144,6 billion, expenditure not related to the pandemic of covid 146,6 billion. That is, Mr Nacher does not like double standards, but let him not use half the truth because spending more than 50 percent did not relate to covid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u198	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister has withdrawn his application, so we come to the next speakers in the debate and now it is Mr Stržínek's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u199	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, allow me to comment on the Government's bill amending certain laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets. Yes, we are talking about a consolidation package, but it should be called a tax package. It is a material that hits a large group of citizens significantly and negatively - employees, entrepreneurs, companies, families, students and also seniors. The government's wannabe-saving package will mostly affect families with smaller children and with average income. This results from the model calculations of the consultancy BDO. According to this analysis, the average income family will cost CZK 44,000 a year due to the tax package of the current government. Five-calice has decided to look for savings in increasing taxes and disadvantages for our citizens. However, I believe that the consolidation of public finances should be based mainly on savings in the state's expenditure, not on tax increases. You have decided to punish all - working with higher income by reducing the limit for applying the tax rate of 23 %, self-employed persons by increasing the minimum assessment base for calculating social security premiums, employees by re-establishing insurance premiums on sickness insurance. You're increasing corporate tax from 19 to 21 percent, abolishing the tax advantage of many employee benefits, including the exemption of over-the-counter meal vouchers. You significantly limit your tax credit to your husband or wife, cancel the discount on your student and kindergarten fee, and there will be no new possibility to deduct the member contributions from trade unions. To make matters worse, the price of the motorway stamp will rise from CZK 1,500 to CZK 2,300, and the real estate tax will rise to double for some people. The warlords for the change in VAT rates are also worth mentioning. Total nonsense is three VAT rates for books, newspapers and magazines. According to the government's proposal, the pornographic magazine takes precedence over serious newspapers. Incomprehensible is the 21 percent VAT rate for bottled water, water and sewers will become more expensive, medicines, municipal waste, many services and drinks including draft beer. The announced changes to VAT rates will, in particular, affect low-income citizens. However, they have long been in pliers because of inflation, with which the government of Petr Fiala does nothing and which has reduced their incomes most in the history of our country and most of all of the OECD countries. Confusion associated with VAT changes can be used by a dishonest part of entrepreneurs to increase prices even more and to justify overestimating as a result of tax changes. The Czech Republic is one of the countries with the highest rate of reduced value added tax compared to the surrounding Central European countries. If the government consolidation package is approved by the House without changes, the difference between the lowest reduced VAT rate in the Czech Republic and other countries in Central Europe will deepen. The reduced VAT rate is introduced as measures to promote consumption in specific sectors and also serves to protect the basic needs of the population. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the state's decisions will make basic goods more expensive at the time of the highest historical decline in real wages in the Czech Republic and at the time when real wages fall most from all OECD countries. You're greatly increasing excise duties. At each economic school you will learn about the operation of the so-called first year. Lafferův's curves, which says that over a certain rate of taxation, the total amount of taxes collected is falling. In the years to come, I'm afraid we will be witnessing this very effect. Now let me look at the tax package with the eyes of the mayor of Valašský Meziříčí and focus on what will concern cities and municipalities. The explanatory memorandum states that the measures contained in the draft law do not have an impact on the local authorities or result from the nature and description of the measures themselves. So let me give you a few examples. Newly, the share of municipalities and cities in shared taxes, namely corporate taxes and personal income taxes from the current 25,84 to 25,72 % in 2024 and 24,47 % in 2025, is to be reduced. The VAT changes are said not to apply to municipalities, so if you have free public transport, like we do in Valmez. But if you do not, then the VAT increase for this service applies to you, of course. An increase in VAT on water and gutter is also not something we should go through with silence. It affects all citizens, but also cities and municipalities, their schools, kindergartens and sports grounds. Another sad chapter is the abolition of the exemption of non-cash benefits to employees and the reduction of funds to FKSP in the contribution organisations by half of 2% to one percentage. As a big problem I see so called. the reduction of allowances for labour agreements. Today there is no insurance policy for one employer from the agreements up to CZK 10,000. Why is that? Because our labor code has one of the strictest and most complicated rules and restrictions in the world. It is no wonder that employees and employers choose this form to make a profit. Two limits are now laid down for participation in the insurance of an employee who works under an agreement on the performance of work and thus limits on the payment of social security contributions. The explanatory memorandum states that, in order for the measure to be checked, the registration of all labour and income agreements under these agreements will be introduced. I don't want to recite this whole tragic reading. You have it on page 299 of the aggregate material, so perhaps only this: The employer is obliged to submit, in electronic form, the identification details of employees working on the basis of the DPP and the amount of income recognised by them in the calendar month, within the period prescribed for the payment of insurance premiums for the calendar month. On the basis of the premiums paid to an employee active under the employment agreement, the district social security administration records the period of his insurance for the period thus paid and provides data on these periods of insurance for each calendar year of the Czech Social Security Administration. The final result will be a huge increase in bureaucracy. A stamp where you can look! The government hasn't noticed how long it takes to grant pensions? The Czech Social Security Administration is collapsing without an economic package and is already on autopilot, as well as the Czech Post office or labour offices. And after 1 January, I fear that the entire government will collapse, because the government will cut their operating resources by 5% and pay by 2%. So I'm really curious about the whole digitalization! Without money, it just won't work. Why should cities be interested in the salaries of civil servants? First of all, because of the employees themselves. Real wages have already reduced their third largest inflation in the European Union, and now the government - the main culprit of this bronze medal - is coming to arrive. Second, because it will probably have a little brother in reducing the contribution to the delegation, the municipalities and cities are already paying in total in the billions of the state administration that the state is ordering for them, but they are not paying in full. A further decline in the contribution to the exercise of the delegated powers will thus jeopardise the performance of certain activities. If the government wanted to be serious, it would say which activities we wouldn't have to do. We'll never know. Finally, I will touch on a change that is fundamentally relevant to the whole of Wallachia, which is an increase in excise duty rates from alcohol, including from slivovitz, by 10 percent in 2024 and by 5 percent in each year from 2025 to 2027. For years we were crushed in Wallachia and now Fiala and Stanjura! Let's get this over with! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u200	Thank you, too. And before I pass on the floor to the next person in the order of Mr Karel Rais, as Vice-President Skopeček rightly pointed out, there was a hundred crown in the foyer, so please, if anyone misses it, it is here to be picked up. And now the Member has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u201	Have a good evening, especially the finder or owner of the hundred crown. [[Laughs in the hall.]] And I will return to my contribution, which I have divided into two parts. For one thing, I would like to address one particular problem where, in part 18 of the draft law on the consolidation of the public budget, I think there has been some misunderstanding or, say, an error, and I would like to look at this in a little more detail. And then, as the second part, I would devote more or less to the general situation and impact of the package on the education department. I assume that science and research will be dealt with by one of the remaining 40 Members. If I didn't, I'd sign up at the end of it. About that particular problem. As I said - part 18 of the bill on the consolidation of public budgets, there I think the intervention is both unfounded and unfounded, because it is an intervention in the self-government position of public universities. My point relates to the three headings of the proposed change, namely, first, the determination of the use of the social fund at least 50 per cent on pension savings instruments, or where the autonomy of universities was, they say that we should invest the funds in the pension savings area. Moreover, more or less the government wants to - it determines the use of the social fund and the social fund balances before the proposed legal regulation is effective, so I return to what the previous speakers said here, it's about retroactivity again. And thirdly, it's a 50 per cent reduction in social fund creation, which means from 2 per cent to 1 per cent. Why do I think there's gonna be trouble here? On the one hand, because it will be difficult to motivate employees to use pension savings benefits, because younger employees knowingly and fundamentally rejected these forms here, both for distrust justified by the long-term fixation of funds and their inflationary depreciation until their actual maturity, that is perfectly logical, for the increasingly less favourable conditions of innovative pension products as a result of past reforms compared to previously concluded contracts, and then it is also a question of economy and competence, which I would stop at, in particular, when money is allocated to the social fund by a college on the basis of its own budget decision of the self-government bodies and is not the funds of the State designated to them. So I believe that it is unacceptable to establish a binding way of using them, because it is the means for wages and not the means for pension insurance. If the State wants to improve the pension paid in the future, it does so in the form of an increase in social insurance. The Social Fund is intended to serve all school employees, including those who do not decide to enter the third pillar of pension insurance. I believe that by establishing a binding use of 50 per cent of the social fund for pension contributions it is inadmissible to interfere with the self-government of higher education institutions, and this is, in my view, also based on Stakeholders, such as the Board of Higher Education and other higher education institutions, from which I have also drawn the material, so these authorities believe that there is this retroactivity, as I have already spoken, and consider it unacceptable that the State should determine the use of funds that have been aggregated by universities in the past, at a time when there was no such restriction at all. So this is an unacceptable retroactive change in the management of the property of universities, which is made up of a balance on their social funds. And it is similar to how if we set citizens a binding way to make use of their savings. I believe that the authors did not realize that universities are not budget organisations, and so if it should be used, it can be used to the maximum for two state universities, which are in the Czech Republic, as I said, are only two of the totals, and this is the University of Defence and the Police Academy, which are like organizational branches of the state or their units (?), they have the FKSP, for whose creation they seem to receive funding under the state budget. This is probably where the state could apply these tools. I am talking about this because, on the one hand, the rest of the representations, the rest of the universities consider it to be a reduction of the maximum limit on the creation of the social fund to 1% as a certain unwarranted intervention in the self-government of universities. The State should leave to public universities, which are neither the organisational components of the State nor its contribution organisations and are autonomous by law, whether it will be formed and how much the social fund will be made up. So this is the particular problem on which I believe that we should write an amendment and be addressed in detail. Otherwise, when I look at education as a whole, it is strange when I compare the government's programming statement, both the first or the second one, which we haven't actually discussed here, that, on the one hand, the programming statement talks about how important it is to invest in the Ministry of Education and Science, research, how important it is to support this area, and on the other hand, as I think Mr Babiš said here, that essentially the most affected resort in the area of planned savings is the Ministry of Education. We should get a record of CZK 29 billion less than in 2023, or instead of 255 billion, it should be 226 billion in 2024. So, on the one hand, it's an even greater decline than the government said, 10 percent, but most importantly, I think there's a contradiction between actions and promises. I find it rather scandalous that the current Czech universities are to lose more than CZK 2 billion for next year, the Academy of Sciences is CZK 600 million. And it is clear that, as in the case of science, the financing of education in relation to GDP has been trivial for several years, and the trend will more or less deteriorate. I am curious because I remember, unfortunately, I may remember the promises of government to university unionists, who gave the previous Minister of Education Baláž about the fact that schools will be funded and at that price they didn't even go to the streets, especially those humanely oriented faculties. And I wonder - the billion or so far, the billion promised by the previous Minister of Education, I only see in sight. [[2.40 hours]] If we look at the financial resources in detail, that's what I've been saying here, a promise of 130 per cent to teachers at the level of secondary and primary schools hasn't been fulfilled, either, and I'm passing on how miserable the work of non-teaching economic apparatus workers, type of chefs or cooks, janitors and so on. It seems to me a little bit, which I have also heard here once before that the government's actions are in the spirit of a proverb - it preached water to drink and it drank wine itself. We are required to do something that is basically not fulfilled at the level of resorts, here in the Department of Education is required to meet 10 percent and more percent, are made cuts and at the departments of the Ministry, I think they have softer requirements. I think it's necessary, I could put some more numbers here, but I think it's pointless now. It is simply necessary to appeal that the share of the state budget's expenditure on education on GDP remains at least preserved in the current crisis, if it is no longer possible to raise it to a standard in developed countries. I believe that although there is a crisis period, we should try to make better conditions for education than it is. A completely separate chapter then at all levels of education is the question of monitoring, evaluation of quality and comparison with Western countries, as is basically normal to the west of Prague. I think that's a completely separate matter. So to conclude this, the particular problem of creating a social fund, I would like to address this through the amendment, where I would quite welcome it if someone joined the coalition, and then there is the permanent wage deficit, of course we will still talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u202	Thank you, too. Next up is Mr Novák. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u203	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, we have here on the table a government bill that she called a five-wheeler a consolidation package or a recovery package. In order not to end up telling old friends and medically uncomfortable - the surgery was successful, the patient died. It is nothing more than an attack on the wallets of citizens, businessmen and companies. It's a clean tax package. You're presenting a complex of changes and adjustments that don't address the consolidation of public finances, but maybe now they'll solve the empty wallet of the Minister of Finance. Doubt and the word "maybe" really belong to me, because so far none of the government's measures have brought a sense of public finance management. All it brings and brings and brings will be the loss of taxpayers' funds, and, on the other hand, no commitment or obligation of the State to save as well. But I'm afraid that's what you're good at - partying and citizen, pay up. We have before us a list of things that will make this government more expensive for people to continue the grand feast at their expense. And unfortunately, it doesn't matter to the government that it takes money for science, research, education, health care and much more. Your government doesn't care that it takes money from families, seniors, students, businessmen and companies - especially to be on various party prebendes, warm spots for your supporters and unsuccessful political candidates. We often wonder if some ministers are still among us, because at least in this House there is no sign of them. And unfortunately, this catastrophic party will continue until the end of the term of office. Therefore, it would be best to reject this matter at first reading, to get back together and go back to your constituents, to ask for confidence again, and to apologize to them for the untruths you told them. And that's when the bird is trapped, that's close to you. By the way, recently some coalition politicians here have calculated how much the day of the work of the Chamber of Deputies is worth. I would turn it around - how much would the Republic save if the government of Petr Fiala had done nothing and closed itself at the premieres at the cottage. Or maybe we could have also forgiven ourselves today and saved ourselves the money we needed, as you often say. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer expand a number of critics, because I would certainly repeat myself in many cases, I want to focus positively on the real correction of state finances. The gradual consolidation of public finances is important and there is a consensus that it needs to be consolidated, but it needs to be treated primarily during the period of economic growth, as you blame us, but on the other hand, I can always say that your actions on the part of the opposition at the time did not go to this at all. The Czech economy is stagnating under the current government, not achieving the economic growth of OECD countries, but a happy five-wheel economy, and with pomp, it itself repeats textbook economic errors. We're going back to the deep past. Once again, the ODS-led government has put tens of thousands of households in poverty, caused massive social unrest, the collapse of thousands of companies, and its ingenuity has caused our republic to be one of the longest affected countries in the so-called zero years. Do you remember that? Please remember what caused this. The state, under the leadership of the current government, has disposed of effective tax collection measures, and the rest is not developing. As a result, it loses control of the revenue side of the budget. The Fialův government is indifferent to its own failings in drawing European money and not making pro-growth investments, instead taking senseless loans. Contrary to government declarations, it increases the operating expenditure of the state, establishes new ministries and strengthens the expensive apparatus of civil servants. In your case, he can only underline old friends - promises, mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the possible solutions? Follow up on a gradual budget consolidation plan presented by the Government in 2021. He plans to reduce the structural deficit by half a percent a year. The main pillars include reducing the amount of money for the operation of the state agenda through the merger of agendas using reasonable digitisation of the state administration. It is the merger and cancellation of agendas that can help reduce the operating expenditure of chapters by between 5 and 10 percent - and this is the right way - but not by regulation or decision, but by rational optimization and automation of processes in the administration. Likewise, there must be an abolition of unnecessary ministries. Yes, it is the ministries that you have created, the current government, because there are just too many of you and you had to share somehow. Emphasis must be placed on the effective drawing of 962 billion of European Union funds from the programming period 2021 to 2027. How do you draw? Instead of raising taxes, it is necessary to establish a successful fight against tax evasion. [[2.50 hours]] But you didn't. You're doing everything you can to make the gray economy bloom. A proven philosophy of the ANO movement has always been to collect more taxes without having to increase their rates. The fight against tax evasion, on the one hand, helps to ensure fair taxation for all citizens and companies, but also, of course, creates additional revenue for the state budget, the very revenue that can be used for public services and the development of the economy. Last but not least, it also strengthens public confidence in the tax system. It wants to continue implementing the action plan to control transfer prices of multinational corporations and active analysis of data from control reports. Without information, you will never be able to manage the economy. It is necessary to extend the competence of the Customs Administration in the area of tax evasion detection, to set fair rules for a shared economy. What did you do for it? You have completely absurdly cancelled one of the tools for effective tax collection, EET. And what does that mean for a citizen? To have cash, because whoever can accept payments only in cash. That's a good one. What's next? Continue the foreseeable increase in some excise duties, but in particular taxes on tobacco products, hard alcohol and gambling, as well as promote taxation of multinational corporations at European level. The increase in these excise duties does not have such a negative impact on economic growth as the increase in income taxes or corporate taxes. And that's just the wrong thing to do. We've been talking about raising vice taxes for a long time. They could have been counted back in 2023, but unfortunately, Minister Stanjura did not make it at his working pace, so nothing. The next step is a consistent revision of tax exemptions, which, in addition to positive fiscal impacts, will reduce the administrative complexity of the tax system. However, your revision brings further chaos and demotivates young people to start families and raise new taxpayers. So I rather call these new taxpayers - promising children and our future. It is necessary to continue the modernisation of the tax system and to increase the efficiency of the online financial office, in particular by developing an understandable user environment for all taxes and situations. This proved to be particularly successful in the case of covido. Remember before the covide, it spat on the eRecipe - and today it's suddenly such a great tool that everyone praises? Do you realize that your approach is to prevent innovation and the introduction of effective processes? Another recovery moment is the gradual reduction in the number of public sector employees due to reasonable digitization and merger of agendas. Moreover, this measure will also help the labour market. We have the lowest employment in all countries of the European Union, we need competitiveness in the labour market. We want effective tax collection, which is primarily a reduction in the grey economy for us, and the return of the basic EET. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's tax package, which has wrapped five-parta in a package called Consolidation of Public Budget, is nothing more than a simple tax increase that will have a negative impact on economic growth for several reasons. Consumption and investment restrictions, tax increases reduce disposable incomes of households and businesses. Higher taxation will lead to a decrease in consumption, which will affect the sector dependent on domestic consumption. It will also reduce investment by companies, as higher tax burdens will reduce the profitability of these investments. And if you look, today just came up with a graph about cooling down corporate investment. In the period of the highest decline in real wages from all OECD countries, it is extremely irresponsible to reduce real disposable household incomes by raising taxes. In addition, the reduction in competitiveness. Thanks to you, our companies, they'll be more expensive than the others. Do you realize that? Another influence is the negative impact on the business environment. High taxes simply discourage business and the creation of new companies, and that is already happening in reality. What are you doing here to keep companies from running away from us? The other day, I was reminding you of the entrepreneurs in the crypto industry, their real problems. What did you do for them? Nothing yet! I hope it changes. But these are also the taxpayers who are really running abroad today, and worse, they are already fleeing to Slovakia. That's awful! The negative effect is also the suppression of innovation, because high taxes will clearly reduce investment in research and development, and this will reduce the ability to innovate, introduce new technologies, which will have a long-term negative impact on economic growth. But unfortunately, you can only see the end of the term, and that's very sad! The growth of the gray economy. Higher taxes have historically proven to lead to an increase in tax evasion. People and companies will try to find ways to reduce their tax liabilities, which will ultimately lead to a reduction in the state's tax revenue. Negative impact on small businesses. Higher taxes will be particularly difficult for small businesses, precisely for those with fewer resources and low profitability. They will survive, optimize on the side of tax obligations and eventually close and end. Ladies and gentlemen, given all these factors of your so-called influence. Consolidating public budgets can only be said: By simply and simply increasing taxes and growth in Purple, you will slow down economic growth, reduce the standard of living of our citizens, and reduce the competitiveness of our companies. Tax policy should be thought-out and balanced so as not to restrict business, consumption, investment and innovation. In other words, higher taxes are not and will never be the best and only solution for reducing budget deficits. On the contrary, reducing taxes on certain types of business or investment can encourage growth and competitiveness. Creative and prudent fiscal policy management can ensure that consolidation is carried out in a way that minimises negative impacts on economic growth. Dear government, will you finally admit that you took the wrong turn? Colleagues, colleagues who have listened must be clear to him only. This attempt by the Fialův Government to restore public finances contains a large number of schoolboy errors. If what is presented to us is passed, it will hurt our republic for a very long time, and this is historically proven. I am addressing the five-wheelers in particular with a request. Prove you're good businessmen. Let us finally talk about the real reform of public finances across, as you have declared, and find a systematic and long-term functional solution. Above all, such a solution that the next government will not have to change from scratch, and believe that once your government of theorists and delayed politicians has ended, it will be a lot of work to fix what you have done here so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u204	Have a good evening, everyone. Thank you and please another duly logged or logged in - Mrs Lenka Knechtová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u205	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, Mr Prime Minister, Czech politics, instead of programme clashes, is borne by negative emotions. We have had 10 years of Antizemana, and Antibabiš has been going on for about six years, and, as was seen at today's meeting, this debate will clearly hold. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said that indignation is not a program. And what it means, we're living right now. In the country, there is a coalition of five parties, which was able to combine only the fear of Andrej Babiš and the hatred of him, which seems almost archetypal. The fundamental problem with this negative idea of blindness is that from the point of view of a positive program, nothing connects them at all. The second problem with this government is that what might be overlooked in times of calm, content and fat is too visible in this turbulent time when we are dealing with state finances and when Europe is struggling with the crisis, both at energy, security, has problems with inflation and ultimately with economic recession. The problem with this government group is, above all, that it tries to rule by force and with a sense of 108 votes and tries to enforce anything. Indeed, the constitutional lapsus government demonstrated when it prepared an updated programming statement, but did not bother to come to the House with it and ask for confidence again. The government is clearly responsible to the House and the House is primarily assessing the government according to the programming declaration on which it has confidence. Therefore, if the House and, in fact, the citizen want to judge the government, it must be based on a programming statement that gives the government confidence and governs. The prepared and modified programming declaration, which did not arrive in the House, is actually worth a non-binding essay exercise, which only concerns the Government's resolution. It is an objective fact that for the fourth year, the state budget has been burdened with enormous extraordinary spending - covido measures, the reduction of the social impact of the energy crisis, the costs of the war in Ukraine. This is a continuous burden mainly on public finances. As a result, the government is facing an unprecedented deficit in the state budget, the solution of which complicates the crisis that has now affected the pension system. If there were similar positive programmes for the party's government, they could lean on common ideas and sort of solve the problem together. The concept of such a solution could then be agreed or disagreed with. But what we have on the table right now is more of a general embarrassment. The government has presented a rescue package to citizens, trying to create the impression that it is saving the economy. He's not. It saves only the state budget in a way that will clearly have negative effects on our economy. The increase in taxes associated with the destabilisation of the VAT system cannot have a positive impact on the economy of our country by its very nature. The solution that the government is attempting has only one unified idea, and that is to get the money into the state budget, take where you take it. Where to get it? The government that you're trying to raise money at all costs has two choices. It can push taxes, or it can take inventory of what the state is doing, and ask whether the state is ultimately not doing much, or in what quality and whether it is doing it effectively. The key question is how to measure efficiency. našinec would expect that the key source of money will be the savings that will arise by reducing the state, but it doesn't seem that way at the moment. No one is surprised that the Czech Republic has half a million civil servants with less than six million economically active citizens. Interestingly, the government has an audit of the state authorities directly in the programming declaration. Whoever saw the series Sure, Minister, will understand easily why there is no audit or miracle. The only part of the government's rescue package that has something right-wing in it is the intention to cut the subsidies. Cutting subsidies is certainly a commendable intention, or subsidies distort the market, undermine competitiveness and, last but not least, create a corrupt environment. It's good up to here, but it's still early for applause. The fundamental problem is the name of the European Union. And there could be a major problem with these farmers. The government wants to cut agricultural subsidies by CZK 10 billion. If we were in a standard market environment, then everything would be fine. However, we are surrounded by countries of the European Union that massively subsidize their agriculture, and we are the importer of these subsidised products. And unfortunately, these imports will rise. If we do not subsidize our agriculture similarly massively, we will become unable to compete. The specific chapter of the government package is taxes and, above all, trends that open up. The primary question is why the government goes into VAT. The transition from three rates to three rates will, according to the government's forecast, lead to a reduction in tax revenue. The statement that the government will be fighting inflation is theoretically making sense, but in fact the amount of 6.3 billion in the possible inflation impact is quite negligible. It is certain that the current VAT system is run and established and its change for some time will bring chaos and uncertainty. The excise duties are increasing. Those are always the question of where their hijacking ceiling is for citizens. If, in the case of commodities of a type of gasoline, it traditionally makes excise duty plus VAT more than the commodity's own price, it is at least striking. But the current wave of increases in excise taxes is particularly striking by the rhetoric that the government is following. The government says they're gonna raise vice taxes. Today it's tobacco, alcohol, bets. The question, however, is what the government will call us next. Sweet drinks, fat meat? It is only funny that the government has repeatedly justified individual increases by the fact that this, too, is on average higher in the European Union than in the Czech Republic. So this is a government recovery plan for public finances of the Czech Republic in form. That the Czech Republic is below the European Union average in the rate of redistribution cannot certainly be seen as a shortage. Moreover, the government should always compare the tax burden on citizens with the outside world compared to the parity of purchasing power. Why is that conceptually wrong? There is only one way out of the economic crisis, and that is private sector activity. It's the only one that creates added value. By increasing all types of taxes - direct, indirect, natural persons, legal persons - the government cuts the ability of this productive part of society. No solution in which it is primarily about getting more money into the system can come from the state, because it is not from the definition of productive. The state only creates added value by redistributing the money generated in the private sector. Something as senseless as so-called. war tax also cannot function systemically. It would certainly be conceptual if the government did a revision of energy policy instead of war tax. However, this is being addressed centrally at European Union level, and the latest reports say that it is getting tougher. But even if it doesn't work, the result will be something better suited to large European countries such as France or Germany and worse to no one at all. Finally, the issue of preparing the tax package remains from a professional point of view. Where is the initial analysis that would present and evaluate the effects on inflation, on individual household groups and on companies and plus, what does the Ministry of Finance do for better tax collection? That's why I'm joining the motion to return to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u206	Thank you, Madame. And please another duly registered Mr Kott. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u207	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, in my contribution I would like to focus on the problems that I feel in the Czech agricultural sector, and I will begin with the idea that agriculture itself has problems that other entrepreneurs cannot imagine outside the agricultural sector. Farmers are struggling with adverse weather every year, i.e. climate change, uncertainty brings about changing subsidy conditions every year, and there are insufficient solutions to the issue of unfair commercial practices that create an incomparable position for Czech producers within the food chain. The farm is occupied by industrial zones, shopping centres and the construction of satellite towns. The area for farming, where they can manage, is thus decreasing year after year. Moreover, in the countryside, land traffickers are rampant, buying land and then either selling it or renting it for a number of times higher amounts. What became such a hit that the land is bought by speculators, but also by large investment companies not only from the Czech Republic. It's a good business for them, and farmers pay for it. With the price of agricultural land, the price of deed increases. This comes with tightening the conditions of farming in fulfilling agricultural objectives so-called. Green agreements, which, by the way, after today's European Parliament negotiations, is again a significant step forward, in my opinion, to the detriment of all of us, and whose implementation increases disproportionate costs in a number of areas and can be for some to be liquidated. The green criteria could cut farmers off from the available finances and thus continue to jeopardise the competitiveness of the whole sector, not only the large farmers, but also the small ones. In addition to the long-term problems, the agricultural sector has had several difficult years to face the consequences of the coronavirus crisis, which followed the war in Ukraine, which is still ongoing, and the associated energy, fuel prices, but also fertilisers. The situation in livestock production and the cultivation of demanding crops, such as fruit, vegetables, potatoes or hops, is critical today, where production is threatened with a sharp decline. Last year, the minister, today the ex-minister, Nekula promised to promote financial assistance, but today, unfortunately, everything is different. Government efforts to consolidate public budgets mean another significant deterioration of the conditions for agriculture, for our farmers. In its government statement, the government has committed, among other things, to providing investment subsidies to farmers and to setting clear rules for drawing them up. And how is that really? In the consolidation package, the government expects to reduce subsidies for farmers by CZK 10.2 billion. But so far, nobody knows exactly where to cut, because the national agricultural subsidies for this year are only 2.7 billion crowns. In the agricultural resort we will save over 10 billion in the next two years, reducing investment subsidies in particular. This was written again on his Twitter today by the ex-minister Mr Nekula and this is how information is received from the Ministry to farmers. True, we later learned that programme 13 will also be abolished, i.e. supporting the processing of agricultural products and increasing the competitiveness of the Czech food industry, but even in this programme it has been cut off and 230 million remained in it compared to the previous year when there were 750 million. But even here, the promised rules are relatively illegible. Then we have a government promise that farms will not be burdened with unnecessary administration. Contrary to this, the government is proposing a reduction in the contributions for labour agreements. The Government's proposal newly sets two limits for participation in employee insurance, which works so-called to the DPP. The first limit will be set for the DPP for one employer, amounting to 25 per cent of the average wage, and the second limit will be set for the creation of multiple DPP participations for multiple employers, i.e. 40 per cent of the average wage. If the staff member exceeds one or the other limit, the premium will also be paid. In order for the measure to be controlled, registration of all workers, income from these agreements, will be introduced. I must remind you that agriculture is one of the sectors where these agreements are used quite often for both seasonal and impact work. The government proposal also dramatically increases the bureaucratic burden not only on the state side, but also on the employer's side in my opinion. It will have to submit applications and agreements, submit monthly statements of employees to the DPP and their earnings, verify whether the negotiator does not work elsewhere, and if so, how much he made there in the current month, which may also be very difficult. The current practice is to have a contract with the negotiator for a whole year, even if the employer uses it only shockingly, as I said. Now there is likely to be a shortened repetition of the conclusion of contracts, so that employees do not appear to other employers as already employed. In addition to the unprecedented increase in bureaucratic burden, in my opinion, there will also be an increase in costs on the part of the employer. It cannot be expected that the negotiators would agree to a wage reduction if they exceeded the 40 per cent set limit of the average monthly earnings. Furthermore, the government proposes to introduce a general limit for the exemption of other income, that is, income other than from employment and from business income tax. It is proposed to unify the limit for the exemption of other income in Section 10 of the Income Tax Act to CZK 50,000 and to abolish the special adjustment of bee-keeping income. In the statement of reasons, the petitioner states that the proposed changes can be considered to have a positive impact on public budgets, as some professional beekeepers make use of an exception setting out a fictitious amount of income from one colony to be casual and, for example, in an exemption scheme serving for 200 hives, as he says, formalized on family members and thus not taxing bee-keeping income. Dané causes distortion in particular in relation to standard-business beekeepers. In my opinion, this is gross untruth and basically an insult to the overwhelming majority of beekeepers. According to official data of the Czech Society of Breeders, which keeps the central register of hives, there are 65 000 bee breeders in the Czech Republic and the vast majority have one to fifteen hives. Breeders with more than 150 hives are 150. A third of breeders are in retirement age, the average age of the breeder is 60 years. Rather than filing a tax return, I think they'd rather let bees winter on honey, they wouldn't piss off the last honey, and it could only have one effect on consumption in the Czech Republic, and that it would actually be less honey, and we'd be able to get honey here that's not controlled, whether it's from Turkey or other countries that use much easier controls than in the Czech Republic. In my opinion, honey will be scarce and the use of deductible items is at risk of a large burden for tax administration being of zero benefit. Other comments concern the Czech Moravian Breeding and Seed Association and, last but not least, the Union of Distillers, with whose comments the relevant ministries probably did not deal fully enough. I will end with my colleagues trying to prepare amendments for second reading, where I believe that we will be able to eliminate shortcomings and level out the competitive environment for Czech entrepreneurs. I believe, Minister, that you see my speech as a support and an effort to help Czech agriculture, food industry and, in fact, as I have talked about beekeepers, as well as the respect for such a prized diverse Czech landscape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u208	I thank you and ask Mrs Ožanová for her contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, thank you to all those who have endured and are present in the hall at this hour. Seven hundred twenty-three. What's that? Number of parties to the bill. I must say that this really requires discussion, so let us not be surprised that it is a little long, but I will only comment on three circles. Of course, when I read it, I wanted to comment on more, but I'm only going to stay on three circuits. I've got it divided into chapters. First, a chapter called government contribution to the grey economy, cash above all else. I decided to go back in time until November 25th. Last year. At the time, I spoke in the third reading on printing 177 regarding the cancellation of sales records. I would like to quote part of my performance at the time with regard to what I read in the press regarding payment in cash and the like. So I quote from November last year: One of the reasons why small retailers and restaurants in small villages even considered cash-free payments was the compulsory introduction of EET, and thus the forced step of some level of digitalisation. I remind you that digitization is also the flagship of this coalition. Not only in my personal experience, but also in the experience of my surroundings, especially in hospitality, there is a part of entrepreneurs refusing credit card payments. After all, many of my colleagues before me spoke of this. After all, my personal experience is that I do not have lunch without an emergency in Czech and Moravian spa towns. After the cancellation of the EET, it can be assumed that this smart business practice will also move to other municipalities and cities. But these companies cannot do without a wider network of ATMs around them, and this is what we are trying to help smaller communities. This is not how I comment on the situation, but Ondřej Kozák, CEO of Euronet ČR. According to recent research by STEM/MARK for Euronet ATM providers, 60 per cent of people are the main reasons for payment in cash that the trader does not accept credit cards. One person in four pays in cash every day. A quarter of Čech also prefer it to a credit card. Half of the people would like more ATMs in their locations. Thirty-one percent of those contacted said that they had an ATM very far away from their residence. I remind you that at the second reading of the bill, I have already expressed myself on the issue of cash-free payments. She had a coalition on 23. 6th of this year - I remind you that this is last year's text - one excellent argument, a sharp increase in the volume of cash-free payments, when last year it was about 60 per cent and over 2-3 years experts estimate that the share of cash-free payments is supposed to rise to 80 per cent of all sales. No, I'm not an expert, but I dare say that the expected growth of cashless payments, as estimated by experts at 80 percent, is a chimera or simply a wishful thinking. If I can no longer pay by card for lunch in Luhačovice, Karlovy Vary, and as I have heard from my colleague Havlíček, even in other tourist destinations, the situation will certainly not improve by abolishing the EET. If I want to spend my vacation in our beautiful country again, I will first have to pick up a large amount of cash or have a properly mapped network of ATMs in the recreation area. I think that the cancellation of EET payments will not only slow down, but also stop, or even turn in the opposite direction. End of quote. Yes, it has to do with the tax package. I guess I'm a prognostic or a psychic, or I'm just using common sense. I'll quote one more sentence from my speech last year. The quoted sentence: "I expect a tendency towards a grey economy, an increase in the number of cash transactions, nowhere recorded, but of which it is quite obvious that taxes will not be actually paid. " I remember this especially when I read various prints recently, for example after the Karlovy Vary Film Festival, we learn from the Internet that it was not possible to pay with a card. On Twitter, we learned that the big dance show in Ostrava Beats for Love, there was nowhere to pay with a card. Sorry, only in the VIP zone, so only VIPs could pay with a card, but the others had to line up at ATMs. Next, we learn from the newspaper that camps in the Czech Republic will accept payment for accommodation, or no one will buy anything without cash. In addition, yesterday's commentary Léko István with the title Cash is king jumped at me today. The return of cash payments tells of the attempt by traders to steal back from the state in taxes. I don't know what you're getting out of this, but I'm basing an expansionary development of the gray economy, and it doesn't really look like it's developing cash-free contact, like the Ministry of Finance painted last year. Instead of effectively collecting taxes, you increase taxes and contribute to the growth of the grey economy. Chapter two, it will be very short. It's called digitalization, yes, but not for all alike. I welcomed the proposal to digitize the log blocks. You're mostly familiar with the term "paper" that a policeman gives you for glass. But perhaps digitalization only affects police and customs. Why don't you prepare the digitization of paper-based command blocks in this area also for any other authorities that use them? Of course, when I read the wording of the law with the marked changes, it is also possible to use paper blocks, because it will not always be possible to use the electronic ones, but I believe that all the authorities using this command procedure should have the option, and not only police and customs, so digitalization only for someone. Moreover, there is, of course, deferred efficiency until 2025, because the state has to prepare for it. I acknowledged with gratitude this acceleration, but again in half. Chapter three, I'll be done, colleagues, you can look forward to it - they preach water, they drink wine. According to the explanatory memorandum, it is proposed to reduce the amount of government salaries by 2 per cent following the reduction of state agendas, including the organisational components of the state and the contribution organisations, and in line with the strategy to consolidate public finances, the government will reduce expenditure on the operation of individual ministries, central government institutions, thereby demonstrating the commitment to start on its own. There will be an overall reduction of more narrow operating expenditure of 5 per cent per resort. After reading this information from the explanatory memorandum, I remembered the construction period of this government. Many requirements for functions, but few places. Since the beginning of its reign, this government has declared how it will save on the state administration. It is she who has been setting up more and more places for her faithful since the first day in office. Immediately after the takeover of power by this government, for example, there was an increase of 74 people at the Office of the Government. These were the new ministers and their personal apparatus. The question arises, how about consolidating the abolition of ministries newly created on the basis of the need to satisfy coalition partners? Just remember last year when the coalition pushed through an amendment to the Civil Service Act. Why am I talking about this? Because once again, there was an increase in the number of management positions. Not the executives you need at the employment office and elsewhere, but the executives. Previously, there was a limitation in the Civil Service Act of the possibility of each minister to have only two Deputys of a member of the government, then called. Political Deputys. How is it now after a successful amendment and the rejection of any ceiling on the number of Deputys' positions? Under the law of his political deputy, the minister can have as much as he wants and as much as the budget can bear. Yes, I've heard of a gentleman's agreement that there will be three at the most. But there really isn't, and this agreement can change at any time. But that doesn't change the fact that they won't do it for free, and in the next parliamentary term, everyone will probably say goodbye to some agreement on the number of Deputys. Could it really not have been possible to prevent economic losses and to stop the number of Deputys? In the explanatory statement, you say you'll start with yourself. Really? I really don't! You preach water, you drink wine! [[23.30 hours]] You build jobs for your faithful and new ministries. I forgot one more thing, I expect considerable savings on the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If it is inspired by top constitutional actors and diplomatic contacts in the place of objects representing the Czech Republic and its products and so on, it will dedicate T-shirts with appropriate printing to its counterparts. I just hope they're not made in China! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u210	Thank you, Madame. And another of the entries is Mr David Pažák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u211	Good evening. I'm gonna take this a lot of shortcuts, because there's been a lot going on here, and I'd like to ask more or less about two or three things about the finance minister who's left here alone. I was really looking forward to having Mr. Marian Jurečka here earlier, asking him, because it concerns him, as well as the new Minister of Agriculture. Now, I don't mean it badly, ironically, but I think it concerns us. Three things. An increase in real estate tax. We're a little worried as farmers about this being reflected in the price of rent. That last year we had more or less a problem with the introduction of the redistributive payment to the first hectares, so all the rents in the Czech Republic increased and, of course, this will then be reflected in the prices of food or products produced by farmers. And, of course, we fear that this increase in real estate tax will somehow go further into the products that farmers do, and whether it would not be necessary to consider the coefficient in some way for agricultural land and forest land to change, perhaps, in amendments. That's one thing. The second thing I'd like to know is what made you want to change the terms of the job agreement, the dppéčka, because I think it worked. Firstly, they use it for both seasonal workers and various associations and so on, as my colleague Kott has already said, so I think it worked. In fact, more or less, no one had to claim anyone, log out. It was about paying a tax for the person once a month, giving him some wages, and I think it was without any administrative burden, and at the moment the proposal, as it is there, so I think that all the staff, whether administrative in the company or separately, will have an impact on the finances, because some, for example, if I take it out of the agricultural sector, some are keeping accounting and, of course, these operations that someone is going to do for them, they're going to get paid. So if it really is going to be the kind of benefit that's worth changing the thing that I think works? That's the second thing. And the third thing concerns a little bit of the environment. Why did you put fuel wood, chips and pellets in an increased VAT rate when we're here to support the boilers, whether our government or your government, environmentally friendly boilers, and on the other hand, we're going to tax them what we're putting in that boiler to feed and work. I think it might be pretty crucial for a normal family, because if you take that-- I don't know if today's pellets cost 10 kroner plus minus-- let's make it count, if you eat 50 kilos a year in a family house, you've got $5,000 a year, which you're gonna get in addition to that VAT increase, than if it were at that reduced rate. That's another thing. And the last such small thing, why are the flowers in the flower box with VAT other than the flowers cut? Thank you. I'm not saying I'd expect an answer right now, but maybe over the next few hours and tomorrow, if you're going to answer something, I'd quite like to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u212	Thank you, and I see a reaction here - with the de facto Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u213	The answer to question number three is that one of those species is classified as food. The answer to question number two. The problem is, what you're talking about, it means a standard job agreement, it doesn't change, even the limit is increasing. We're going to a single collection point, and in order to have a single collection point, we're going to have to individualize all payments for the company. In other words, in order to be able to settle it, it will not be enough as today, when a company sends, for example, social insurance or tax on dependent activity as a sum, and it will have to be written: Novák Jan so tolik, Novák Petr so tolik, Novák Karel so tolik and so much. Those labor agreements are also reported for Ukrainian refugees at the moment, so it is not a new element. Let's talk about bureaucracy. I can imagine we're gonna fix this. My opinion is that a month's notice would be enough that we wouldn't have to log them in and out. The problem is that the volume of DPP is huge, several tens of billions, and the vast majority is exempt from payment of social and health insurance. And there are a lot of cases where these people have 50-60 grand a month's income and they don't pay any insurance. This, of course, does not concern what you described. There's 10,000 today, and that limit is going to be approximately, it's going to be tied to the average wage, about 12 twelve at this time, so there's going to be a slight increase. Question number one at the moment I am unable to answer whether the property tax will be reflected in the lease agreements. I don't have enough information to answer that question, but either I'll consult my colleagues or I'll deliver the answer over the next few days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u214	Thank you. A colleague no longer wants to respond to the facts, so we can go to the next one, and this is Mrs Monika Oborná.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u215	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. We're getting close to the finals. I will take this very quickly and I would begin, already, you might say, with the legendary sentence of Prime Minister Fiala today: we will not raise any taxes. Period. On this sentence, Prime Minister Fiala lured his constituents, and how did it turn out? It turned out that we have on the table a government proposal for the highest tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic, by 73 billion crowns a year. We all see that the Czech economy is not blooming. The economy of our country shows no signs of growth. Household income and consumption are falling. The economy is thus still very limping, and instead of the stimulus package, the government presents a package that we might call stagnating, because it will negatively affect both business and consumer sentiments and behaviour in the coming years. I would expect the government to try to increase confidence in the economy. Instead, you serve only cuts, you increase taxes, prices and taxes. You promise to cut tens of billions of subsidies, which the state either doesn't have at all, or their recipients are entitled to them by law. As an example, subsidies for supported sources of electricity can be given. In the consolidation package, the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, which will enable the State to reduce aid, is no longer said to be a retrospective step that would be immediately challenged in court or international arbitration, as there would be a breach of the principle of protection of the rights already acquired and breach of the State's obligations. Even worse than in the case of subsidies for supported sources of electricity it is with subsidies in other departments and the result is chaos at ministries and the dismay of all subsidy recipients who now have absolutely no idea what they can count on. You're saying that you're proposing a clear, understandable and simple system on which people earn money because, quote: overall they're going to collect less VAT, people are going to pay less. Well, maybe that's true, but maybe just the first half. While the increase in VAT by two or six percent is usually reflected in the price immediately, this is far from certain in the case of tariff reductions. Food workers are about to lose their subsidies, so they're gonna want to compensate for the blackout. Farmers. Moreover, they will pay higher taxes on real estate, or agricultural land, whether they own it or have it pampered. They will also have to reflect the increased labour costs of the labour agreements that the package also introduces into food prices. Thus, even if traders wanted to project a 2% reduction in VAT on food prices, the price increase of their suppliers would be against this. The consequences of your own actions then I assume that you will again seduce farmers, food farmers, chains. Finally, I would like to say that gradual consolidation of public finances is undoubtedly important, but it is particularly necessary to approach it at a time of economic growth. However, the Czech economy is now in stagnation, perhaps directly in recession and five-calice repeats the textbook economic errors we know from the ODS and finance minister Miroslav Kalousek. [[23.40 hours]] The results are the same - failures of companies, poverty of pensioners and other low-income groups and households. The Czech Republic was one of the most affected countries of the then economic crisis, and today it will certainly be no different if you follow the same path. I will in no way support this method of consolidation of public finances, and if you push this stagnation consolidation package through opposition opposition, it will be you who will have to answer to the public for all the negative economic and social consequences that your poor policy will cause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u216	Thank you and please another from the duly applied for - Mr Tomáš Helebrant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, we are discussing the tax package and it will probably not be a surprise that I am not a supporter of a substantial part of its parameters. The government wants more money in the budget, but this cannot stand at a time when the government has brought huge amounts of unplanned revenue in itself. There has been a lot of talk about how the elderly are suffering from government inactivity, but the government's actions are also negatively affecting young people, who are now going to tax even more. But investment in young people should be an investment in our country's future. The five-calice right in the first year of its government reduced the discount on student fare and now comes the next morning - canceling the discount on student, i.e. discounts, which should at least partially make students feel better. We have thousands of students who have to rely only on themselves during their studies and for various reasons cannot be financially helped by parents or grandparents. But the fact that they have to work harder to finance their studies does not make them a feeder. Summer months are an ideal opportunity for students to earn extra money. In practice, they most often choose employment on the basis of an agreement to carry out work or an agreement on work activities. From next year, however, they must expect that the conditions for taxation of the brigades will deteriorate. How it can be done by a government headed by a former public school rector is really strange. The tax that falls on all of us is an increase in real estate tax. This idea is one of the most tragic of all because it was the Minister of Finance Stanjura who led the election campaign with a motto: we will not allow an increase in real estate tax. But we will keep reminding you of these statements, because they are an accurate example of your arrogant scam on voters. Unfortunately, everyone can see that with your promises and especially your ability to govern. Moreover, the increase in real estate tax continues to lead to confusion about how it will eventually be with her, who will be able to do so, or what share. You know, most of your package's just crazy. The Czech economy is in recession and five koalice repeats textbook errors, economic errors, tax increases, reduces consumption and investment. This is not how we are going to buy ourselves out of the crisis. What you want to enforce here is the biggest tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic, i.e. in complete contradiction with your programming statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u218	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and now Mrs. Taťána Malá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Members, I would very much like to express myself in my brief opinion on the tax package under consideration, particularly from the point of view of its impact on students and young people. Yesterday, we were discussing how this government is treating pensioners, but it is also necessary to say that the five-calice is also planning extraordinary student taxation, and it is clear that no group of residents here can be sure of the government anymore. Unfortunately, your attitude toward support for students and young people shows that you simply do not think about young people. From what you are putting forward, it is clear that the government has founded its declared fiscal consolidation and has only promoted and disrupted the benefits of those citizens that it has chosen, whether they are young or old. In the first year of your government, you reduced your tax discount - he already said so - the fare discount for students. A colleague of mine Helebrant said that. The original fare discount was 75 percent, and your government decided to cut it by 25 percentage points to 50 percent of the full price. This cut is strong and basically only for students' budgets or their families. Another absolutely crucial thing is the cancellation of the student discount, i.e. discounts, which should at least partially relieve students. A student constantly preparing for a future profession can deduct CZK 4 020 a year, i.e. CZK 335 a month. According to the Ministry of Finance, only students who earn more than CZK 205,600 a year benefit from this discount, which corresponds to an average monthly earnings of CZK 17,100. But, Minister, over 17,000 a month, it's not just those who are supposed to abuse the higher education system... [[Note min. Stanjury.]] Yes, you did, Minister! In this country, there are thousands of students who, unfortunately, have to rely only on themselves for a period of study, for various reasons, cannot be helped by parents or grandparents, and that they have to work more to fund their studies at all, does not make them a perpetrator or abusers of the system. [[Again note min. Stanjury.]] Sure, Minister, but you could've said that at the press conference instead of sitting at Shakespeare festivities, so please don't yell at me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u220	I would like to ask, let us say, once the honourable Member may have finished.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u221	Thank you. Can I go now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u222	Please continue, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u224	Please, we both have colleagues. We've got 10 minutes or 14 minutes, let's just hang in there. Madame, continue and I would like to ask the Minister if he has any comment, then factually or with priority, if necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u225	I'll wait for the minister to testify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u226	And please, madam, let's finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u227	We do not understand how the government can say, which has a former university rector at its head, how it can have such an approach, because, in my opinion, if the Minister of Education or the Minister of Finance has information that the system is being abused, we are supposed to solve the real problem of abuse and not disturb the benefits of the honest-working students that our country needs, because CZK 17,100 a month is certainly not enough income to cover students' costs for food, rent, rail, teaching aids, energy or transport. In addition, universities are usually in larger cities where life is more financially demanding. Today, the government is fighting against college students, making their lives on the rails more expensive, canceling their tax discounts, and if this continues, it will manifest itself in the reduced interest of our young people to study. At the same time, the proportion of university-educated people in our population of 25-34 is one of the lowest in the European Union. Summer months are an ideal opportunity for students to earn extra money, and in practice they usually choose jobs on the basis of an agreement to carry out work or an agreement on work activities. However, from next year onwards, it must also assume that the conditions for taxation of brigades will deteriorate, in particular low taxation for gross remuneration to the limit is the main reason for the attractiveness of labour agreements. But the five-police government decided to tighten the terms of the labor agreements and this step, like the cancellation of the student discount, can have a negative impact on the financial situation of many young people. In the case of labour agreements, income will be retained without insurance from one employer, but the earnings will be viewed as one whole by the DPP, regardless of the fact that it comes from more employers' agreements. Another blow to the young people's wallets who started a family is actually losing their kindergarten fees. There's been a debate about that here, too. We don't see the government motivating young people to study. The state receives a number of positive side effects from the educated population, but also the fact that the government has decided to abolish the support for building savings confirms the approach that the government has chosen towards young people. [[23.50 hours]] I'll make it short. Let me just say this: according to the latest figures, a number of students in the Czech Republic have also been facing an increase in mental problems in recent years. Sports activities are one way of dealing with this according to experts, too, and how to cope with the stress of study. Unfortunately, even in this case, the government has decided to make it clear that not only young people do not appreciate too much mental or physical health, because it has decided to increase their VAT to sport by two percentage points. I think that the above really shows that not only senior citizens but also young people are a group of people that unfortunately this government has taken to a pub, and it has to be said that they are not afraid of this unfortunately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u228	Thank you, and with priority rights, the Minister has applied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u229	I think if someone's lying about me, I have the right to defend myself. I didn't say anything like that. I didn't accuse anyone of any abuse. I would press a tear, Madame through the Vice-President. How much is the gross wage that you can pay a student discount on today? How much per year is that? Can you tell us? 26 800, 2233 crowns a month gross. Everything above that is taxed at 15 percent today. So why didn't you suggest it when you think it's right in eight years when you ran the Treasury? You have not made a single proposal in this area. We're just canceling a non-systemic exception that concerns revenue between 206 and 232,000. Until 206,000 a year it remains the same, over 232,000 a year it remains the same, the only nonsystemic exception, explain to me why the 26,800 gross is in the middle of that interval. I don't see any logical considerations. I think the basic discount is just right. And I would understand, I wouldn't support it if someone said no limit. That's understandable, it has some logic, but you haven't suggested that in eight years. First of all. Secondly, VAT on sports does not increase. Those are sports tickets. Well, we're not gonna argue if it's sports. If Jakub Janda is, when I was rooting for him and he was jumping, it wasn't VAT. The VAT was on the ticket. I didn't do sports. I was watching and cheering. The athletes were playing sports. I mean, that's not true, and I think we need to figure out what we're talking about, what kind of VAT we're talking about. You were probably speaking by mistake that DPP's taxes were increasing. Well, they don't increase. They stay the same. We're talking about social security. And the problem, I described it. Does it seem normal to you that someone has 50 grand's income and doesn't pay social security? How is it fair to those who have lower income, not 50,000 a month or 40,000 a month, and that's what social security pays? So I think the system should be fair enough. We increase the amount for one employer from 10 to 12, we do not limit the number if there is a larger number of DPPs with a total lower amount, so no social insurance will be paid. There are also cases where people use it for a long time, and they get caught up. And that's not good for society either, because in the end they have low pensions and they go to social benefits by not paying social security. That's the problem. It's not aimed at students at all. I think that's a misinterpretation, but whoever wants to see something that's not really there. And I'm sure the Prime Minister would defend himself. I think it should also be evaluated by former rectors. It's weird that he's an ex-rector. The Prime Minister was a very successful rector. I think you should know that he was a very successful Rector of Masaryk University, and he certainly applies all his professional experience in his political career.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u230	Thank you, and I have a point of fact here, Mrs Malá. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u231	Thank you. I'll just, Minister, remind you of that statement you made. If a student earns more than 206,000 per year in the brigades, each of us can answer whether a person who earns this annual amount actually studies or is just enrolled in the study to benefit from various benefits. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u232	Thank you. It's factual here, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u233	Well, each and every one of us, you made the conclusion, you personally, that each and every one of them is taking advantage of it, that's all. So I didn't accuse anyone, I am that each of us can take a picture, depending on each of us what picture he takes. But you avoided the answer to why there's only 26,000 gross. We propose to abolish a non-systemic tax exemption that concerns the student's income between 206 and 232 thousand gross per month, if anyone makes money, as they say, needs more, 233 thousand and more per year, so nothing changes for him at all, nothing changes at all. If someone makes up to 206 grand, nothing changes. We of the volume of this discount, and the smaller the volume, the smaller the discount is actually of minor importance in the overall tax system, we know that the set of those who precisely hit between 206 and 232 thousand is extremely low, small, and I think it is not worth having as such a tax exemption. I was saying it would make sense to me if you supported that students are freed without limits, but you never suggested anything like that, so the whole debate about how allegedly under the leadership of the former rector makes life difficult for students is only about a narrow group of students who have annual gross income between 206 and 232 thousand. How many are there? I guess when you fight like that, you probably know how many there are, and those who take 233 thousand or 235 thousand or 240 or 250, you don't fight for them anymore, you don't care that they don't change anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u234	Thank you. Real comment by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad the Minister is responding at this time too, and maybe I could follow up on asking him to respond to that point two I was saying. That's about the command blocks you're actually allowing to digitize only for the police and Customs. Are you really not going to make an amendment that would make this possible for more government bodies? I'd like an answer if you could, Minister. Or whether I should prepare this amendment myself. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u236	Thank you. Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u237	In fact, I don't know, the initiative came from the Treasury when we were looking for savings, some meaningful digitization. I'm sure I'm not defending myself, but we need to think about the organs that would be involved, whether they would have been prepared for this since 1 January. Of course, if I put it as an option, we don't put anybody at risk. I don't rule it out at all. So let's talk about it, there's no evil intention, there's no intention of excluding any of it. We came up with it from Customs, then the Homeland and the police joined it. No one else, except for your performance tonight, has suggested we expand. I'm sure I can get my colleagues to take a look at it. I don't see it as a problem. And then it almost doesn't matter who's gonna file it. If we agree that it makes sense and that it's a good thing, then we don't have to overreact. If a legislative text needs to be prepared, I offer either our legislation or our internal legislation so that there is no legislative error.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u238	Thank you. We've got the last two minutes. Mr Kamal is still duly registered. Farhan. [[Laughter.]] You see, I'm trying to extend it so you don't have to start, we have the last minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u239	I'll start, of course, but I think I'll get back to it tomorrow. I've prepared a speech that I've changed during this day, and I've changed it because Minister Stanjura here said one sentence that interests me, and that sentence was, we're going back to the data. So my output is going to be about data. It relates to data relating to medicines relating to VAT and the confusion which are actually related to these medicines. I would begin by saying that the Minister of Health said that he would save CZK 3.2 billion in VAT changes. He said that repeatedly in his performances. He wasn't the only one who said it. This is it, it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-12-ps2021-071-02-001-002.u240	Yes. Well, I'd cut you off. [[Let's hear it.]] I would like to thank everyone for the correct course and interrupt this 71st meeting by 9 pm tomorrow. Have a good night, everyone.
