ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Third reading We launched the debate on this point on 22 February, and the debate was interrupted. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are in the Houses of the Press 263/3, which was delivered on 17 January 2023, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, this was delivered as the House Press 263/4. Thank you for taking the position of Minister of Culture Martin Baxa at the rapporteur's table, and I would also like to ask the rapporteur when Mr Ondřej Babka will represent the previously designated rapporteur, Mr Martin Kolovratník. We will therefore continue with the interrupted debate, which includes a number of Members, but before that I have four factual points. However, since these are the remarks from February, I am asking for the order of Mr Jakob if he wants to use his de facto? He does, so please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said here, we are continuing this meeting, we have already addressed this point at five o'clock's third reading. I would like to point out in fact that the third reading is primarily intended for loading technical modifications. I think that, as our discussion has shown, we have made it clear why the law is important. that's how the arguments from the opposition were made. So I appeal that we really do what is supposed to be done in the third reading. There's been a lot of concern. I want to confirm that, if it comes to voting today at the third reading, I will again publicly guarantee that I will refute one of the concerns of the opposition, so if this vote occurs today, I will be the first to propose on Friday that we discuss the two annual reports in order to refute the fact that perhaps we would like to call off the entire Czech Television Council. I repeat this once again, and I firmly believe that the third reading discussion will have a ratio corresponding to this stage of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u3	Thank you and I will remind you once again that since this hearing was suspended on 22 February, we are now following up on the suspended debate. Likewise, they have the right to respond by their actual Members who were signed up for the suspended debate at the time. Another one, with fact, was signed in by Mr Pavel Svoboda, whom I do not see now in the hall. If he's not present, he's failing. Then, Mr Tom Philipp, I think he's excused, and I don't see him either. And Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. You're downloading? And then Mrs Berenika Peštová was signed in. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to respond to Mr Jakob. Mr Member, can you explain to me, through Madam President, who have you responded to? The fact is, you're supposed to respond to the previous speaker who spoke in front of you. You took advantage of a factual remark to give us your position here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u5	Thank you for keeping time. Let me just remind you that we are going back and responding to the suspended debate from February. Mr Aleš Juchelka is another Member who wants to respond to the facts. [[Mr. Juchelk tripped on a step.]] Are you okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u6	Yes, I am, thank you. [[He's laughing.]] Normally, I just tripped once. I will only respond to Mr Jakob, because those two reports on Czech television could have been approved a long time ago weeks ago when we approved one by one here. We know why it's done. I think that the offer is simply wrong, because if we were to approve the two reports and not be as a guarantee that the Czech Television Council will appeal, then it should simply be given before we discuss the third reading of this law. This is simply not an offer or insurance of that, or any promise that when this law is finished here in the third reading, this amendment, that then the two reports of Czech Television will be approved. Because simply when this amendment is adopted at the third reading, you will no longer need the two reports and normally you can just approve them because you have precisely what we keep pointing out, and that is that, in fact, during the election of the CEO, the conditions will change, the kvora will change, the composition will change and the number of councillors will change. That it's just happening in the middle of a run, in the middle of a race, that you're pushing it through the third extraordinary reading for the reason that we're talking about over and over again, and that's that you want to control the public service media. That's all you're doing. Everyone here knows it, everyone accepts it except the government coalition, which, of course, says something completely different, because even though they believe that it is, they have to do the opposite, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u7	Thank you for keeping time. Yes, he goes on to report with the de facto President Jakob. I'll add an apology, Minister Ivan Bartoš from 15 o'clock for work reasons. And please, your two minutes in response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u8	Thank you. I have to respond. I think I remember the debate for 14 days, reacting or responding to my previous speakers. The discussion, in particular, about the annual reports, was passionate. I suspect one of the last ones was a colleague of Juchelka. And we had a long set, a set of actual ones. So I actually reacted to the previous speakers 14 days ago. And at the same time, I'm taking the liberty of responding to my colleague Juchelka. We're starting to spin around here. I'm afraid we're gonna be doing this for another five hours, that the arguments have been made clear here, and the existing law is still in force until this amendment is passed through the entire legislative process. And I'm glad that the possibility of calling off the entire board after not approving the two annual reports falls out of the law. It is, and we've already said that here, one of those major insurance policies. However, if we discuss this here and approve it at third reading, which I would very much like to see today, there will still be that possibility until the legislative process is completed. And again, I guarantee that we are prepared to approve those annual reports so as to disprove this concern. I hope that the third reading vote, as it is in the Rules of Procedure, will come to that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u9	Thank you for keeping time. This performance called for three applications for facts. Mr Patrik Nacher is the first to report, Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared again afterwards. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Good morning. I'd like to respond to my colleague Honza Jakob, who said we were spinning in circles. Well, I have the recipe not to spin in circles, and that is, you pull it off, this proposal, or interrupt it, I'm not suggesting interruption for certain reasons. But that seems fair to me. Because we have not yet received the answer to the most basic question: Why are you in such a hurry? Why can't this thing pay for three months, six months and so on? And it's actually what we experienced last week, it's retroactivity. Because it's going somewhere that the approval of the amendment will change the conditions of the board, which will change the potential vote for the election of the director of Czech Television. So we had some retroactivity here last week. After all, you heard it from your own senators, I hear. Now there's retroactivity again. So maybe taught from the development - I would recommend, let's really stop spinning in circles, download it, put it two, three months later. This will distract all doubts that this has to do with the current choice of director of television, we are all satisfied and we can spend the whole morning on some content more nutritious topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u11	I also thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mr Okleštěk will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u12	Thank you very much. I just wanted to tell Mr Jakoba, through you, that we are not spinning in circles. For example, I have many other challenging questions in my speech for Minister Baxa. I hope we can get to that today, because I think I'm third from the back. I think that these other questions of mine will then bring light into simply rejecting this law here at third reading. Because it is simply influential, powerful, because it is not the one that would be transparently the law at the moment that would guarantee the transparent choice of the CEO. Let's keep it as it is, let's not change the rules in the middle of a run. This has already happened to us last week, when we had to spend several days and several nights here precisely because of retroactivity, because of the way the government coalition rapes certain legal standards, how it uses a state of legislative emergency. And here this is one of those laws that have more to say for a government coalition to usurp power and influence just in relation to the public media. Unfortunately, that's how it is, we're going to repeat it over and over again. And it's only because it's before the choice. If it was after her, then, of course, let's make a deal. But we have a whole series of amendments here that I think can distract and correct this situation here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u13	Thank you again for keeping time. And so far, with the last de facto Mr Ladislav Okleštěk. Please respond to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u14	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I am certainly not a well-founded expert on the Czech Television Council, but during the time we are discussing this issue, there have been a lot of stimulating proposals. And when I listened responsibly to my colleague Jakob, it turns out there's no so-called culinary, that it's just set up in some kind of process. And since Jakob has expressed himself here several times as a very helpful person with the fact that we will definitely approve of the management and the like, so - unfortunately I have only now - I would like to mention that it is okay for us not to intervene in the process that is in progress, and immediately after the election of the director of Czech Television, they have set the rules as you all imagine now. I'll adapt, we can talk about it. If you're helpful, stay helpful, let's do it right after the vote. You'll prove it wasn't supposed to be a cliché, there's no action from the background, and everything will be as it should be. And yet, when I have the opportunity, from this place, I would like to wish all the women in the Chamber of Deputies here in the hall, but also the House workers happy to celebrate women.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u15	Thank you. We are now coming to Mrs Margita Balaštíková's application and Mr Hrnčíř will then be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u16	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. The amendment to the Czech Television Act is to extend the Czech Television Council to three other members elected in the Senate. What exactly is being followed by this is likely to be suspected. What is very important, however, from the point of view of the budget, is that the Council of Czech Television is going to cost itself, but that does not change what the public is really interested in. We all have the performance of our Czech television in the presidential campaign in our vivid memory. Compared to commercial stations, it was the worst and least objective. And that's probably sad because they should be the most objective. Media experts agree on this regardless of political orientation, and foreign media agencies agree on this. That's what I've been talking about in my previous performances. Thus, even those who did not wish for a candidate today acknowledge that the news coverage of Czech Television has brought tender, clearly against some candidate important contributions. The highlight was the discussion of candidates in the second round, which was dramaturgically weak and its leadership compared to commercial stations very tender. Of course, these views are not addressed on Czech TV, and they are all in the past. I have been through various discussions about Czech television here on Parliament's floor, and I am impressed by one statement, it was Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's statement, which I have to agree with. He said: To whom does Czech television belong? It belongs to those who work in it. I think it's a deep truth that she doesn't belong to us, even though we're paying her off our money. It's a deep truth when I talk about tenderness on the air. And they certainly do not link it to the fact that Czech Television is following a government coalition on the basis of some political agreement or will by politicians. I am... and I want to hope that it's an own initiative of people who work on TV and who pursue their own interests there. Recently, the names of some editors known from the screen, which the public complains most about, have been published. I'm not going to name these people, it's not relevant at all, but I see their work as a viewer, and I have reservations about all of them. Their performance clearly shows who they like and who they want to damage. There are documented examples of twisting, guidanceal and misleading questions. And these people still work there, they still have the right to interpret their assessments publicly, reprimand and urge. And no one checks them. Looks like these people aren't driven, their work isn't rated, and there's absolutely nothing coming from mistakes. The relevant director is virtually invisible, he is supposed to have some childish hobbies he pursues, and he hires agencies that count seconds to evaluate objectivity. But that's completely nonsense. I don't have to say anything in a minute, and then I can just say everything by pulling out my eyebrows or tone of voice. I remember political news in totalitarian times. I've been there. At that time, there was a correspondent in Bonn, the capital of Germany at the time, and in a report from the first May celebrations, he said: This year in Bonn, the celebrations of the labor festival went without bloody conflicts with the police. I thought it was funny at the time as a demonstration of totalitarian ideological manipulation. There were some people on the screen with a flag. And here we go. They don't lie, they just make an impression because they feel they have a right and that their opinion is the only and only right and possible. Other opinions are undemocratic, populist, and I don't know what they are. What power struggles are taking place in this public institution now reveals an affair surrounding alleged harassment and sexual harassment. And now we see someone supporting the other, and the other, and how it's all clouded in front of the public. Journalists who weren't lyin' to Switzerland and somewhere in an apartment building in the hallway filming in private political opponents are telling us today that complaints are being discussed behind closed doors and that testimony is classified? Are they making fun of us? And the Czech Television Council is just watching it all. People from Czech Television say to public space that they fear their colleagues and superiors? Well, we've really worked it out. I believe and I will believe that until the details are released and nothing else comes out of it. And so I have to join my colleague, Mr Juchelek, who filed a motion to reject this law so that we can deal with it in more detail and really process it so that the Czech Television Council is also checking other things, and not how many times the director has taken a taxi with what he is dealing with, but to make this our Czech Television a tender one. [[It wasn't?]] Why do I agree with the rejection at the same time? Because I have a proposal here as a member of the budget committee. How about we cancel the TV fees and transfer the Czech Television funding to the state budget? Czech Television will select around 6 billion per year on fees. However, we do not have to set a fixed amount for ČT financing. For example, we can determine one-tenth of GDP in the last year. That amount would be variable, higher and lower in economic growth times. So it would certainly not be up to anyone to force or prosecute someone over television funding. It wouldn't matter to us politicians anymore. Independence would certainly be higher. And, of course, TV could control the SAO, which is not possible today, and we know what this leads to. The Czech Television Council deals with funding, recalls the Supervisory Commission, which defends itself. The board appoints a new one, we've got, like, two supervisory committees, 'cause they had a fight, and it's just one disgusting mess again. Funding from the state budget has its logic. And after all, we have a pretty good example here in Slovakia. The model was approved there with effect from last July and nobody doubts the independence of Slovak television because of this. We should just have a TV that we're economically earning. So I'm not going to go into details, but I've got it all figured out, and I've consulted with TV station experts. The choice of television fees is certainly an expensive matter in itself. I see no benefit in the fact that they are collected separately from taxes. It's nothing more than a tax. We're dealing with a problem here, who's supposed to be the payer, how to charge TV on computers and cell phones. There are hotels and any hostel, challenges and emergencies and debt collections, and no one knows why the police, the army, the schools must pay the fee, and why it is paid by pensioners and why it is paid in the same amount as billionaires. All of this would just fall away. Each household would save CZK 180 a month and public media would save collection costs. There would therefore be clear financial savings, better control of funding and perhaps more transparency inside Czech Television. Then we do not need to expand the Czech Television Council and we can agree calmly that we will return to the existing law and choose to the ČT Council suitable personalities absolutely without a party key, and really, as the law assumes, from nominants of social organizations who will be crediblely representing the public and hopefully improve the content of Czech television. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u17	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brázdil is in fact reporting. But I'm gonna read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from 15 o'clock for health reasons, from 14 to 15 o'clock Mr Patrik Nacher for work reasons and from 16 o'clock for family reasons. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u18	Thank you. In fact, I would like to respond to my previous speaker, who criticized what was happening on that TV. I think you've all probably been there. The editor's coming, asking you a question. Why is he coming to you? He probably wants your answer. The question is asked, and it follows that you start to interpret your opinion, but at this point, it doesn't fit in the store. What's gonna happen? You're cut off. In other words, you didn't answer as the editor in question imagined. This is happening repeatedly, and you're actually leaving with the fact that they actually wanted me, but they wouldn't let me talk. I don't know who these editors teach what kind of school they go to or what code they have. When a person looks abroad, he's probably asked, he says something, and the people who listen to it make up their mind. I guess there's no advice but to say, once again, Mr. Editor, you're gonna jump in, so I'm gonna leave. I mean, you wanted me, and I wanted to tell you something, but you made it impossible for me. But we're acting like we're going on and trying to respond patiently, and the editor is making a good day out of us. I don't want a TV like that! Once again, this is not a public television to inform. Objectivity is very difficult, but at least let it talk when they ask him, and when he says it, then maybe broadcast it or not. But this is indecency! All of you who behave like this are being rude! Then don't invite us, and we won't answer. You'll be happy. Well, you won't, because you need us. You need our mouths, but you want your own opinion. Let's not get involved, colleagues, let's not get involved!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Please, let us really respond to the debate in fact. Mr. Foldyna, now with his own deed. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u20	Thank you. Sorry to come back and I didn't respond directly to President Jakob. I was thinking about what he said here. That is, if you would make a public promise to approve the Czech Television news and not withdraw the advice, we could talk about it. But it's a question of how you approach it. That's how I thought about continuing this discussion because it's very serious. You said you'd approve these reports, that you wouldn't call off the board. So if you guys make a public vow, let's talk about this thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u21	Thank you. President Jan Jakob wants to respond with the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u22	Thank you. I will only respond very briefly to my colleague, Foldyna. I don't know how to make this any clearer than when I put this on the microphone and the screen recording here. So it was said and it is given and guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. From Mr. Foldyna post. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u24	Well, I'm sorry I'm going to argue with you a little bit. You know, you guys made a public promise before and during the election that you wouldn't raise taxes, that you would valorize pensions. It's just hard to believe those public promises, or it's hard to believe them at all. Well, I wanted to hear it, and I want you all to take the picture yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will also respond to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u26	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to respond to Mr. Jakob. I would like to ask him, when he came up with this proposal, why didn't he present it yesterday, for example, when we approved the agenda, and why wasn't it listed and approved, for example, yesterday? I haven't noticed anything like this on your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u27	Thank you. Once again, President Jakob is reporting with the response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u28	Thank you. I proposed this draft procedure to the president of the club yesterday. The YES club has not yet been accepted. That's why it didn't even sound grémia, 'cause then you were supposed to do it at the club. The offer stands. If you decide to accept it, we're ready for it. So it's been heard towards you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping time. With priority rights, Mr Aleš Juchelka is reporting with the de facto Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u30	Thank you very much. Up until now, I thought it was more like a God-loving activity, that you really didn't want to hold the two reports on the activities of Czech Television as insurance because if you hadn't passed this law, you would have called off the entire Czech Television Council by not approving the two reports in plenary for the majority of the government coalition. I thought if you didn't want to do it, you wouldn't have the insurance as such. Now, Mr Jakob, by your means, you normally admit that if this amendment does not pass here, you will probably resort to it. That you're just putting some offers here instead of saying OK, so if we want to approve it as a government coalition and we have a majority of 108 votes to do it, we're just gonna do it. We're not going to lay down any more terms or business. We just do it because we have the power of a government coalition to do it, and that means we don't want to have what you've been saying all along, and that's control of the public media. Because it didn't turn out that way, the suspicion is getting deeper and deeper, especially with me. I have, then, really, other questions, which I may even ask during factual remarks, or then in my speech, when I will defend my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with the de facto President. Mrs Nina Nováková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, Mr President Jakob, through Madam Vice-President, I am not in the habit of publishing communication, which has been made more or less four-eyed. You started it, then I have to publish it whole. Yes, you gave me an offer to discuss and vote on the news if we today allow it to go through the third reading of the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. I turned it down. That's all. I'm not gonna break up my colleagues here to take what they have to say and what they want to say. Regardless - here I will follow up on my honored colleague Aleš Juchelka - yes, our suspicion that you want to politicize a public institution has greatly and greatly strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u33	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mrs Nina Nováková wants to respond, then Mr Milan Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, by your means, especially to the speech of Mr Juchelka's fellow Member. What Mr Jakob is talking about here is to make sure that it is not our intention to do what you say it is to politicize in any way public media, so there was an offer to discuss the reports that you believe we will make an effort to remove the entire board from the discussion of these reports. But that's not true at all. All that happened was that in the media committee, and not yet clearly, those reports were not recommended for approval. But that is not a directive at all for the Chamber of Deputies, which has never been said at all. It's completely wrong to put this against you. It was only that Mr Jakob simply said that, in order to make sure that the Chamber of Deputies did not decide that all the councilmen had been removed, it would be certain that this political pressure that you are constantly talking about should be implemented in some way. For example, I was one of those who wanted a new law on public media in the previous term, and I am, for example, the person who constantly asks when discussing the reports of the Czech Television Council on how they deal with complaints. I also don't think it's all completely okay. It was never said that the media committee would put pressure on the Chamber of Deputies to call off the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u35	Thank you. I'm really gonna ask you to keep time. And now, Mr Milan Brázdil, Mrs Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u36	In fact, I would like to respond again to my colleague Balaštíková in the criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, did you notice last time, even today, that there is no television, better said, the Czech one? Did you notice that the last time we talked about what we were talking about, it wasn't nearly on TV, the Czech one, not a thing? That's how we act, actually they, they should probably objectively inform, they don't do it. They don't want to hear the feedback, they live there, they do what they want. And I just wanted to point out, so this is, that's the objectivity, that's how the public media behaves the moment we discuss it itself. That's wrong! This is definitely not how Czech TV should behave and I hope it will not be in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u37	Thank you. That was Mr Brázdil, and now Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will prepare herself. We're still in business. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u38	I would like to respond to both my previous speakers, both Mr Jakob, through Madam President and Mrs Nováková, through Madam President. Well, this meeting, or about Czech Television and Czech Radio, is already the third emergency meeting, if I'm not mistaken, I think I'm right. So if that's what you wanted and you don't want to blackmail us in quotes like you said, because it's not blackmail, then why didn't you put those two messages in this extraordinary meeting and assign them to this point? Why are you giving it an ex-post? So if you wanted to calm the opposition, you could have put those two messages and put them in order, they would have been approved, and then you could have gone to that point. And it would also be an extraordinary meeting. Why are the messages always off? Because that's the blackmail right there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and Mr Juchelka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u40	I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mrs Nováková, through you, Madam President. My colleague, if that were the case, we will postpone it and you will accept my suggestion that we will finance it from the state budget, we will bind it to GDP, so that no one on Czech television has any reason to influence the policies, because, according to the way this country goes, the bobsleighs will be financed. The Minister could do an analysis of how much money is saved by not collecting fees. We can somehow compose it, we can talk about it openly, we'll do what you say we do, we make a transparent deal, and it'll be quiet. But it's not like that! And just for you, I beg you, the answers to the complaints - I would really smile at that. And look, there's some surveillance on the list that people believe, what people think. Less people trust that Czech TV than this government nowadays. That's kind of sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u41	Thank you. And now, MP Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u42	Thank you, too. I will speak to my honored colleague, through you, Nina Nováková. First of all, if it were to be this way, I would beg you to turn this amendment around with those reports on the activities of Czech Television. First, let's approve them, and then let's go back to this law so that it's not of course that suspicious. That's pretty obvious. The new Czech Television Act, the big amendment to the Czech Television Act, where this small amendment can of course be included here, so it will definitely be in this parliamentary term, that is the public promise of Minister Baxa and it is already written in the Ministry. And we are also invited to do so, even though we did not have a single meeting, but Minister Baxa said that we would be invited to do so and that it was about politicizing. Unfortunately, the only person here who politicized the Czech Television Council was the government coalition. I'm afraid so. It was a few months ago that you politicized the Czech Television Council by voting for the new Councillor of Czech Television. That you simply failed to make a secret choice twice, and that is why you decided to vote publicly on the staff of the Czech Television Council, and that is unfortunately why you have already politicized the Czech Television Council, because the entire opposition has left and it was clear how it will turn out and that it is your candidates who have been elected for the third time, unfortunately, by which you have already politicized the Czech Television Council. So if you have those godly intentions, I would turn it around and propose a procedural vote. We would interrupt this amendment to the Czech Television Act and to the Czech Radio until two reports on the activities of Czech Television were approved. Please, Madam President, let us vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u43	Thank you. So I'm just taking note of your proposal... Until both reports are approved. Did it sound like that? And Mr Lacina counterproposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this issue of press 263 and make a counter-proposal to interrupt this hearing within 10 hours precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u45	Thank you. So counterproposal to 10 o'clock today. Isn't that right? And Mr Letocha wants a counter-proposal too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u46	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to make a counter-proposal for this proposal to interrupt this point, entitled the amendment to the Czech Television Act and to the Czech Radio Act, the House press 263, according to the Rules of Procedure Act. My counterproposal is to interrupt this meeting until today on 8 March 9 am 53 minutes. Thank you and please leave my procedural or counterproposal to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u47	It's very clear, thank you. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. Is there still an interest in counterproposal or opt-out? Now I don't understand those raised hands. It's a spare card. And Mr. Lochman here is still counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u48	Good morning, dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government, esteemed colleagues. I appreciate Mr Juchelka's proposal, but I would suggest a different counter-proposal, and that is to interrupt to 9.56.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u49	So this discussion of this point to 9.56.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u50	So we're discussing this point by 9.56.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u51	I have three counter-proposals, one initial proposal, and with a replacement card number 37, Mr. Michal Kučera will vote. [[Lochman: Is that understood?]] Yes, I'll check everyone out. Please log in with your registration cards again. And thus in the order of counterproposals, as presented. First of all, Mr Lacina's counter-proposal. Initiating vote. Anyone who wants to interrupt until 10 o'clock today, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? In vote number nine, 143 votes cast, for four, against eighty-five. The motion was denied. The second counter-proposal, Mr Letocha, will be interrupted today by 9.53 minutes. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 10, 148 votes were cast, for 4, against 81. The motion was denied. [[9.50 hours]] The third, against Mr Lochman's proposal, interrupt until 9.56. I've started the vote. Whoever is in favour of this counterproposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In voting number 11, 149 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 4, against 86. Motion denied. And now to Mr Aleš Juchelka's initial proposal to interrupt this point until both reports are approved. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? In vote number 12, 151 votes cast, 69 votes cast, 69 votes cast. The motion was denied. Please, to the vote, Madame? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u52	Madam Vice-President, I would just like to point out that I will not object to the President's procedure, but Mr Letocha has suggested that the meeting be adjourned, okay? Not interrupting a point. So I think you should register as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u53	I confess, I don't remember. I think it was a break in the point. [[Dissenting views of opposition Members.]] Because that is the only thing that can now be proposed by those who are not members of the parliamentary clubs. I will now ask if no one wants to vote anymore, so we can continue the debate that has been interrupted by these proposals. Mr. Jan Hrnčíř will perform. Mr Juchelka wants to respond to the facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u54	Thank you very much. And now, with this vote, it has just turned out what the godly intentions of this coalition are. That she simply does not want to approve the reports on the activities of Czech Television, because she holds the advice as a hostage so that then - and also thanks to this law - the number of councillors could be increased, so that the government coalition would have the majority she is counting on there, and thus to prepare its candidate for the position of CEO. And by the way Mr.Jakob here promises us on this microphone all the time that it has nothing to do with the news about the activities of Czech Television, that if two reports are not approved, the Council of Czech Television will not, of course, be called off by this vote, then it is simply and simply that the promises have fallen. So once again, I'm saying that this mistrust is getting deeper and deeper in what you're saying here, that you have the godly intentions of this law. You don't. And by each vote, by each of your speeches, by what you do, by politicizing the Czech Television Council from the start of your mandate, they are proof.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Babka also wants to respond to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u56	Hello, Madam Vice-President. I'd just like to ask you a question about the procedural aspect that has just happened here. Because my colleague Juchelka made a procedural proposal that interrupted this point and made it subject to two other points. And I wonder if it is possible to put counterproposals on this proposal, which are time. That means breaking a point to some time. I don't think it's counterproposal, and I think it would be good to get this straight in the future. If the draft interruption clause is conditional on the approval of any other points, in this case two points in the annual management and activity reports, then I do not think that the counterproposal can be an interruption of the point until 9.56. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u57	Thank you for asking. We can ask the legislation for an opinion, I think that's the best course of action. I'll take care of it. Materially, it was a suspension of the point condition or for a while. I will. And now we are going back to the debate, namely Mr Jan Hrnčíř, who has been duly logged in for a very long time, is on the line. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me today to comment on the proposed amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. A long time ago, I said it was time for Czech television to change from scratch. Whether its financing, its management method, and especially its reporting process, everything needs to be properly treated, as the current situation remains unsustainable. Television, which tends to give the viewer the only right opinion, while others are behind, calls it bad, or doesn't fit into the program at all, has neither the right nor the right to call itself a medium of public service. It doesn't remind me of the time not so long ago when everything that didn't fit in the propaganda at the time was called provocation, action by Western agents, or wreckers of the Republic. Unfortunately, I have to say that lately I have again followed the inclination to this rhetoric. If the opposite opinion is suppressed and its wearer is dehonested, identified as a foreign agent or a disinformer, it is necessary to admit that we are again on our way to totalitarian, only permissible truth. The debate is not allowed, the exchange and diversity of views is no longer seen as a necessary instrument of democracy, but very often as an inappropriate and undesirable matter. It is not acceptable for one opinion to be promoted on public television at the expense of another and for society to be divided into the right one, that is, the one that the television thinks is the right one, and then the one who takes the opposite opinion, which, of course, often does not sound on this television and whose carriers are dehonested and labeled. This is what happens on Czech TV. My words also confirm the recent case of the violation of the Czech Television Code in the 168 hours of Nora Fridrich. A report entitled For all those who advocated the same sex marriage broke three articles of the Czech Television Code. Dramaturgyna and at the same time host Nora Fridrichová published only contributions promoting marriage for all, the post opposite, speaking for traditional marriage, i.e. the union of men and women, in this report unfortunately did not get space. The order continues to be blamed for the lack of designation of one of the reporters, who was not mentioned to be an active lobbyist for marriage for all, as well as the instructional way of questioning legislators. Personally, however, I was most shocked by the pejorative designation of advocates of traditional marriage as ultraconservatives. Nora Fridrichová defended the form of a report by long-term knowledge of the view of marriage advocates as a bond between men and women, and it is therefore not necessary to repeat it, which the Czech Television Council rejected, as the passing of the opposition opinion is a violation of the Czech Television Code. It also recognised Mrs Fridrichová's further misconduct, which was brought to the attention of the Alliance for Family and the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council. Of course, it is a good thing that the Czech Television Council refused to legalize such an unbalanced and misleading report, when only one opinion was given, while the second opinion was neglected. However, the warning sign is that despite a clear violation of several articles of the Czech Television Code, the board decided only by a narrow majority of eight members of the fifteen. How is it possible that some members of the Czech Television Council are okay with breaking the code? Are they satisfied with the tutorial reports? Are they okay with neglecting their point of view? What is behind the fact that, despite the clear view of the Radio and Television Council, they are not interested in redress? And what would happen if all members of the Czech Television Council thought so? Would we resign completely? This is why we repeatedly and consistently warn against the politicisation of the Czech Television Council. It is necessary and important for the opinions of the broadest possible class of society to be represented. It is essential for such a policy to continue to exist against some reporters and dramaturgists. The current method of election of members of the Czech Television Council guarantees this diversity to a large extent. It guarantees that the Council will continue to act as a rescue brake on at least fundamental democratic principles. Unfortunately, the proposed amendment removes this policy and I warn against it again and more strongly. I cannot, of course, support her, and I strongly urge you, my dear colleagues, to do the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And so far, an actual Member, Mrs Ožanová, has volunteered. Please, two minutes for your actual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u60	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on Mr Hrnčíř's speech, by your means, Madam President. I would basically follow up on a story he mentioned about marriage for everyone. In this context, I would like to thank the Czech Television Council, which declared this report unbalanced. But as I read about this report, because Mrs Fridrichová herself questioned me, I was very interested in one thing, and if it is widespread, I fear that the Czech Television commentators are not really independent. I would like to quote from Echo24: The Council also rejected Fridrichová's argument that the conflict between supporters and opponents of marriage is another battlefield of the conflict in Ukraine. - That's how I learned that when I think marriage is just a union between a man and a woman, that, in essence, I support the Russian Federation and help the war. So please, if that's what the editors are saying, they're really wrong. I claim to be conservative in my foundation, but that doesn't mean I agree with any conflict where people die. And this kind of subsoil from the editors and this kind of defense seems inappropriate to me. Such a person should simply not work on Czech TV at all. Please, I would like to see conservative opinions not interpreted by the editors so that we support the fight in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u61	Thank you for keeping time. I'll do three more apologies. Karel Krejza apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, Vladimíra Lesenská from 14:00 to 17:00 for health reasons and Jan Richter from 11:00 for work reasons. And now we come to Mr Patrik Nacher's application and Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u62	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Minister, the only one almost - no, there is the other Minister - ladies and gentlemen, I would add to my colleague Ožanová that this is not about the fight against conservativeism only, he described the conservatism as backwards. As backwards, that we, who are more conservative, conservative, are actually helping the enemy. [[unintelligible]] Sometimes that dictionary is really incredible that you hear. Before I say this - and for me, forgive me, colleagues, this is one of the most bizarre standards you have put forward here, I would call it the bizarre standard of this year, and I will explain why. I found at least three peculiarities. But before I describe it in plastic, and I'd be quite happy if the Minister would answer the odds, I'd be able to help myself here with the article that came out yesterday by Daniel Kaiser. I'm sure no one will think of him as a fan of the YES movement. Just so we're clear. It didn't work out in the Young Front or in the Lidové noviny, so you don't make excuses for it. But I think he's describing the reality pretty well. After the presidential election, the government coalition is in a hurry. One may or may not agree with the way in which it has taken on budget expenditures to regulate pensions in a legislative emergency. But hopefully he'll admit that there's a rush to the state budget. That's what I was talking about last week. On the contrary, when a person is struck by the priorities of a five-wheeler, there is a view of the program of an extraordinary meeting convened for the second week of March. The coalition is going to advocate something that doesn't make a pensioner eat, and the budget doesn't bail out: changing the way he chooses for the television and radio council. I'll keep going, I'll always make a comment. In other words, I didn't agree with what happened last week, but as it could have been, at least from your point of view, justified by the fact that there was a rush in terms of finance. Here I miss the reason why we have an extraordinary meeting because of the amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio, or why the extraordinary meeting continues. So I'm moving on. The idea of spreading the selection of councillors who control the directors of public television to both chambers so that the board and, indirectly, the CEO live in a different rhythm than the electoral cycle indicates, is good. But to call the third emergency meeting for this, it seems incomprehensible - until we start thinking in power. Then I'll pass. You can read the article on Echu24. What seems essential to me is the last or one of the last paragraphs. The second attempt, which we are witnessing, is once again in charge of the Ministry of Culture. Daniel Kaiser recalls that the Ministry of Culture has already submitted a so-called small TV amendment, where it was formally intended to bring the Senate into the election. There. Overall, however, the number of councillors fell to 12 in the original proposal at that time, with the fact that it would be fairer that they would choose only 3, that the Senate would choose only three. Now, look out: All 12 seats would be occupied again, that is, in a situation where the five-calice finally had the upper hand in both chambers. In other words, the whole current council, as the new proposal, would have been replaced by new names. It was obviously unconstitutional, as the Legislative Council of the Government stated. So the first attempt was canceled. In other words, this is the context that needs to be recalled, here once was an effort to change the board members, not by this salami method, that of 15 will be 18, but by replacing the entire council with the adoption of a new law or amendment. The second attempt, which we are witnessing, is in charge of the Ministry of Culture again. The year-old radical idea of the immediate end of the existing council has already left. It also abolishes the possibility of withdrawing the board after the House does not approve the Council of two annual reports on television management. But at this point, it's still possible, which is why my colleague Aleš Juchelka's logical proposal for you to pre-schedule it, because that's what distracts the suspicions that you don't really want to call off the present council. The intention to pull the Senate into the game remains. The strange thing is that there should be more councilmen now. So before that, there were supposed to be 12 in the proposal, there's 15 today, there's supposed to be 18 now. And those 3 are to be elected by the Senate. When the amendment comes into force, nothing prevents the Senate from electing its 3 councillors and 18 new councillors from voting for the CEO already on 7 June. And that's probably what Daniel Kaiser's article is about. I think he summed it up quite precisely, however he did not dispute that Members and senators should be involved in the election of the councillors. But he reminded us, you know, that the effort was actually here a year ago. It was clearly stated that it was unconstitutional. And now there's actually a second try. So that's kind of my number one specialty, this. That it was a second attempt at something that didn't work out before, that you lost the Legislative Council of the Government. [[10.10 hours]] The strangeness of number two for me is that by constantly proposing it as extraordinary, you suggested it at a normal meeting, but now to an extraordinary one, so you're saying that it's your priority and that it takes precedence over other things, I don't know, tax reform, budget savings and so on, and so on. And it seems strange to me, then, that you actually devote so much energy to this - and I repeat, this is the second attempt - that it takes precedence over other things. You're showing the priorities of this government. I dare say that the number of councillors in the Czech Television Council really is not the priority of today. Or it is not the theory that we are in an economic, economic crisis. But he can't pay both. It cannot be that we are in some kind of crisis, and at the same time we will discuss this standard at an emergency meeting. The speciality number three is the change of the rapporteur. I would quite like to hear from the experts, I am here on the second term, how many times did the organizing committee change the rapporteur, whom was appointed by the chairman of the electoral committee Aleš Juchelka, Martin Kolovratník, and the rapporteur was appointed by a colleague of Lacina? That seems strange to me, too. And I'm sorry, it doesn't happen that often. Or tell me, how many times has the Organizing Committee changed the newsletter? How many times did this happen? And what are the reasons? That's what's important. It's important to know that. He's not just the guy sitting here taking notes, he's got a reason. Yes, later, as I understand it was before the first reading, so the situation was underestimated, because, if I understand correctly, ColloKolovratníkReversity colleague remained the rapporteur for the committee, and this automatically became the rapporteur here in plenary, so the situation was underestimated, and at this point he is sick and replaced by colleague Babka. But the fact that at the beginning there was a change in the organizational committee, I think it's worth mentioning and pointing out. If this were happening at every meeting, I wouldn't mention it here, that's what I need to say. But the fact that it's happening right now in this sensitive standard, I think it's noticeable. Oddness number four for me. That's the quick change I've been talking about in these factual remarks. This means that the change is quick, if you make it this quickly, that's why the extraordinary meetings are, so basically it will touch the running competition for the CEO of Czech Television. Well, that's just a weird thing to do. Because if it was about the system, you don't care if it's true now, or three months, or six months, from January 1, 2024, because it's a systemic change that you're expanding numbers, you're pulling the Senate into it and everything. I wouldn't have to agree with everything, but I would respect that it's just some sort of majority decision. But the moment you're in such an extreme hurry, it just raises these question marks, and it's up to you to answer them, because, of course, the questions about the current CEO selection process are logically in the air, and you haven't distracted them yet. The minister repeatedly said it was our world, your world, I remember it. But that is not the answer to the question of what change is that it would not apply now, but that it would apply from 1 January. What's the change? Well, for me, the only thing graspable and understandable is that the director's choice will pass. Which reminds me, I remember - and I was on the electoral committee during the last parliamentary term, I once suggested, I had 21 questions on Czech Television, I was the rapporteur of the annual management report, I guess it was in 2016 or 2017, and I had a proposal to interrupt it until I got the answers. And then it was almost an attack on the independence of Czech television. Today you're changing the rules in the middle of a run, you're not able to explain it, as I said at the beginning, it's the second attempt to change the Czech Television Council, and nothing's happening. Millions of moments don't decompose, they don't protest. Summer is not full, Wenceslas Square is not full, even Lesser Town Square. So I'd like to ask here, too, through I don't know who, a million moments, where are they at this point? Well, now... And now... [[Minister Baxa from the newsstand. - The speaker's laughing.]] The minister here is telling me something, so let him say it on the microphone, because if I reacted to it, the audience and the rest of you wouldn't hear what I'm reacting to. So then I'm gonna ask the minister to tell these funny glossies on the microphone so we can all have some fun. Now the contents. The basic change is that the number of councillors is increasing from 15 to 18. And I still haven't heard what it's in. We did some nine, six and so on here last time. So we can take math classes down in the cafeteria. I don't know what the political justification is, why is it supposed to be 18? I asked if there was more work. Is there more complaints? I understand that. But it's not consistent power when you proposed 12 a year ago, and now 18. So you have to make some sort of decision, co-workers, colleagues from the government coalition, whether you're going one way or the other. The important thing is to be consistent. Once design 12, twice 18 and always justify it somehow... So if I were to take the factors of nine, 12 divided by nine, the power doesn't work. Then, and this is an important change, it must not fit into the fact that the call for appointment or appeal by the Director-General is reduced from two thirds to the majority. That's important. Because today two thirds of 15 is 10, while the overhalf majority of 18 is also 10. So you actually need the same number as today for the director's choice, but you have three councilmen more. Why? In other words, the second question, if I may ask, what is the added value of this change? That it's not two-thirds and it's just a half-way majority? I didn't get that. He's reading again -- and it's suspicious, and it's up to you to distract him -- to make the choice easier, to make it seem like it's going to work out, because I don't see the reason. If the Director is to have any support in the board in terms of trust and credibility, it seems to me that two-thirds is a much stronger mandate than having only half the majority. And one final point. So I've already quoted journalists here, I've told you four peculiarities of this standard, I've asked a few questions, and now I'm going to put it all in some context. And the context is what's been going on here since the elections in the media area. I'll remind you what my colleague Aleš Juchelka said today, so it doesn't matter that one election to the Czech Television Council has already been made here, and by not being successful in the secret choice, you made it public. That's kind of the context of the situation. This law didn't just come out of nowhere. We must perceive him in some context. And the connection is that for the first time in a few parliamentary periods, you've run out of patience with your own Members, that's for a government coalition who had their opinion and didn't choose the councillors you wanted, so you made a public choice, which doesn't seem too democratic to me. I remember, I have that printscreen - 99 present, 99 pros. Does that seem okay to you? And that's the context, that's the thing. It is the councilman's choice for the Czech Television Council. So you can't take this standard that we're discussing in isolation, it's just in some context of a few steps that have been done before. So I'm asking if it's okay that we've retreated from this secret election and we're going to vote here publicly so that we can all be in control so that club presidents can control their MPs as they vote? Fairly in this, I have to admit, the pirát have always been for public choice, they've always been for public choice, they're consistent, the others have unfortunately gone to the other side of the barricades, so to speak, they've always defended the secret choice as a democratic principle, and suddenly they've gone to the public. [[10.20 hours]] It is also necessary to perceive in the context everything that is going on in the fight against misinformation, because it has to do with what this government proposes for me - the incoming censorship, the activities of the KRIT Group at the Ministry of the Interior, some vision for the future regarding funds for nonprofit organizations or selected media. This is all in some context, which is related because it is related to the media space, which includes public Czech television and Czech radio. And it resulted in the end of Deputy Michal Klíma. So really, for me, this is very dangerous, I'd say, the environment that the government... or I'd say, the environment is normal, but the government took it dangerously, I'd say, causing concern about the upcoming censorship, of hindrance to some of the selected media and so on. And all of this is now wrapped in a context that will in principle culminate in the approval of this novel on Czech Television and on Czech Radio, which you are so in front of you. So, ladies and gentlemen, I've summed up four peculiarities for you here, I've asked a few, I feel like five, questions, a few rhetorical questions you don't even have to answer. I'll be glad if the Minister gets involved in this debate, it's nothing personal, and it's clear, inconclusive things, inconsistent procedure, and the thing I'm totally convinced of, because I was on the electoral committee during the last parliamentary term, that if we did a third of what you're proposing here, you'd be rushing us out of here, you'd be organizing demonstrations, a third of that, a tenth of what I'm saying. I will. As rapporteur, I took the liberty of interrupting negotiations on the annual report on the Czech Television's economy because I put it there, look at the record, 21 questions, and only my news report lasted 40 minutes, on the Election Committee, and suddenly it became an attack on Czech Television and on freedom of speech, and I don't know what everything, trying to dominate and so on. So please, be consistent about this, try looking at us as opposition after the experience of last week. Again, if we did this, there would be a revolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u63	Thank you. That was Mr Patrik Nacher, and now we have three factual and two preferential rights of the two gentlemen present. Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Mr Martin Exner, then the rapporteur, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I'm still on program 168. One hundred and sixty-six, a long-term vocal oven of progressiveism, attacks and ridicules everyone who has a different opinion. And so do I. I have to say, as far as I'm concerned, they were making fun of my diagnosis on New Year's Silvestr. I'm a sick person, the disease's kind of manifesting itself, and they were making fun of it on New Year's Silvestr. I find that very tacky. And I have to say that all this, despite all the reservations, but I think that Czech television should not be nationalized, that it should remain a public medium, and that although there are various aberrations and different deviations from what we would think should be a standard of what a public service medium really looks like, then public media should remain a public medium, even though we often do not like it and even though there are often failures of individuals or individual programs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Martin Exner will now respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also perhaps have a rhetorical question for Mr Nacher, through Madam President. What, specifically, when you're talking about the censorship, what exactly did some KRIT or government censor somewhere? As far as I know, Agrofert has two newspapers in his portfolio, he has television, radio stations. Who ever censored him? Well, who ever censored him when you talk about the censorship? So please, that's the question I'm asking you. You've been asking questions here, too, so please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u67	Thank you. It was mentioned that this was done through the President. And now, Mr Ondřej Babka and Mr Marek Novák, the de facto Member, are reporting. I'm just pointing out that the two priority rights are also logged in. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u68	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I am going to take advantage of the fact that the Minister for Legislation Šalomoun has signed up with priority rights, and I am already here in the discussion, I think, in the second and third reading, he mentioned a few things that seem to be inaccurate from the legislative point of view. The one question that I think should not fit in, too, and it is a matter which, in my opinion, does not make sense that it has appeared in that law, and that is that this proposal interferes in an unacceptable way with the internal circumstances of the council, namely that the Council will have to have one President either from the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and then it will have a Vice-President who will have to be from the other chamber. If we understand each other. The President will be elected by the Senate, so the Vice-President, one Vice-President, will have to be elected by the House. This means that you elected a member of the board - the elected member of the media board will be bound by law to a certain choice, to a particular choice from which he will have to choose twelve of the eighteen, or six of the eighteen. This is according to the Council of Europe Recommendation No. 96/10. This is contrary to the recommendation on guarantees of the independence of the public media. So, did you specifically address this question? Because it doesn't make sense to me either logically or by some common sense, unless we're dividing the councilman into two categories here, and now I'm not saying whether it's worse or better, but two categories of councillors, senators and MPs, and now we're telling them how they have to vote. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u69	Thank you. I am merely stating that Mr Jan Richter withdraws his apology, he is already present. In fact, Mr Marek Novák is also reporting and Mrs Margita Balaštíková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, everyone. I, through your, Madam President, on Mr Exner's coalition. Don't be mad at me, but if you want to compare private media and public media here, please come with us and support the novel that we're presenting here, and let's cancel at least the socially weak fees for Czech television. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u71	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u72	Hello, colleagues. I would like to speak to my colleague Exner, through you, Madam President. I performed here 14 days ago. I had the evidence. I'm afraid I don't have it now. But just so you know, I'll do it again. Foreign media agencies were doing a breakdown of which media in the Czech Republic was least tendential, yes, they took only part of the section during the presidential elections. So, my colleague, Exner, in the first place as the least tendenční, the media in the possession of the guardianship fund of the colleague here and the worst ended as the Czech television. I don't have the evidence to quote you specifically, which, but Czech TV was the worst. So I guess you're wrong. And the way you remembered some media here again, I don't think anybody else here is interested in preferring private media. That's how it went down, how it worked out, so they posted it. So you're out of luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher and Mr Aleš Juchelka, with due cause for debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a paradoxical situation that coalition Members are asking questions and opposition responds. It should be the other way around. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] So you don't answer yet, so you have the opportunity to apply for a factual one, but I will answer my colleague Exner. When you look at everything that KRIT has prepared within the Ministry of the Interior, he said that 450,000 people are working in the service of the state, who are direct executors of state policy, and they need to be in some way - I don't know how I would say it - as if to protect or prevent them from radicalizing. The enemy's manipulative techniques need to be named, disgraced. That KRIT just clearly writes here a strategy on how to communicate with state employees, how to stand up, in quotes, against misinformation. I've said here several times that what was misinformation a year ago turned out to be true. They divide serious, trustworthy media and untrustworthy media and so forth, and so forth. Members of the radically populist part of the political spectrum are using information. So no more misinformation - information. Like the red thread of all this is just the hint of censorship. This may not be about the fact that it is forbidden to talk about it, but when a bearer of any opinion may say critical to this government, it gets into such gearing and gets such stickers that it simply will not do it again. So here are the hints, and all the activities around it, don't be mad at me, they lead to that. Like I said, suggest half of what KRIT suggested, if it were under the previous government, you'd have made three extraordinary meetings in a row! [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u75	Thank you. Let me say hello to all of you. My colleague and I took turns. Another factual point will be from Mr Juchelka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u76	Thank you very much. I will also reply to Mr Exner, through you. We had Mr. Michal Klíma on the Social Policy Committee a few weeks ago, because during Christmas he came out in Deník N the very scandalous action plan leading up to misinformation, which revealed the 50 million crowns to subsidize the nonprofits to seek, determine and point to the misinformation, and the 100 million crowns to support the media to do so-called enlightenment. And in a few weeks, Mr. Michal Klíma is lucky to be finished in this position. For example, the Union of Publishers, which has 90 per cent of all media publishers, whether printed or electronic, or others, has, for example, written - I quote: "The action plan intends to use more than CZK 100 million from the state budget without being clear to which entities such funds should be provided and what guarantees the citizens of the Czech Republic will have that there will be no abuse of this instrument for support, quotes, worthy media, as in Hungary for example. Such a setting would only help to create a corrupt environment in the media space that we consider completely unacceptable in today's democratic society." End of quote. And this is what the Union of Publishers writes. And all of these indications, what this government is doing with the media environment, how it treats the individual publishers, who it hires as government agents in its government ranks, like Mr. Michal Klíma, who is a very controversial figure in the history of all the media, where it has been with the Foundation's independent journalism fund and so on, so everything leads to this - even here with this law that we are discussing here - that you actually have the plan with the media to scrape them off and somehow get them under you. Unfortunately, at this point, we are talking about public media, and that is unacceptable for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u77	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Another of the applicants is Mr Martin Exner. I'll use the time to apologize before you arrive. Mr Kučera from 10.30 to 13.00 for working reasons and Vice-President Skopeček from 10.30 to 12.00 for health reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u78	Good morning again or good morning. I'd like to check again. I asked where the censorship went. You haven't answered that question, and you're turning it over to a fight against misinformation, which is completely legitimate, completely transparent, that's not the point. Disinformation is a clear matter, it is a deliberate lying, manipulated misinformation with some purpose to influence something, knowingly lying, and there is certainly nothing wrong with that. But I said here that no one interfered with what they're gonna write, whether private or public paper. KRIT doesn't specify anything like that, he hasn't censored anything, no article has been banned, so please don't manipulate it here in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u79	Another of the entries with a factual remark is Mr Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u80	Thank you very much. I will respond to my honored colleague, Mr. Exner. He doesn't even have to manipulate anything around here. We say and present only the facts, only what this government comes up with. With everything that she has already done after her election, the Chamber of Deputies or the Government of the Czech Republic, from the controversial shut-down of the websites that she had to load, through Michal Klíma, who was a government agent for media and disinformation, which was very controversial, the amendment of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. And I could go on like this. You simply politicized, as I say, by acclamation to the Czech Television Council. That's right. You guys voted for your own deputies here. Everyone knows they're your people because you haven't defended, like the House of Deputies has always done for 30 years, a secret choice with personnel! You didn't defend her because you weren't able to reach a five-wheeler. That is why you wanted to watch over each other's Members, how you will vote and who will raise their hand so that you can then bully them. That's simply a fact, because otherwise you wouldn't have chosen the five councilmen there! And this is the first, first part of censorship, so-called self-censorship, where everyone has to look after themselves because they're afraid to express their opinion with the acclamation, because if you vote secretly, freely behind the plentiful and express your opinion secretly, and then you vote for acclaim and publicly, there's just some kind of pressure. And we can put that pressure either through censorship from all those who control it or through self-censorship, because I'm afraid to vote this way about what's going to happen to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u81	Thank you. The next one, in fact, is Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have yet again to see my colleague Exner, through you. He explained it here already Aleš Juchelka, I will not repeat it. Listen again to what I said in my speech. I didn't say the state did censorship. I said they're already here... [[Odds from the diaper.]] Listen to this. I mean, I've been going down the street, but I know I have notes that I said, and I know I said that because I was standing here when I said that. [[Fun.]] So, co-workers, co-workers, I think that's pretty clear. I said that there are those censorship efforts, that there are activities leading to censorship, and that is what I insist! That what really happens here and, unfortunately, with the help of support groups such as KRIT, it leads to that. And, colleague, through the Vice-President, the fight against misinformation. What's this misinformation? I'm quite interested in that. Even in the presidential campaign, I came across some misinformation that went in the opposite direction, but they weren't so intrigued. In other words, the bottom line for me is that misinformation is actually uncomfortable information. Uncomfortable information. Not to mention those cases where something was misinformation a year ago, and I'm not going back to it here, they were, like, some of the results around the covideo, and now it turns out they're facts. That means your fight against so-called misinformation is very dangerous, and already the person who actually defines himself against it gets the label that he actually wants to spread disinformation, and that's not true. So I have to make a very strong decision about that. Give me specific examples and specific pluses of what should stand in this and how he should deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u83	Thank you for keeping time. We took turns with the Vice-President because he will also present his response to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u84	Thank you. Well, it picked me up from the chair - thank you for the short replacement - because to say that there was no threat of censorship, you can't be serious, Mr. Ambassador. We all know you've set up a government agent to fight misinformation. One thing is that the minister could do it. Okay, you made someone else do it. But that makes you responsible for what this person is presenting. Let's see what he's put forward. That was an official document, not some documentary someone was playing somewhere. This was an action plan whereby the media was to be divided into those that were more aware, less aware, the conscious media was to receive a subsidy of around CZK 100 million, less conscious media should go straight to court, in quotes, because the law was to change, and in that you wanted to set up special grant programs for nonprofits, which would somehow distribute the way in which they should write well or write badly. We can't be serious about this! That is why the huge wave of opposition has risen, not only from the opposition, but also from a number of actors in the sector, including a number of publishers. That's why I dare say that eventually the government's agent Klíma is finished. But we can't say that this experiment wasn't here. Yes, you're right. Fortunately, it didn't pass, and it wasn't approved because everyone opposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u85	Thank you for keeping time. With the reaction of President Michálek, Mrs Margita Balaštíková will then be prepared. And I'm returning the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, I will respond to my esteemed colleague Patrik Nacher. How can someone here in 2023 ask what misinformation is? So open up Wikipedia and read it there. Disinformation is part of propaganda and is defined as false information that is deliberately distributed to deceive people. And you want an example? That's an example of your boss sharing information before the election and scaring people that migrants would move into their huts, that they'd be entertained by cabins, and that he was finally convicted of it, and he didn't have the decency to come here on a microphone and apologize for it. This is an example of misinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u87	Another of the entries is with Ms Margita Balaštíková in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u88	Beautiful afternoon. I wanted to go to something completely different, but now my colleague Michálek has charged me, so through you, Mr President: Well, my colleague, it is good that you have instructed us. So Mr. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jurečka tells us that he will not touch pensions. In three weeks, they're telling us they need to touch their pensions because our state would go bankrupt. Is it misinformation? According to Wikipedia, yes. So fine, this entire government is actually the spreaders of disinformation according to Wikipedia, because they said otherwise, and they claimed it precisely to influence the election of the President of the Czech Republic. So thank you for your lesson, and we can give them a report card. You're doing well, you're the best misinformers. You can do great, student!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u89	Mrs. Ožanová. Next of the entries is Mr Marek Novák and Mr Robert králíček. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u90	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond to my colleague Michálek, through you, Mr Vice-President. You know, I'm still in the main - because there's a conflict going on that I'm not indifferent to - when a rocket hit Polish territory, what information came from international officials? I said, was it misinformation? They were. It was purposeful information. I never said anything about it, but let's remember that somebody on the Ukrainian side was lying, so that it wasn't really clear where the rocket came from. It's just on the edge. Furthermore, in one medium, which I sometimes play, there was such interesting information from one MEP from STAN that what is misinformation. Disinformation is the opposite of information. So I guess Mr. Zdechovský didn't read Wikipedia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u91	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Novák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for letting me know to watch Wikipedia to understand something. I, Mr Michálek, through the honourable President, may be the only one - for me, misinformation is mainly your electoral agenda, because at the beginning of each article you miss NO. That's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u93	Thank you. Another Mr Robert králíček applied for and Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u94	Mr President, fellow Members, I would have asked Mr Michálek if he hadn't run away cowardly, where was he when Mr Babiš was liberated in the case of Capi Nest, that he would still be here? Where was he when it was discovered that Agrofert wasn't responsible for Bečva's poisoning? He didn't do that here, and he didn't say how wrong the courts were, and he didn't apologize. And if you want a catalogue of misinformation, read the government's programming statement, there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u95	Another of the applicants, Mr Hubert Lang, and then Mrs Jana Berkovcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'm very glad Mr. Michálek's been teaching us here. He's already made more statements like that. For example, he said that everything that is on the Internet may not be true, Masaryk said. [[Fun in the hall.]] So that's exactly what his obsession goes on in this context. I believe that this man is not entirely healthy, that he should live his life under some supervision of a competent nurse, because his obsession with our chairman is just awful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u97	I will ask Mrs Jana Berkovcová with a factual remark and Mr Jiří Hájek will be prepared, then Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u98	I will also follow up on Mr Michálek and my colleague, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, as a matter of fact. I'm gonna go back to what it is, a broken promise or a lie or misinformation. Who here promised in his government programming statement that he would guarantee all pedagogical workers' salaries at 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic? And who quietly submitted an amendment to the amendment to the school law, so quietly that no heated discussion would take place? So your point of view - you threw overboard 40,000 teaching staff, you narrowed your proposal only to teachers, you changed your programming statement - and that's okay. So your view of what's a lie, what's a broken promise, what's a misinformation, is much different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u99	Thank you. Another enlisted member, Mr. Jiří Hájek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u100	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I see that disinformation has turned into a beautiful round of discussion here today, and I think we are all listening very much right now and looking forward to who will come up with some more disinformation. So I have just caught Mrs Ožanová here, through Mr President, telling us that the Member, the unnamed MEP Zdechovský, is a member of the STAN. So I would like to point out that it really never has been, and thank you for further disinformation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u101	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u102	Colleagues, thank you for the space. Well, I gotta say, you're good at it. You're here to answer our questions, the Minister's logged in, as far as I know, with priority rights. We're all looking forward to those reactions, and instead, you're going to take such a step aside. You guys were probably watching the show Sure, Mr. Secretary or Sure, Prime Minister. And now, of course, we're getting caught up in this because we want to communicate, we're interactive, so we're responding, we're answering, and we're giving you examples of the misinformation. Well, I'll give Mr. Exner one, too, because I'm kind of a persistent person who just answers when a question is asked. But I promise for the last time, because I want to hear the Minister's answers to this amendment. [[10.50 hours]] Well, let me tell you, Mr. Exner, one example. It's disinformation, isn't it? Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on January 22 in Questions Václav Moravec said that he would not change the valorisation of pensions because there are legitimate expectations. What was that? Information, misinformation, a lie? I'd really like to know. Because in three weeks, that didn't work anymore. What's that? What's this? Or is it something like information that's not right for us at this point? Or has something changed significantly in those three weeks? But in what way? Maybe economically. And that's what we've been discussing here is that it's not true, but the legitimate expectation there is always the same. This means that this is a specific example of this. And where are you going to put it according to Wikipedia, this statement by Marian Jurečka in Václav Moravec's questions? Where? Intel, misinformation, or just some rhetoric at the time of the election campaign? That's where I'd put it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u103	Thank you. At this point, this was the last point in fact, and I would like to ask Mr Foldyna. Sorry, we actually have priority here, and that was Minister Šalomoun and then Minister Baxa. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually like to add to what Mr Patrik Nacher said, and I have tried to answer what Mr Babka said, in fact, how, say, not this particular press, but at all the intention of involving the Senate in the elections of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio, it has actually been implemented. The intention, which is legitimate here, was here and actually competently, of course, interferes with the Ministry of Culture, which it had and also prepared as a proposal for the amendment of the law amending the Czech Television Act, the Czech Radio. And the original proposal was submitted for consideration by the Government Legislative Council, which therefore subjected it to relatively strong criticism, and it really simply found there to be unconstitutional elements, especially in those transitional provisions, when it was about the fact that in those transitional provisions it was that the mandates of the existing members were actually ending after some time. And the Government's Legislative Council thought that this might interfere with the right of access to public office, where that right of access to public office should actually include the fact that the function would be exercised for some time. If you still want to decorate it with the right to legitimate expectations, this would be a good place to do it. And that, in fact, this solution, as the Ministry of Culture has chosen it, is not fully necessary to achieve the objective pursued, which is that the Senate should intervene in this election, and that it would probably not have passed the proportionality test. And then there was some concern about some other effect, because actually the termination of those mandates could be perceived by some kind of optics as some sort of instrumental withdrawal of those members. And if Article 4 of the Constitution applies that fundamental rights and freedoms are under the protection of judicial authority, then here - as a right to some kind of judicial protection of the appeal, it would basically be like being hugged. So the result of the assessment of this proposal in the Government's Legislative Council was that the government did not recommend it. And now I'm going to add to what Mr. Babka asked. This is actually the part that reads: The Council elects the President and the Vice-President from among them and withdraws them. If the President is elected from members elected by the Chamber of Deputies, the Vice-President will be elected from members elected by the Senate, and vice-versa. In fact, this provision already contained the initially problematic proposal, which was also assessed by the Government's Legislative Council. And that's where no one found that there should be some unconstitutional or weirdness in it. So none of the members of the Government's Legislative Council had any doubt that this article did not, in principle, call for a collision. However, this position of the Government Legislative Council was not recommended. The government dealt with it. So the government is not always paying attention to the recommendations of the Legislative Council of the Government, so this is where it heeded the recommendation, and it certainly did not accept this proposal. That point was interrupted and the Minister of Culture was actually forced to submit some other, some other modification that would involve the Senate, and he was supposed to reflect all the reservations that were in that position, which he was able to do in principle. And this is the new proposal that you are discussing here today, and, in principle, government legislation did not have any comments of the parties as unconstitutional. She once had one small gloss that was not completely removed, and that's that there are actually two principles in history, where every two years one third of those council members are chosen, and then it's like six years old. And actually, these two rules are difficult to apply both at the same time. And the rule that every two years one third is elected is basically obsolent. So government legislation suggested removing this from it because of the obsolescence, but it didn't really happen. But even though it's still there, it doesn't cause any unconstitutional collision. After all, the obsolvency has been there for decades. So what you're considering today is basically not a problem for the Legislative Council of the Government anymore, because the fundamental unconstitutional elements that it saw in it, which were the transitional resolutions, so they're not there today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u105	Thank you. And with priority rights, Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to the suggestions of my honored colleague Patrik Nacher and to some other questions, the comments that have been made here in the debate. I have already responded to most of them when I responded to the suggestions of Vice-President Dostálová, who formulated 17 questions at the last emergency meeting. But of course, the extraordinary meeting continues, so I will answer it again, or maybe some more detail, and certainly, if I forget one, I will be very happy to fill it in afterwards. I will certainly not answer one thing from Mr Nacher's initiative, and that is the question of changing the rapporteur in the electoral committee. I am not a member of the electoral committee, I have not participated in this meeting, I do not know the circumstances under which this alleged change occurred. Well, I'm sorry about that, I guess, or maybe my colleagues should explain that. I will take the development of this amendment chronologically and during this chronological interpretation will certainly respond to the vast majority of the questions that were here. The Senate's involvement in the election of media councils was part of Prime Minister Fiala's government statement. And not only have I fulfilled it, or do I implement it with this bill, but I clearly agree with it because the proposal clearly aims to strengthen the resilience of the public media, it complicates any political attempt to elect those who would be obedient to the relevant political parties to media councils, simply because the election cycles of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies are different. Their political composition is different, and this mix is actually causing great difficulties for those who would think that through media advice they would want to fulfill such an unfortunate achievement. We prepared the bill in January 2022. There was then a confrontation with the Legislative Council of the Government. When the Minister and my honored colleague, Michal Šalomoun, said that there was a justification on the part of the LRV, I would just add the justification on the part of the Ministry of Culture. My legal experts do not share this view of the Government's Legislative Council, do not share and do not share. We are not convinced that it bears signs of unconstitutionality. Our argument was based on the fact that this is such a fundamental change in the form of media councils that there is a legitimate reason to choose all members. But we have learned that discussing a standard that would be marked or branded in this way in the Chamber of Deputies, then in the Senate, would put too much pressure on it to focus its attention on the matter itself. We disagreed with the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, but we retreated on this matter and prepared the version that is presented today. [[11.00 hours]] One of my colleagues asked when this bill appeared in the House. I brushed it up myself in my memories. The House press arrived on 30 June last year. This in itself could be the answer to the question, or to the accusation, whether this bill is intended to serve for the purposes that colleagues from the opposition repeatedly mention here, namely to dominate the choice of media councils and their means of controlling the election of the CEO. The proposal was submitted here last year. This is a completely absurd reflection in time that we should have such considerations, but, of course, as this discussion has been considerably extended - among other things, I will remind you that for the first time this bill was included in the House's agenda in the first July meeting of the House of Commons last year, which means that he was here very soon, but then I would say the opposition didn't get to it, and therefore it actually goes on longer and longer. Very often, there is an argument here as to why we do not accept Mr Babka's amendment with effect from 1 January 2024. Given how long this bill has been under discussion, I see no reason to move it further. Let me just remind you of one thing in context. If we do not share this opinion, we as a government want to involve the Senate in the elections of media councils, so in the case of the Czech Television Council, where the Senate has 6 seats, so 3 seats are elected newly, these are 15+3=18, and 3 seats should be elected after the expiry of the term of office of the three councillors, which is completed at the end of June. That means three seats will be released in the middle of this year. Effective from 1 January 2024 means a six-month period during which the election by the Chamber of Deputies should therefore be made so as not to leave 3 seats available in the Council of Czech Television, but that is against the meaning of the law. This means that for a very long time the choice of the other three senate councillors would be blocked, and thus the creation of the proportionality of one third to two thirds. But, of course, this argument has come into effect now that the opposition's obvious efforts are to ensure that this law, which strengthens the resilience of public media, is not adopted. This argument would not have been valid six months ago if it had been accepted without further adoption. It will enter into force today. And I'm sure I'll mention him here if I'm asked about him repeatedly. I firmly believe that the mechanism is correct, that this mechanism is to be put to life at this point in time, as I presented this bill last year. I even said that we will start working on the big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act when this law is adopted. However, when I see or when I saw not because of the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a law strengthening the resilience of public media in the autumn of last year, the work on the big novels has not only been launched, but it is running strongly, and we are actually getting into some sort of coincidence of these laws. But I firmly believe that we will be able to approve this small amendment in time, we are already at third reading, and that there will therefore not be a paradoxical discussion of both of these bills together. I just want to stress that our government coalition will not come forward, I even want to stress, it will never accept that we withdraw from the principle of licence fees. I do not really agree with what Mrs Balaštíková presented here. And the question is whether this is your view as an ANO opposition movement on this matter, which I think eliminates any joint debate over the big amendment, because it is a completely fundamental discrepancy with how public media is to be financed. But I'm sure that's part of the other discussion about the so-called big novel. I would point out that all our intentions, as far as the small amendment is concerned, have been communicated publicly for a long time, but, of course, such a debate also belongs on the House's land. I just want to do it again, not as if, but again, actually, to say that it seems to me... When my colleague Nacher here spoke of the bizarreness of the proposal, I will allow myself to use the word and say that it seems completely bizarre to think that our government would mess with censorship in any way. I really, really don't understand this argument at all. I understand why the opposition MP is creating a network or web of arguments in which it wraps the issue of censorship, but it really seems bizarre and absurd to me, to talk about censorship. But we can't agree on that. During the last meeting of the House, my colleague Babka drew my attention to such an outcome from our discussions in the House, where we talked about the different worlds, as well as the video edited on Instagram. Well, I'm not gonna talk about these worlds so much that we don't find ourselves in that haircut again, but I think it's evidence of something. If, Mr Nacher, through the Vice-President, are you really convinced that our government has censorship plans? I don't understand. Knowing how bright, analytical, commenting you are, I don't understand how you can seriously mean anything about censorship that's connected with the regime before 1989. It's your position, of course, your position. I still owe the answer to the question about the number. I was the one who clearly supported the proposal to expand the number of Councillors of Czech Television from 15 to 18. As much as this argument is repeated here, I would say even ridiculed, so I stand by it clearly. Public television is a medium multiplied by public radio, not only by the budget, but also by its overall production. It's logical television versus radio. I think that more numerous and thoughtful, because in any extension, whatever kind of election this will definitely happen, the Czech Television Council is for the benefit of the matter. That's just an opinion that I don't think we're gonna agree on. I think it's just right that it's part of it. If I've forgotten the answer to any of your questions, I'm ready to respond again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u107	Thank you. Thus, another of the entries with the factual point which he wishes to respond is Mr Juchelka, then Mrs Pastuchová and then Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u108	Thank you very much. I always enjoy the speech of the Minister, because he still covers it up, actually, how it's all great, transparent, democratic, principled and valuable, and yet everyone knows the opposite is true. Well, I'll be quoting here. The Minister says that this amendment - I quote - complicates political attempts to make something like this happen in the public media. So I don't understand, if it complicates the political attempts to control, then why did you vote for acclamation? That's my question. Why did you vote publicly for those councilmen yourself, without opposition, without her votes? Because we want to vote for the staff as is the 30-year tradition of this House, a secret choice. You're arguing with each other here because your beautiful conversations are simply and simply beating with the facts. You also said that it strengthens the resilience of public media. Well, I think maybe before transparency, yeah, definitely. I think you're just making it harder for the councillors to make it simple and simple to choose and dismiss the CEO. And what really bothers me about it is that you really gamble with trust and credibility as advice. You, even with the words of Minister Šalomoun, you are not even able to trust the Council of Czech Television that it is capable of electing its President and Vice-President as an institution which is formally elected by the Chamber of Deputies, and you are telling them in the law who is to be chairman and vice-chairman, because you are likely to vote there for some unrighteous people. I'll get to other things in another factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u109	Thank you. Now, Mrs Pastuchová. Then I have three more facts. And all I'm saying is that we also have two registered with priority rights, President Babiš and Minister Baxa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I couldn't be here this morning, I was at the doctor's, but now I was listening in my headphones to some speeches here from the House. I was intrigued by the speech of Mr. Michálek's pirate Member, who always comes running, finds out something, burns it on us here, always runs against President Babiš, and walks away again. He was talking about disinformation. I would like to ask, by your means, Mr Michálek - from the Pirate Party there is only the Minister, no MP - if the misinformation is what they had on their posters. I have it here, and there's Vice-President Richterová under it - that the future belongs to seniors, seniors on board. Well, it seems to me that they've put the seniors under heavy decks now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u111	Another enrollment is Mr Volný, then Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have an explanation for the Minister here. He's wondering if he's a colleague. Nacher's talking about censorship, and he's kind of comparing it to the previous regime. I would explain to him where censorship begins. Censorship begins when someone usurps to decide what misinformation is and what information is. Not to mention that this government guarantee has even set up a government body to decide what information is and what misinformation is. Colleagues, colleagues, this is censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u113	Thank you. Mr Nacher will also be prepared and Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to respond to both ministers. Thank you for their reaction. I wrote to Minister Šalomoun that he used such subtle expressions several times, which caused a certain exclamation point in me. He said, basically, it's okay, basically, basically. So either she's okay or she's not. We, who have been in politics for some time, have been the kind of helping word that they say, supposedly, basically, we know it's not really there. I'd just like to say that to the Minister, but I don't even want him to react to that anymore. I noticed that. Take a look at the log. I feel like he said it three times. As far as the Minister of Culture is concerned. Well, Minister, you replied that this is a priority, a change in the rapporteur. Fair enough, you added that. You don't know the process. Maybe someone else will answer it here. That speed, that's where I still can't hear it. I didn't hear the answer to that number either, because the first draft was 12 councilmen, now it's 18 - where the change happened, first smaller, then bigger? After that, why did the concession change to appoint a director? That seems pretty crucial to me. It went down from two thirds to half. As for the censorship, as mentioned here, I'll tell you what I think the problem is. Today, many of these things can be dealt with by law. Lawyers know. Spreading alarm reports, slander, you can file criminal charges, sue someone, and so on. Everything is covered by clear paragraphs. It needs to be used. What we fear - I will speak for myself not to speak for my colleagues - what I fear is that, as you twitch it, it really leads to restricting freedom of speech. And that's a step towards the upcoming censorship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u115	Thank you. I have to measure them all the same. Mr. Mr. Babka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to the Minister and to what has been said here. Minister, we wanted you to dispel not only our concerns, but also the credibility of the new CEO, who will be elected this year, because you are simply interfering with this open competition by amending the law. There are dealers who may not trust the Czech Television or have such great confidence in the CEO. Of course there are such people. You're interfering with the competition, so you're just putting the CEO forward without us knowing who he's gonna be elected, so you're distrusting him. That's the point. And your argument that you have it in the government's programming statement and that the law should have been effective from 1. 1st of this year, she's odd. You said here that you sent the bill here on 30 June last year, yes, and that you couldn't assume there was going to be a tender. Oh, please, you're changing the principle of the CEO's election. So what we're pointing out here was obvious last year. I've been pointing that out here at first reading. The fact that it is now getting more awareness or media space is simply that there has been a lack of understanding. As for the guy who mentioned Patrik Nacher here, that's another incomprehensible move. Why he's down to ten. And I could quote here why the board's main competence is the choice of the CEO. [[Time.]] Sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u117	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, then Minister Baxa, de facto. Then there are three other Members. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u118	I will continue with my previous factual statement to Minister Bax, because he said that there is a larger budget than in the Czech Radio. The Czech Radio is a two-billion-dollar, and there are nine councillors. It's roughly seven billion on Czech television, which is, we can say, triple, if we round it up somehow, but we only have 18 councilmen, we don't have three times as many as 27. Well, I guess it's just not an argument. There's an increase in the councilmen just to make sure most of the government coalition is there, which we all know. This is completely unnecessary, because it unnecessarily increases the Czech TV budget to the additional salaries of three councillors, which is 2 million a year, for which it is possible to produce a public programme throughout the year. I could continue this way from the point of view of these questions and the number of councilmen. We've got 15, 15 can stay. One third of 15 is five. I don't understand why we're supposed to have 18 at a time. I don't understand some of your arguments here. The one. 1. 2024, so of course my colleague Babka's right. You can support this here, this amendment, you can let it be effective from 1. 1. 2024. Well, of course it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u119	Thank you. With the de facto Minister, then Mr Zlinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor. Like this, colleague Juchelka, through the Vice-President, it's not going to be okay. There would have been three vacant seats for six months. But that's just some kind of temporal connection to how it's being discussed. I now owe the answers to two suggestions from my colleague Nacher. It's enough to make a point of fact. The original Senate consideration of 12 councilmen in the 6-6 ratio did not have the character of a proposal. It was some concept that was discussed in the last parliamentary term. I wasn't even at the debate. From the very beginning, we have been entering into this with the fact that it is the Chamber of Deputies that will have a greater representation, and we have agreed on the two-thirds option. It is a proposal that is discussed with senate colleagues, and I assume that when this bill is discussed in the Senate, I don't think it will be a problem. About the appeal papers. Let me just remind you that when we get to the vote at the third reading, I will agree, either for the Ministry of Culture or as Minister, on the amendment of my colleague Lacina and Mr Kolovratník, to determine the qualified majority of the members of the Czech Television Councils and the Czech Radio for the appeal of the Directors General. This means making it difficult for the Director-General's board to appeal. [[11.20 hours]] In the election itself, I am convinced that the current proposal, which means 10 councilmen of the 18th amendment, is adequate for this situation, as if extending the chances for those candidates, if they are in more number or not only in more number, but let's say some more varied, with some more varied view of the management of Czech television, they are applying for office. I think there is a very different situation here, where the choice of councilmen is, therefore, chosen from the concepts put forward by the individual candidates, versus the appeal, which is really a strong, hard instrument in quotes against the Director-General himself. Well, that's just to explain two more suggestions from Mr. Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u121	So I have two more factual points, Mr Zlínský, who has so far signed up and Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u122	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will attend to the narrative of disinformation that was mentioned here in the debate. It's my subject. I'll look at it a little differently than the others. I think that supporting this narrative will lead to some kind of reduction in the imagination and creativity of our population, our society, which seems extremely dangerous to me, because I think it is one of the basic prerequisites for a healthy development of any society. So I would like to take my imagination and creativity into account, and from the point of view of this misinformation, I would like to mention here the issues of disinformation that are found on social networks. And I'm going to ask who's really spreading these monstrous thoughts and ideas, who's producing them, and who's expecting our seniors or other people, other citizens who may not have enough education and enough insight, I'd say they're gonna get caught up in that information? And then it's abused to say, look, we have misinformation here, we have to fight it. So I'd like to point that out, so it's not a little head-to-head, that those who want to limit freedom of speech end up not spreading the misinformation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u123	Thank you and with priority rights, President Babiš. In the meantime, I'll read one more apology. Mr Miroslav Zborovský, Member, from 11.30 to 13.00 for work reasons and I cancel my apologies to Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Member. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u124	So, fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen, if you are watching the House and you feel that there is talk of democracy and independence, then I would like to lead you out of error. She's a profession of politicians, to speak beautifully, and that citizens feel like they're actually fighting for democracy and independence. Well, what's going on here? It's a simple thing. The point is for Director Dvořák to remain in office. Why? Well, because Mr. Director Dvořák simply accepts that Czech Television is not independent. It's not. Czech TV, we all pay TV fees, I can get to that, it's not independent. Czech television is not transparent. Czech TV is not controlled by the SAO. We don't really know anything about Czech TV. And why is Mr. Dvořák a good five-calice director? Well, because Czech TV and some of those shows are part of a five-wheeler. And Czech Television won the five-police election, House elections 2021, and, of course, now won the presidential election in a significant way. The director is such a director that he doesn't mind the editors breaking the code of ethics there. He's called the Tálibán, the shows. Reporters, that's where we saw Mr. Wollner, who was pissing on those ladies, even one editor, and the other. Well, he ended up with the biggest journalistic cesspool of Forum 24, that's probably the TOP 09 I've identified. And these shows, the Taliban, and part of the Taliban, there's an Interview. We saw Patrik Nacher being there, how's the debate going? And the other shows, of course, are Reporters, 168 hours, Newsroom, Interview and Questions from Václav Moravka. Those are all the shows they manipulate. They don't censor, they invite people who look like they're independent. Now there's a world economist who just forgot to tell us that the Minister of Education is paying her as a counselor. Or now an independent political scientist has become Mr. President's advisor. Or the former banker who criticized us under our government became Mr. Prime Minister's advisor. That's where they're defiling independents. Well, they're not independent because someone's paying them. And we need to find out who's paying them. All honour - Events at 7:00 p.m. Events, comments, that's where it's part of the Taliban. And hopefully the psychopath who claims to be director of Czech Television will not become director. So here, my colleagues are asking why the deal? Well, that's easy. They need to keep Mr. Dvořák. Well, why is there a difference between being called off and being called off? Well, because if they keep him there and the law passes, then he's gonna appeal those thirds. So that's it. You have beautiful speeches here, and I'm telling you this hard. What evidence do I have? None, but backstage's the way it is. And we know Mr. Dvořák well. We behaved, always followed us, DPH, this. And why didn't Mr. Dvořák intervene when Mr. Wollner was harassing those ladies? Why doesn't anyone follow the code of ethics? I'll read you a letter here in a minute, which I sent to Mr Moravc in October 2020. And on that occasion, I'd like to challenge him not to say that Babiš isn't there anymore, because Babiš will never come. And the shadow Prime Minister of the ANO movement is Mr. Havlíček. And Mr. Fiala goes there all alone and nobody opposes him. Well, Mr. Fiala hasn't spoken to us in four days. He doesn't need to talk to us. So that's it, folks. I made a video of the debate before the House elections 2017. Let's see how Moravec dehonested me, insulted me. The next one was 2021. That was incredible. We learned yesterday that an oligarch has been sponsoring and organising President Pavel since 2020. Since 2020. And now his goal is to create a new left. ČSSD and so on. Well, that's interesting. That's interesting. Mr. Oligarch also owns an eXtra. I have to appreciate he's applying. Most people do it by not applying for it and doing it across the board. But that's a different subject. So the debate before the Houses of Elections 2017. 2021. The editor, who, of course, had been on President Pavel's team for a long time, had a clear conflict of interest, so she told me in the main debate on Czech Television that I was in 2009, when I was supposed to know that I was going into politics when I bought the house in France, and it's not a lock, so it's absolutely incredible. [[11.30 hours]] So she had the main debate, and she was already a part of it, and she knew she was working for Mr. Pavel, 2021. Communal elections 2022, Mr. Butcher. Well, he made a total jerk out of us because he said the debate was about the municipal elections, and we talked for 20 minutes about the presidential campaign, and instead of just calling Mr. Fiala fair and not knowing who was Pirstan and me and Mr. Okamura, there were, of course, five against us. And the absolute summit was the first round - the debate of Czech Television, the presidential election. A total violation of the code of ethics. Insults, dehonestics, I had a counter, they laughed. But that doesn't tang anyone on Czech TV, the director, because that's where the numbers are. Shamal's in charge, folks, Shamal. He's got the Taliban under him. And if anybody thinks someone's gonna change that, then I'm curious. So what's going on? Once again, the five-calice that Czech Television won the 2021 election and now won the presidential election is about keeping Mr. Dvořák, and that's where the numbers come from. The second presidential debate, where Mr. Řezníček actually spoke for the next president. War, speculation, that's interesting, this Enge keeps talking about war, hopefully he won't talk anymore, I don't know if he's been cleaned up in the bunker or not, he's talking about rockets flying around. Total manipulation throughout the debate. And of course it's mainly about, there's no censorship, it's about who's coming, who's talking. And when they only invite anti-grandmothers, it's obvious. So we live in the mediaocracy. Mediocracy, that's what it is. Mediocracy. And those journalists are very sympathetic. And if Mr. here was performing on a trust fund, I'd recommend that he see what Mrs. Zlámalová said at CNN Prima News. All Prague editors cheer for Pavel, or are anti-Babish, including iDNES, please, so it is. We need to see how we're doing here. So there's some rumors that we don't want to politicize. Well, it's a long time ago politicized. It's been politicized a long time ago. And you know it. For example, Czech TV didn't even have the decency to broadcast my press conference after the lost presidential election, and then it was on the record because it won their candidate, but that's okay, of course. So no independence. No independence, it's just the concrete of the director, who is - and of course the shows are purely pro-government. Purely pro-government. Yes? And of course, I was always fascinated when the head of the Agrofert Foundation happened to be on TV, giving away a $3 million machine to Thomayerka, so there was never Agrofert, always just a foundation. Or when I was prosecuted for purpose, it was always: the criminally prosecuted Babiš. Then compare it with the others. How they pick photos, who they pick, who they're talking to. I mean, it's beating to the eye. And, of course, they've been doing it for ten years. StB, when they said that I won the trial three times and that the Constitutional Court didn't deal with the substance at all, but only by chance ten days before the election, someone canceled ten years' practice. Never. So the stork's nest, always the yellow belt and so on. So all you have to do is look at it and we know what's going on. An example of all this is my letter to Mr Moravc from October 2020. Mr. Kvapil, thank you very much for your invitation. Allow me to inform you, however, that I do not accept your invitation with thanks and that at the same time I have definitely decided not to come to your show in the future. And Mr Moravec knows it well. I never published the letter. I'm reading it now because it really bothers me when someone keeps saying that Babiš is afraid of the Fiala. The Prime Minister hasn't been here for four days, he hasn't once answered us why he doesn't want to hit inflation, why he wants to rob pensioners, why he won't clearly tell us how much money went to Ukraine, why he didn't even set up the euro from the EU, why the Presidency and a million other questions failed. A million. So I made it very clear here. So one more time. The next time the Prime Minister gets there, we'll be happy to have the Czech Television, Mr Moravec, invite Karel Havlíček or Alenka Schillerová. Karel Havlíček is our shadow prime minister. So that's what I said. I'm on it. Please believe me that my decision is not linked to the absurd speculation of moderator Václav Moravec, that I am concerned about my opponents. His question to President Ivan Bartoš from broadcast 6. 9. 2022 "Why is the Prime Minister afraid of you, Prime Minister?" - Well, Babiš isn't afraid of anyone, believe me - she's absolutely smiling, I had a public debate with the President a few weeks later in three election debates live in front of the cameras, as you know, also on Czech television. I did not come to the Václav Moravec Questions program and I will not come to the future for any other reason. This is the systematic personal attacks of the moderator of Václav Moravec on my person and on the ministers nominated by the ANO movement, which are repeated on this programme almost every Sunday, and in my view it can be clearly concluded that the programme's moderator is not impartial, as the Czech Television Code states in its article. May 6th. So look at Twitter now, which editors are impartial as they express themselves. Moderators of the Czech Television discussion programmes are obliged to maintain impartiality. The viewer should not be able to see their position on the issue or the debater from their appearance on the show. Do we remember one of the Event editors, comments about how he threw the paper at his colleague Nacher? Remember? How did he yell at him? What are they doing there, in Events, comments? This is part of the Taliban. I would like to mention just a few examples selected in the last few years, although I am aware that written words cannot exactly describe the hostile atmosphere that an experienced moderator in his study can produce during the debate. As early as 2015, Václav Moravec lied to me as an autocratic leader who makes very good use of his media, political, and entrepreneurial influence. Oh, yeah. That's why somebody was talking about the statistics, how the individual media is expressing themselves. And the ones in that trust fund are absolutely independent. Whoever reads them knows that. And I remember Lidové noviny publishing a week before the president's election, why Babiš isn't supposed to be president, for example, I'm thinking now. So he claimed, he does business for individual political parties, especially for one of the richest men in this country. In recent years, the attacks have escalated. The host doesn't just talk about me anymore, but he's attacking our entire government. This March, he was talking about a total failing government at a time when we encountered a new type of virus, and they reacted as the only ones from the fastest in the world - that was in 2020 - but no one ever acknowledged it. I share my personal opinion on social media like everyone else, so watch this. I will not mention everything that he or his team have written on Facebook or Twitter over the last few years, I chose only a tweet from 3 September, in which Mr Moravec formulated his personal opinion on our entire government as follows: We are experimental rabbits of political populism, which spread the remains of the government and expert decision-making. [[11.40 hours]] Populism, folks. That's every day. That's what the Prime Minister's talking about. Everyone's talking about populism. And I've already explained that populism is for people. Yes. I'm a populist. I'm applying. Then let somebody read it in Wikipedia who's a populist. What's a populist? That our government did everything for people? And that our movement continues to do so and we continue to do so? Of course. So it's all just nonsense. So what's he saying? We are experimental rabbits of political populism, which has broken down the remains of government and expert decision-making. Oh, well, you know. I wondered how to respond to such behavior of the host of a very monitored show, how to defend myself, and finally decided that I had no choice but to stop going on such a show. This will save us time and energy associated with finding free terms and straining people, whether or not the Prime Minister arrives, and protect them from misleading pilgrimage, in which the ČT on the main channel informs its viewers for several days that you invited me to your show without adding very substantial information that I never confirmed the invitation. That was classic. He always called it in, and I didn't confirm it, and then at the last minute, he left a chair. At the same time, with this decision, I'm going to prevent the host from blackmailing me with an empty chair with a name, and I'm writing it here every time for whatever reason I don't accept his invitation, because it's an obligation. They tell us: you must, because we, Czech Television, we journalists here decide who will succeed in this country, who will be in the government, who will be president. After all, Klaus said: The media will choose your president, and you will choose them because your brains are being brainwashed, dear fellow citizens. So I think it's undignified for both of us, and I'm still writing to Mr Moravc, and we don't need it either him or me or the viewers of great channels - well, that's too much - ČT1 and ČT24 - here I write great channels. I am convinced that many viewers will understand my decision, and some will even welcome it. I've received so many letters, e-mails, and text messages, where I've been invited to do this, over the last few years, it would've taken me at least an election to calculate. I am glad that I will give these people, who have written and expressed their support, a little joy, and perhaps someone greater. Sincerely and with the wishes of as many viewers as possible. By the way, when I was doing hey, guys, I had even more ratings than his show. I wrote this in 2020, where I finally said, but Mr Moravec still says I have an invitation there. I don't. So please invite the deputy to finally invite the Prime Minister, who has so many shows - he has so many shows on CNN he's still telling on CNN how it all works out here, then he's doing it on Czech TV. But he didn't say anything here. Nobody answered anything. So that's my reaction to Mr Moravec. Dear fellow citizens, if the Prime Minister is there again and no one is there, that means that the YES movement has not been invited. But I'm sure Babiš will never be there again. I'm gonna go back to my basics again. Five-calibers are talking about independence, nonsense, just like they told us about pensions. Now they're doing a huge blackmail on senators in the Senate about the pensions. Great Senator Canov, he says it hard. I wonder how the Senate will approve under threat. But it's very obvious. As far as overall, what's going on here is concrete because the five-calice isn't sure if he's gonna keep the principal there. So no independence. There is no independence on Czech TV. And I don't want to talk about Czech Radio. There's a Taliban there, too. It's called Radio. It's similar. We pay seven billion, we don't know where the money ends, no one checks. And for the Minister, I would like to show you the article: France cancels licence fees, we want to increase purchasing power. The French Senate - that's from 3. 8. 2022 - The French Senate joined the lower chamber of parliament and voted to abolish the television and radio charges promised by President Emmanuel Macron in the election campaign. France. Here's another article - January 17, 2022. The British government wants to freeze the BBC licence fees for two years, considering abolishing them. And the Slovák have a state budget for it. I'm sure it's not monochrome. And at least I think she'd be five-caliber, if she's okay with it, that we don't know anything about Czech TV, where the 7 billion goes, that no one's checking it out, then we should make an effort. I don't understand why it's not read in this law somewhere. I, here in September 2022, tabled a bill to abolish radio and television charges for old-age and disabled pensioners and disabled people and children, which means students. Overall, they are about 900,000 people and would save 2,000 a year. Yes, it's enough for those retired people now that you're taking away $7,000 this year. The fees are 45 CZK radio and 135 CZK household. The minister said he didn't want it. I think it would be appropriate if the pensioners lost their pensions. You've been here four days and three nights, and you haven't answered our question once. Mr. Jurečka saves - now I don't know what he's saving - in New York, maybe he went to the MD, or I don't know what he's doing there instead of going to the Labor Office and making sure that benefits are paid for people who don't even have rent. He has the most problematic resort, the worst resort. The first minister in the history of this country, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who fights the elderly who fights the socially weaker. So he's telling us that he's got two lines, 600 billion. Then let Mr. Stanjura show it. But a complete one. Drainage, social security, income, everything. Well, you can't have it. So it's all nonsense. I'd like to go back to Czech TV. There's already been one statistic, too bad that my colleague, and maybe she could read it again, this is actually the analysis of Media Tenor. [[shows]] That's what the Czech Television ordered here. Analysis of the Czech Television pre-election broadcast 3. 9th to 8th October 2021 - news, discussion programmes, publicity, pre-election formats. This was approved by the Czech Television Council. Yes? So hopefully no one can deny it and deny my claims that I made here. Just for a very short time. Here's the statistics. Political parties in Events. Czech Television in its main news session The events in the month before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and I may have overthought that the events, broadcast about the movement YES 62 negative messages. ODS, TOP 09 and STAN one. Logically, because they're part of a five-wheeler. Although the YES movement was a major government force at the time, this uncritical imbalance is striking, it is written in the analysis. Now that I see the law on the regulation of public television and its newsletters, I have an idea why. Then: Political parties in Events - intensity. Czech Television presented the YES movement mostly negatively in its main news session The events in the month before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. Negative! They always did, by the way... When the regional elections were over, there was nothing, no regions. He was just a covid. Czech TV always found what it needed, the theme. ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 presented positive references. That is not what I say, but an analysis of Media Tenor created for Czech Television for concessionaire money and subsequently approved by the Czech Council. [[11.50 hours]] Another analysis - political parties, quoted sources in Events: Czech Television in its main news session The events in the month before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies aired 62 negative reports on the YES movement. Authors - 15 percent of them were journalists of the Czech Republic. Journalists did not tell ČT the only negative information about the coalition of the association. Not a single one. On the contrary, 11 percent of the ČT editors' announcements about the coalition of the SPOLU were positive, negative messages from the mouth of the journalist of Czech Television about the coalition of SPOLU in the election week did not exist according to the analysis, because SPOLU said that when it was in the government, everything would be fantastic. That's why we have the third highest inflation. So much Czech TV. I think the Minister here should be very clear. Don't bullshit people. And, guys, don't get brainwashed, okay? Of course, they made me evil in ten years because I don't have the coalition potential. Sobotka found out when he told me we had Kapsch and that they could do business in an air ambulance. No, I don't have the potential. I started the anti-corruption movement. Anti-corruption movement. And now the two biggest corrupters are performing in the media. One who founded ODS B, it's called TOP 09, and the other - the worst and most corrupt prime minister in the history of this country. They go in there and give us a sense of how to save money. Unbelievable. Really. Mediocracy, folks. And all this is about five-wheelers and this new totalitarianism, because it's a new totalitarianism, she has concreted the Czech TV to brainwash you! I just happened to meet a historian, so I actually thought that we were celebrating here thirty years since the creation of the independent Czech Republic and we have - how many already? - it'll be 34 years from the revolution soon. So I figured no one here actually wrote it the way it was. Those born in November 1989 are 33 now, aren't they? Okay, do I count? They'll be thirty-four. And no one ever wrote down what was here, how it was, who chose who, how it was with the coupon, how they shredded 25,000 bundles of aesthebians, how it was done... Nobody wrote that. I don't know why. Czech TV broadcast? The young generation doesn't know what happened here after the revolution in 34 years. They don't know anything, they've forgotten everything, or they've never even been told. Never. But the Czech Television isn't broadcasting it, because of course it wouldn't have worked out well for some of the parties that are here with the government. So media, mediaocracy. And unfortunately, unfortunately, it is a divided society. That's the credit of the media, of course. So it's all about the five-wheel drive, part of the new totalitarianism, protecting the director of the Czech Television, who's the director there for nothing, because the Taliban are doing what they want. So I'd be done with that. And it would be good for us to just say things the way they are here, even though I know it's not appropriate, and for that I'm sorry and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u125	Thank you. I had Mr. Baxa's priority right here, but I don't know if he's traded it for the actual one before. [[The Minister is not interested.]] So it doesn't, yes. Mr Babka is invoking the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u126	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I will respond to the previous speech by the Minister of Culture, because he mentioned one very interesting thing in his speech. He was here to comment on thevora, which is now reduced by this law, or changed to 10 out of 18. Minister, you're in the answer, I think you responded to your colleague Juchelka, said why you chose this possibility that the new CEO would vote 10 out of 18, so you mentioned here that - and now I quote you: "It is adequate for this situation." What kind of situation, Minister? For the fact that the law will come into force and the new council will vote not in two thirds, but in 10 out of 18, by the majority? You mean this situation that's adequate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u127	Thank you. In fact, Minister Baxa is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u128	Thanks for the word. I had in mind, Mr Babka, through the Vice-President, the general choice of the CEO of Czech Television. And let me just remind you that, according to the old and the new law, 10 votes are needed, there will be no change here. But I would only use this factual comment - and it really is just a rhetorical question, because I have no right to call on my colleagues to answer my questions, I am here to be asked and answered as a petitioner and a member of the government. So I would like to ask my colleague Babka, Mr Juchelka, Mr Nacher, or some others to give us their impressions of your President Babiš's speech. Actually, my colleagues, I was wondering if you and President Babiš shared this view of Czech television. And I think it wouldn't be in vain for us to actually frame the other debate that we're having here on this subject, because you obviously share the President's narrative that the five-wheelers are trying to control the advice of the television and the choice of the CEO. But I wonder if you share President Babiš's view of the quality of Czech television, if you believe that this public media is the Taliban, that it is a purpose-driven political tool for attacking your movements? Do you feel that the dealers are paying Czech TV to attack the political opposition completely targeted? If you share what I have derived from President Babiš's speech that Czech Television is not an independent public media under the law, but that it is a political instrument in the hands of the current government coalition? I consider it a very unprecedented interpretation of Mr. Babiš. It's not unusual, but I'm having this debate with you, not with him, so I'd like to hear your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u129	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Ondřej Babka, then President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u130	Thank you for the floor. I'll deliver on the kvor. We have an amendment in the system under the letter C by colleague Aleš Juchelka, who is now leaving the two-thirds duty to choose both the Director-General and the Director-General's appeal. And what I think is perfectly logical is why this is so right. Because an increase in the call for decision on the choice or withdrawal of the Director-General from the simple majority to at least 6 votes at the time in the Czech Radio Council was introduced in 2002. This is because already in 2001 this two-thirds condition was introduced in the amendment to the Czech Television Act, so per analogiam became compatible in order for the two amendments to be compatible, which means that both the Czech Radio Act and the Czech Television were chosen by the CEOs in a similar way, i.e. by two thirds. These amendments strengthened the competence of the councils and appointments and appeals of the Directors-General of Czech Radio and Czech Television were still considered the most binding decision-making of the councils and the most important tool for applying its influence as a representative of the public to the Czech Television and Czech Radio. And I just can't sleep, why are you giving away the two-thirds of the law? Simply and simply, you mentioned here that the situation is adequate. The appropriate situation is because it is simply convenient for you at the moment when the law comes into force that only 10 councillors will elect the new CEO. And I bet if this law comes into force, the CEO will be elected exactly 10 votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u131	Thank you. And another of the entries with the facts is President Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the government's five-calice wants power over the Czech TV. It is another attack on democracy and pluralism. Today, the government's five koalice ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN plan to approve in the House the law on the amendment of the law on Czech Television and Czech Radio. With this law, the government coalition wants to change the way in which public media control councils are elected so that only the Senate will vote for a third of them in the future, while now the House elects them, which is the only representative picture of public opinion given the size of citizens' electoral participation. The point is that Petr Fiala's government from the ODS wants to complete the political domination and occupation of the control boards of public media, thereby ensuring a dominant influence on the broadcasts of Czech Television and Czech Radio, especially in the field of news and current publicity, because only over 20 percent of citizens believe in the Fialův government according to current surveys. The five-calice therefore takes steps to control these media so that only pro-government and pro-EU views are broadcast here, so that only those who hold consent are dominantally invited to these media, while limiting the presentation of opposition views. This is how the Fialův Coalition wants to influence elections. This is totally unacceptable to the SPD. The Senate has minimal support and trust of citizens, and individual senators represent only a total minority of the public. Similarly, there is an unacceptable proposed restriction on the range of subjects that can be proposed by members of media councils, one organisation that has existed for more than ten years. This is a discriminatory measure that clearly favours political non-profit organisations linked to the parties to the current government coalition and, on the contrary, disadvantageous SPD movement, which has existed for eight years. That is why the members of the SPD will try to prevent the adoption of this proposal, because we are promoting freedom and democracy, and indeed, those councillors should represent all the major currents of opinion in society as required by the law and not just those of government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u133	Thank you. Good noon, we took turns managing the meeting. Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Minister has called if we share the same opinion, so since no one has had the courage yet, I have the courage to tell you that I share the view. I share that view for the reason that if I, as a viewer, watch television, I have to create that view myself, not that the host will ask submissive questions and actually de facto answer them. And if you don't answer as he wants you to answer, he's constantly pushing you into the answer he wants to hear. So that's wrong. That's just not how we're supposed to talk. I don't know, I see colleagues sitting here, hoping they'll react too, in any case, that's my personal opinion, and not just mine, but also my surroundings. When I'm sitting in front of the TV, I'm supposed to make up my own mind, not that someone's bringing it to me slowly and pushing into my head what I don't want to hear. I want to make my own opinions. And that's what I'm saying, that's the same debate about what's and what's not misinformation. Because it's not disinformation to me, but you're going to evaluate it as misinformation, and time will show that it wasn't misinformation, it was just a metaphor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u135	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mr Nacher, and Mrs Balaštíková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u136	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that before that performance by my colleague Okamura, it wasn't a factual point to make as a... I think that did not respond to the debate. So I'd like it to be said here that I've got a fit in this one. [[unintelligible]] And now I would respond and answer to the Minister of Culture, however we are moving away from the main one, which is an amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. I'll answer the question. If he thinks it's quite okay for some of the shows on Czech TV to be as unilaterally focused as they are now according to all the different analyses, statistics and so on? I have a personal experience with this quite recently, when there was a story about the presidential campaign and the bet - and I said something there, I have a transcript, five times on the camera, and the second part of the sentence was cut out to fit the concept of the report. I filed an internal complaint, then I didn't deal with it anymore. This is what I consider to be an influence, an influence, I was just caught with a camera, and the view is already given in advance, and I'm just fulfilling the content of what I said, as I said otherwise, it didn't fit, it only took a part of the sentence without any context. I personally have these examples, Minister, that when I acted as a member of the government coalition, I understood the pressure of the host because there is someone who is responsible. When I'm there as an opposition MP, it should be replaced and it should be against that coalition MP. And my experience is that the pressure on me as an opposition MP is exactly the same as when I was a government, coalition MP. That means I'm evaluating it from my practice as a participant in TV debates. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u137	Thank you. And another with Mrs Balaštíková's application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u138	I'm just a little bit short. I was here a while ago on Czech Television, and there I wanted journalists to respect the basis of journalism that was created in the Ancients, and to convey information to us, such as the bare one, and not to give us their opinion, their assumptions. So for that, a colleague made me a terrible commercial because he called me Hitler. I really have to laugh. I didn't really want anything else, and I don't want anything else from Czech TV to provide us with bare, dry information, to treat everyone decently. [[than]] I don't want anyone to be more impressed - and that's all. That's all. And if you have the same intentions, I don't see why we shouldn't talk about it. And for that, the journalists were angry. Why were they angry when I didn't want anything else like the bare truth? [[than]] 'Cause maybe I hit black? And did I point my finger at what they're not doing right? For that, they were so angry that they made me and washed me on social media and their websites. And I didn't want anything else to follow the five rules of classic journalism. [[than]] And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u139	I also thank you for keeping time. I am not seeing anyone else with a factual remark, so we are going back to the general debate and it is Mr Foldyna's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u140	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is out of bounds, it's stormy and basically, what can be traced from it? The fierceness with which the government coalition wants to push through this novel, and basically when a bird is trapped, they sing nicely to it. That's what you could call some discussion posts to explain why the novel contains this or that. When we look at § 4 para. 1, increasing the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18, the explanation given by colleagues is very debatable. In addition to increasing the financial costs of the operation of the Czech Television Council, it is not clear how this should change and improve the work of Czech Television. When we look at § 4 on par. 2 - The Chamber of Deputies and the Senate shall elect members of the Board from the candidates proposed by legal persons who have been in existence for at least 10 years at the time of the proposal, representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests. Well, that's so noble. It's very noble. Only that question, there is no reason to believe that a legal person aged ten years old represents those cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests better or more than a legal person who is only eight years old or seven years old or five years old. And that is very dubious and it is an effort to transfer power and monopoly of power into the hands of professional political non-profits like Man in distress and similar. [[12.10 hours]] This is an attempt by the government coalition to take decisions on public matters - public television is a public matter - and to hand it over to any unelected professional political activists, because they are primarily found in these forged nonprofit organizations such as the Man in Need. Democracy in the Czech Republic gets into distress and you all feel it. We here, of course, when we criticize Czech TV, let's say what we criticize most. We are criticizing not the editorial of culture and so on, we are more or less criticizing the news of Czech Television, which is more public and purposeful. But of course, the question is, how does everyone feel about it? We feel that way, you feel that way again. I guess we all have that right. It's very complicated that way. Here you want to hand over some of the powers or powers to vote for the Senate council members. There is no reason to believe that the fact that the Czech Television Council, which will be elected by the Senate, should somehow improve the activities of the Czech Television Council. It's very dubious. The Senate was not set up to vote for the Czech Television Council. The Senate is such a control mechanism. Until now, Parliament has more voter participation, or the Senate, although it is a control mechanism, so participation in the Senate elections is 10, 12, 14 percent, which means relatives of the senator plus several villages around, and yet the electoral portfolio in Parliament is somewhat larger. So the experience here from the past isn't negative. You just want to ensure more influence because you perceive it, and we also see that you have more support for your candidates in the Senate. If we look at the fact that paragraph 3 of this paragraph 4 was completely released, that means what was released? The Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Council fails to comply with its obligations under this law or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve the annual activity report twice in a row and so on. So let's see what this might actually mean or might mean. The result will be that if the Czech Television Council does not properly fulfil its legal obligations, which means, for example, it will not elect the Director-General of Czech Television and it will remain without proper management, refuses to deal with the Czech Television budget, does not control the financial management of Czech Television, does not monitor the fulfilment of the requirements of European Union financial relations transparency on Czech Television, refuses to vote on the status of Czech Television. That's what I'm still talking about about the responsibilities of the council that are being released by the fact that paragraph 3 is essentially being cut off. He refuses to vote on the Director-General's proposals to set up or cancel television studies, refuses to deal with citizens' complaints, does not supervise the performance of public service tasks, does not vote on the approval of the long-term programme, does not determine the Director-General's salary and so on - so what are we going to do? In fact, she doesn't have to do anything by releasing that paragraph, and we can't essentially call her off because she's going to be called off one by one, as we will or won't like it. I believe that this does not improve the activities of Czech Television. These adjustments are quite purposeful. It's looking a little bit like straw off a shoe. You know, colleagues and colleagues, there's a big dividing line here. I've been here since 2010 and the dividing line is more intense. It's still growing. Members of the opposition and the government coalition are here. There is no compromise, there is no compromise. We're attacking each other, and the thing is disappearing. And I believe that we have no reason to believe in the good or good intentions of the new laws that you make because, in fact, the government's own programming statement and the existing activities of the existing government are completely different. You guys never said you were gonna cut the valorization. You guys never told people you were gonna make a law that would change your retirement for 68 years. You guys have just completely re-evaluated your programming statement in a completely different way. The Bible says that Satan disguises himself as an angel of light. You know, that's what you might call your activity. You guys were just singing nicely to that bird before you grabbed it. And now that you've picked him up, you've got a limited time to hold the cage nicely and change the terms. What's this all about? In fact, we are here to a certain extent fighting for freedom and democracy, which you, with your steps, are very sophisticatedly sharpening. You want to defend freedom and democracy when there is none. We've all been there. The words you cover yourself with... it's too much. It's too much. And look, even the public has somehow lost its trust. When you look at the discussion around Czech Television on networks, it is no longer so clear that Czech Television is the most monitored, especially the news editor. Very dubious are the steps and the shows. And we weren't even talking about the $6 billion deal. That's a great thing too. I'm sure we could discuss that. I believe that the amendment is very purposeful and has the task and purpose of giving more power to the government coalition. The verva with which you advocate it, the public vote that preceded the mutual display of tickets, who vote as well as within the coalition, we feel that there are a whole number of people who are still really thinking and really going among people, and they perceive that it is about freedom and that there are still forces within the group that perceive that in 1989 we have won democracy and freedom and that we have to protect it to some extent more and more. I therefore believe that this proposal of your amendment is totally unacceptable to us, and as Tomio Okamura here has read in his remark, and I agree with you, it was not a comment on the speeches of previous colleagues, but it is an opinion, and I will translate it. You simply want to take even greater power over the Czech TV, which at this time does not do you any good, on the contrary, we all watch it and see it, Czech television in its war news is probably the television that shows people where it is and where it is not true in a war conflict. The conflict is not ours and we know it well, but when you watch it in the Czech Television news, it looks like we're already up to our ears in the war. We, as the SPD, will not give a single vote to approve this amendment. And that was basically the whole content of what I wanted to say here in my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u141	Thank you, too, and others for the general debate is signed up by Mr Novák. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u142	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this continuation of today's extraordinary meeting to the point, the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act is indeed another sad memento of this coalition. In fact, we are here today to witness how to get back to strength if you succeed - and how else in this parliamentary term? - bends five-calice laws, and this time about Czech Television and Czech Radio. And just the way it suits you in five pieces. [[12.20 hours]] And believe that if one of the citizens of the Czech Republic is watching today's negotiations at all, it is witnessing the moment that the public service media is supposed to throw even more into the arms of the coalition, which is actually a free translation of the theory that the coalition is building, namely that the media will be less dependent on politicians. Oh, yeah. I will probably repeat myself as part of the negotiations on this proposal, but does the five-wheeler realize that the headless interference with legal standards will not only bring chaos, but will it also turn against you in the next parliamentary term and you will not like it? Ladies and gentlemen, the election of members of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Councils has always been a charge of conspiracy, conspiracy and efforts to dominate public space. That's just the way it is. Let's face it objectively that this wave began to gain strength in two moments, first of all, at the time when the ANO movement entered the Chamber of Deputies and second of all, when the previous selanka ended, when the ODS and ČSSD, with the active contribution of the KSČM, separated the influence on the functioning of these institutions and managed who would sit in their ranks. I don't know how it was said at the time, whether the radio is blue and television is orange or vice versa, but some of you must remember it. And so at that time, we could see how a number of exponents of the appointed parties passed through both public control bodies. Another time player showed up to the senát. Both today's laws simply did not count on the senators to take part in the creation of both councils, and the Senate simply longed for this trial as it aged and realized its identity. The magic of the unwanted occurred at the moment when the senators realized that they could formulate such a request first, but they were referring to the former executive and the Chamber of Deputies during the last parliamentary term. They don't have that obstacle anymore. Because the opportunity came after the last election, and it's back here. Today the coalition is dominated by both chambers of Parliament, fortunately not by the constitutional majority for me. So you need to take advantage of this influence by kicking over everything's head. Make sure they serve us until the next election. Let's reminisce about the old, still valid system, which will probably end after today's coalition meeting, and the Senate, you know, it's gonna vote smoothly, it's gonna be for him. We can put some hope into the presidential veto, but I don't expect the newly elected president to want to change the rules to the structures that supported him and to the media that were rooting for him. Back to the old system. If he were to pay, it would vote in plenary - and I will remind those of you who remember something - that the rule still applies that there has always been a vote by individual Members and that it was not certain whether those administrative candidates who had chosen the electoral committee for the vote will also go through this vote. However, until you have covered up your secret choice here to be able to check on your MPs, the five-wheelers. Imagine that Members had their head in secret choice, voting according to their consciousness and conscience, just as their pledge to Parliament sounds. Now it's over. The new model will ensure that the coalition, at least until the end of this parliamentary term or the nearest Senate elections, always delivers the right majority to public media. And when that happens, we can go back to the question of censorship. After all, I wonder which of the public councils will be attended by former advisor to Prime Minister Klíma. I would have guessed the TV, but I don't think the radio one's any good either, do you? Let's talk about the changes. Firstly, an increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council. The Czech Television Council is supposed to have 18 new members according to the proposal. Two-thirds will be chosen by Members, one-third by Senators. All current councillors elected under the current law will gradually run their current mandates. For example, the current President of the Czech Television Council, Karel Novák, will be meeting in the audit body by June 2028. The House elected him in June 2022 and his mandate lasts six years. Your explanatory statement to the law explains that, in order to be on the Czech Television Council as quickly as possible members elected by the Senate - as quickly as possible, the Senate can no longer wait - lay down transitional provisions that it will elect the members of the Senate to the three functions of the members of the Board who will be re-established on the date of entry into force of the new legislation, within the prescribed time limit. The members will then continue to vote for the Senate. In addition to the three new ones, which will be released first after the new legislation becomes effective, the Senate shall elect its representative. The costs of the remuneration of three new councillors will come from the budget of Czech Television, i.e. from the budget of those who today have to pay by law fees, as well as in the case of all existing members. And why do I mention that? I'll explain. The sense is simple - to add your senate candidates to the board as quickly as possible, to get the vote leverage to pre-elected board leadership, if the current Chairman Novák is not after the will of the coalition, then to choose the right one, then also to elect the right CEO. Yeah, and as you've heard, they'll pay everything from their budget. At least with transitional measures, I would like to see some participation, for example, by the Ministry of Culture, to help them, by the Czech Television, which is not enough and keeps saying that it needs more. Well, as I know five-calice politicians, they'd rather raise the concession fees, no matter how people pay it - how they care about people, they showed us last week - than to think about how to save somewhere. Second, conditions for candidacy. Proposals for future members of the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council may be sent to the House and the Senate by public institutions, interest organisations, associations, churches, schools and other legal entities. However, only such a proposal will be valid, which will be submitted by an organisation which has existed for at least ten years. In this way, the government wants to prevent purposeful associations from being formed, the sole purpose of which is to propose a member of the media board. It's actually simple, because I can turn it around, too, because the purpose-based associations that we've had here for more than ten years are going to nominate your right candidates, and no one else is going to let them and nobody else into the business. This change is not smiling, it's stunning. Thirdly, the end of collective appeal. Politicians lose the power to withdraw the entire Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council. Now the House can do this if it does not approve the annual reports on the functioning of the public media twice in a row. The amendment cuts this possibility completely; the failure to approve annual reports will not be a reason to punish the entire supervisory body acting in the congregation. [[12.30 hours]] The House will be able to withdraw only the councillors she has chosen, and the same will apply in the case of the Senate. Can you even imagine? So, if necessary, the councilmen will be dismissed individually on behalf of, and beware, newly in chambers. Well, that's terrible. I am really looking forward to seeing the House or Senate discover the particular responsibility of a particular councilman. And again - is there no advice in the congregation? Or is it the whip on the disobedient councilman that anyone who doesn't vote against the so-called administrative decisions of the five-calition hall will be dismissed? What is it, then? It kind of smells like the last century and the period of non-freedom, 'cause that's really how the councilmen actually, they actually won't even have the responsibility. They're actually gonna go in there with it, they're gonna go in there and do some work. Well, I think they're definitely gonna do the job at 120 percent, 'cause you're gonna pick the right ones. That is why I expect all the new 18 board members, including the reporters, to speak for the new director at the same time, and you will applaud them. Fourthly, the senators will read the annual reports. The Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council will produce two annual reports each year, one on activities, the other on management. The novelty, however, will be that these documents will not only be discussed by the House, but will also be discussed by the Senate. An interesting detail is that politicians have repeatedly considered, and even today we have heard about the combination of both annual reports into a single document. But we'll see. So far, it seems that this change will not happen and the news will continue to be two. By the end of March, therefore, Parliament will receive a report on how television or radio met the requirements of the law, and by the end of August it will receive an overview of the management for the previous year. That's goulash! Real stew. If there were annual reports in the House now four years old, which is only when it's transferred to the Senate? It'll be another, another completely unnecessary activity. Totally useless. Fifth - 12 votes must be agreed on by the director. With an increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council, the conditions for the election or withdrawal of the Director-General will also be tightened. This is the case so far, unless one of the amendments to this amendment is approved in the vote. In both cases, at least two thirds of the total number of councillors will have to agree, i.e. at least 12 members of the 18. The government originally intended that a simple majority of votes would suffice. But we will see if coalition MPs will support or support an amendment that requires a two-thirds consensus. It is therefore unclear whether and how this request will be reflected in the forthcoming election of the Director-General, which should take place on 7 June this year. The Czech Television Council is currently incomplete, has only 14 members, one missing. If the law comes into force sometime during the spring, it will intervene in the running competition. Parliament would therefore have to quickly select and elect new members of the Czech Television Council for vacant posts. And that's crucial nonsense. Sixth, no so-called interim director. In the current wording of the Czech Radio Act, some similar things are modified differently than in the case of Czech Television. For example, when the CEO ends up in office and a new one is not yet selected, the Czech Television is managed by an authorised representative. In the case of Czech Radio, however, the law specifically required the Council of Czech Radio to elect an interim director. The amendment removes this difference, so even in the Czech Radio, only the authorised representative will suffice if necessary. Here we know that such a situation in this parliamentary term will not occur, but that there will always be the necessary number of those who are afraid, of course, who will not want to be called off under the new rules. Seventh - the abolition of the two-year cycle of the councilman's replacement. On the basis of the amendment of the ANO movement, a formal amendment could be introduced to the government amendment, which will cancel the rotation of a third of the councillors every two years. The rule has really become obsolete, and in practice, the councilman changes according to who resigns or is dismissed from office. The mandate will always take six years, it will not be short for the remaining period until the mandate of the resigning councilman. I believe that the coalition will support this proposal. Eight, renaming the election committee. The last adjustment is rather smiling. We will no longer have an election committee in the House, but a committee on media matters. After all, that is what Members have been trying to do for quite a long time, but it is only now that the plan will come to an end. The Committee is historically called electoral because it originally only chose candidates for media councils. It is now in practice dealing with media laws, annual reports and assessing the activities of the television and radio council. Then why not? Make sure you rename him. I think this is the only thing you can do no harm in making a change. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in your wanderings by privatizing public media, you forgot another such organization, which is called the Czech Press Office. I think you'll remember her today and start working on it, because this press agency has been a public institution since it was established, and therefore this carpet raid on the new rules and order of the coalition should also concern her. But it is not necessary, because now it is necessary to put the radio and television in line and choose the right CEO and create the right influence in public space, or to maintain it and strengthen it. I would expect a substantive debate on public service media in digital times, whether we still need three institutions or only one that covers everything. That means one director for three institutions, one board. No, we need three, and we're going to increase the number of councilmen to make it cheaper in quotation marks. Have you noticed that all three public media are spewing out the same media content that is actually different only by means of dissemination? Did you notice that? Although Czech television has dominant video content, news and publicity content, sound content and online content are available. Czech Radio has dominant sound content, but also news video and online content. And the CTK has dominant news content and all other media types as well as its public siblings, which are paid by our citizens. Is it not appropriate to move forward in time and respond to current media options and trends, user habits of dealers, citizens? Do you know how much money would be saved? I think you know that you've got it all figured out. Therefore, I would expect a debate on the subject of the budget, on the subject of the development of media content, on the position of public media in our country and in the world. Maybe somewhere they aren't, maybe in your so-so-sung America, they're not there. [[12.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, back to the reality of today. The five-calice decided that the opposition would compute in media terms and take public media hostages and especially their users, that is, their citizens, who still have to pay for it and, for God's sake, sometimes they have to look at it. If he gets to the vote, I can handle it myself. But I will certainly observe and control first and foremost how the coalition will implement its own rules and how it will cope with its new choice for media advice. I wish we were more laughing than crying, but most importantly... That is to call an emergency meeting here to help our citizens and our republic, not delayed politicians and interest groups. And most importantly, we'll be able to fix it after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u143	Thank you, too. Your speech raised a factual remark from the Minister. The Minister is withdrawing. So I'm going to load up the apology before we approach the next speaker. Mr Michal Kučera takes back his apology, Mr Navrátil Jiří all day for health reasons and Mr Špičák Julius from 12.30 to 14.30 for work reasons. Next up is Mr Kobza. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u144	Thank you, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, hello. There were a lot of things about Czech TV. Some good, some worse. My opinion on the quality of Czech television is that when I look at the news, I know I can rule out this option because it's definitely different. Let me also say a few sentences about this proposal by the five-calice government to change the way the members of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council are elected. Given that both of these media have become directly government propaganda channels over time, as has been said here, or channels that promote, above all, the ideology of liberal democracy, progressiveism and EU Europeanism, the issue of election of members of these councils is becoming vital in terms of the pluralism and democratism of our regime. And I think that the discussion that we are having with her is very well-founded and absolutely necessary. Minister Baxa said of his proposal that amendments to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act strengthen the independence of public media. The Senate's involvement in the elections of media councils is said to strengthen the resilience of public media to external political pressures. I must say, this is a surprising statement, because how can the already dubious independence of public media strengthen their further relatively brutal politicalization? After all, these media are no longer objective or independent, and certainly not apolitical. They inform according to clear directives, inform about carefully selected events, the others conceal as if they were not. A classic case - such as the peace demonstrations that are taking place in Europe. I'd look for nothing. It is also a way of informing, not only in the field of domestic but also foreign intelligence, where the political nature of the regime of the countries to which it is reported is whether it is the so-called Euro-Atlantic allies, or the others, superior to both factuality and objectivity, not only in terms of political events, but also other phenomena. As an example, we can mention recent devastating earthquakes that have struck Turkey and Syria, but Czech television has reported as if Syria, which we have been meaninglessly ostracizing for years, has not been affected by this disaster at all. How could this independence be strengthened by the fact that a significant part of its members will currently vote for a politically unicolored Senate, which, while having virtually zero public confidence, and where even a tenth of eligible voters do not vote for winning Senate candidates in their constituency? So what resistance to politics did the Minister talk about? Possibly resistance to objectivity and balance of public service broadcasting. This is very likely and that is probably what we see today on Czech Television with our own eyes. According to the Government's proposal, the number of members of the Czech Television Council is to increase from 15 to 18 now, i.e. by three more paid seats. These are places that are once again paid out of citizens' money, taxpayers' money, and especially at present unprecedented government debt growth and cuts on defenceless pensioners, in any way, we do not really consider it an appropriate way to expand government in any way, given the respect for citizens who have to make a lot of effort to stay in the black numbers at the end of the month and not get into the minus and debt. The situation seems to be even more difficult, that it will be even worse. Therefore, this government decision cannot certainly be held responsible when it takes place during a time of social and economic crisis, at a time of enormous and missile expensiveness, when a large proportion of citizens, according to current surveys, no longer actually come out with their monthly revenues and long ago draw on their reserves if they are no longer exhausted. This government, which smugly declared itself to be a government of budgetary responsibility, establishes other smugglers for its favorites, clients and nominees. So I'd like to ask the Minister how much it's going to cost, this change in the number of councils and where, or who they're going to take it to, when, in all cases, it's about helping people cope with the effects of expensiveness, energy growth and the like, so we learn from the government that there's no money in the budget, see the ongoing scandalous effort to counter pensioners with a retroactive reduction in valorisation, the legal valorisation of pensions. [[Minister Baxa doesn't sit at the newsstand.]] [[The Minister comes and sits in his seat.]] So what am I supposed to say to hundreds of citizens who write to me every day and ask why your government refers to the culprits of a trillion-dollar state debt as a pensioner and prefers to take money from them and doesn't touch other items because they're sacred to you? It has been said here several times: overpriced arms orders, sending Czech weapons to Ukraine, billions of donations and subsidies abroad or to private entities. You can't change that. You can't spare there? Why? So according to your proposal, 6 of the future 18 members of the Czech Television Council are to vote for the Senate next time. A full third, although voting in Senate elections, especially in their second round, is barely a sixth compared to the House elections. In addition, the same people who also vote in the single and relevant elections vote in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. It is in these elections that the distribution of views and preferences in society is shown in a fully telling way. It is logical, therefore, that the media public councils are elected by the Chamber of Deputies and only by the Parliament of Deputies. It makes no sense for the Senate to grant additional unauthorized privileges and, moreover, to seek further artificial competences for the Senate so that its supporters can defend the existence of the Senate as such in the future. The Czech Radio Council will continue to have nine members, but 3 of them will again be selected by the senators, so that radio broadcasts will also be under the independent political control of the five-wheelers, the only right liberal democrats. There is another totally undemocratic and possibly unconstitutional issue. The government proposes that candidates for both councils, television and radio, should be allowed to design for the future only organisations, institutions and associations that have existed for at least ten years. According to the explanatory report, it's supposed to disable purpose-based associations. Well, I have a feeling the plaintiffs are kind of making fun of us. Do you consider this a purposeful association such as an organization that, without crowns and public subsidies, helps socially weak, elderly, physically disabled and so on and there are, say, seven, eight, nine years? Tell it to those people in the eyes that it is some purposeful organization that after nine years of work they cannot even propose a candidate for the Czech Television Council or Czech Radio. [[12.50 hours]] There is absolutely no logical argument whatsoever. You've taken over the public media for the next six years, you're willing to do literally anything. It's good to see that you literally depend on them for life. It is the political and opinional unilateralness and imbalance of political news and publicism of the public media that keeps you in the saddle, and the main thing that also brought you to power. It's not the citizens' trust, and you know it. That is why you want to use such a one I would say to the sneaky, undemocratic and unconstitutional selection regarding the conditions for those proposing candidates to these media councils. If the Government's bill passes, it will no longer be possible to withdraw the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council as a whole, as it is so far. The House and, of course, the newly asked Senate will be able to vote only on the possible appeal of the individual councillors, but only those chosen by the Chamber. This means that only the Senate and the candidates elected by the House can be called off once again. So it's basically like a Senate position where only the Senate can cancel the Senate, so only the Senate can call off its people from the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council. That's amazing. Perhaps we will soon see that you propose to divide the media councils themselves into their lower and upper chambers. Furthermore, the petitioners do not even assume that this amendment, if passed, would become effective only after the next elections to the House or at least after the first Senate elections, after the amendment has become effective. No, five-caliber wants everything right now, right now. So the newly emerging positions in the Czech Television Council, which will occupy the Senate, as well as the other three seats that will be released in the Czech Television Council as soon as possible, will be voted by the Senate as soon as possible. At the Czech Radio Council, the places that will come to the Chamber of Deputies and which Senate are to be determined by lot again. By the way, it's not a bad idea to even vote for the Senate as such, because if we were to draw the senators, there would be enough money to save for the election, and clearly it would go much cheaper than the current situation. We would save the needed tens of millions of crowns, and the legitimacy of the winning senators in the first and second draw of the draw would not be much lower than now. At least with regard to the mandate of the citizens they have. It would certainly be a fairer way to establish a Senate than it is today. Of course, I don't mean the famous Karlovy Vary lottery drawers. I'm talking about fair draw. Its winning composition would reflect much more really the distribution of political sentiments in the public than it does now, when the second round of Senate elections is mostly attended by larger groups of candidates and their party colleagues. But let's get back to the point. It is evident that the five-wheelers are trying, as long as they hold the reins of power, to control the next years of broadcasting public media at the cost of trampling down all the conceivable democratic and pluralistic principles. He wants to place politically obedient councillors and then through them choose the obedient director of Czech Television and Czech Radio. We can assume, as has already been said, that this will again be a public acclamation option, which, when it comes to personnel issues, is one of the characteristics of totalitarian regimes. After all, as well as political control of major and most influential media. So this is the true nature and nature of our so-called liberal democracies that we have in the government. In order to maintain political pluralism and free competition between ideas and political forces, we must not allow totalitarian thinking to be put into practice. It is a fact that only the media that will be apolitical, independent, objective and will follow not the instructions that they have from the European Union and its leadership in what they can, about which they cannot, and in what direction they may inform, the media that respect that we have the right to information, only those media have their application and justification in a democratic society as a public media. But the moment we have quite extensive censorship here, when the media feeds us information that is carefully selected, which we may and must not have, some of them conceal completely, then, of course, we cannot talk about some freedom and democracy at all. The situation in our society is and will be similar to the one we had in the 1980s, which I remember very well when the media barrier, censorship and media manipulation of public opinion was at a very high level. Like the fear of accidentally getting access to information that may be undesirable. There were jammings that were jamming the radio broadcasts of angry radios, and today we're shutting down unwanted news channels on satellites. I assume that there will be a cancellation of Internet channels, that some other channels will be blocked. I've seen it before in Iran, a totalitarian blockade, where the precedents are here, the technology is here, it's not worth so much, and we're going to be looking for secret information that will somehow come from those objective foreign channels. Both the two advices, both Czech Radio and Czech Television, will play an important role in how we will actually be able to receive the information or will not be able to receive it. Finally, several specific cases of the importance of pluralistic composition of media control councils and what we would miss if the proposed amendment had passed. It's been mentioned here before. I'll do it again for the viewers who missed the broadcast this morning. Thursday, 16. 2. 2023 received the Alliance for Family from the Chairman of the Czech Television Council, Mr.Karel Novák, an assessment of her complaint about the report For all that was broadcast by Czech Television on the programme 168 hours on 12. 6. 2022. The Council of Czech Television has now given quite the truth to the Alliance for Family and has torn up Nora Fridrichová's explanation, which the Council of Czech Television has received as an opinion of the management of this media. The Alliance for the Family relied on its complaint in particular that although two different opinions are significantly represented in society, one of which wants a constitutional marriage as a bond between a man and a woman and the other of the adoption of a so-called same-sex marriage, the report was handled unilaterally in favour of the current of opinion, which promotes the law of marriage for the same-sex couples. In defence of the dramaturgy of the show, which was 100% in favour of the marriage's refinitionist, Nora Fridrichová said that the report was not intended to describe the familiar attitudes of both camps again and again. According to her, she's already a media evergreen. Everything has been said many times since the legalization of the registered partnership in 2006. The Czech Television Council has completely rejected such a defense, claiming that it is not possible to argue that the positions of both camps are known and are media evergreen, so the report did not address the opinions of opponents. First, when using this logic, the report could as well map only the opinions of opponents and not deal with the arguments of supporters. But most importantly, such processing seems completely contrary to the Czech Television Code, namely article five, which talks about the fact that Czech Television provides the viewers with information important for their versatile orientation and free formation of opinions. Another incompetence on the part of Czech Television revealed by the Council of Czech Television in this case was the invitation of a completely independent sociologist Zdeněk Svoboda, who TV forgot to mention was the founder, activist and LGBT lobbyist behind the Proud platform. The Czech Television Council concluded that the view of the world, which is conservative and not ultraconservative, as the Alliance for Family refers to the expression of Czech Television, is a legitimate part of the social debate in the Euro-American cultural circle and that its dislocation would shift the Czech Republic to regimes that suppress free debate. Another example is how information about the war in Náhorní Karabakh took place. How the news was actually being prepared, and how the fate of Armenian fighters who remained in Azerbaijani prisons after the war was completely neglected, and it was not possible in any way to make their return home quickly after the end of the fighting operations. It was quite surprising that Czech TV, which is so much about human rights, could forget them. [[13.00 hours]] Another example. It was the editors of the Czech News Agency again. When President Zeman awarded nine student leaders executed on November 17, 1939 in the autumn of last year, ČT reporters made a report that revealed that these executed students were not at all opposed to Nazism and occupation. On the contrary, they were randomly selected victims and that they actually cooperated with the Němec. Which, of course, was a false call to heaven, because all nine are among other things the holders of the Czechoslovak War Cross 1939, which was awarded to them by the President of the Republic on October 28, 1945. I can't imagine that at that time someone who was just a suspect in a collaboration with the Němec would have been granted such a high war award. But again, it was a demonstration of manipulation, a demonstration of how Czech television stood up to the possibility that the nine, which represented actually a cross-section of the political spectrum from the right to the left, who joined in opposition to the occupations, in the way in which they simply tried to discredit their memory, would tarnish it. It was incredible, incredible, where those people took the courage and the stomach at all. So this is a typical example of the independence and objectivity of our public television and its publicity, where leading editors, well-known media faces, have recently been making accusations about who is more bullying and who is more sexually harassing their subordinates. It is also an example of the key importance of media control councils elected only by the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, let us not be deprived of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u145	Thank you, too. And another to the general... With a point of fact, please. Really, your minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard quite a lot of speeches here today. Those things were still going on in that plane of political influence and direction towards political influence of public media. I have to say, for the SPD, that we fundamentally disagree. I would therefore like to ask you for a break at the SPD club meeting for one hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-054-02-001-001.u147	Well, thank you. It's 13.02, so I'm declaring a break for the SPD meeting until 14.02. Therefore, I must interrupt today's discussion of this meeting, as further extraordinary meetings will follow. Thank you. The Organizing Committee should be at 2:00, I think. The next meeting begins, the emergency meeting will be under schedule at 15 o'clock.
