ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 118/2000 Coll., on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /German press 288/ - second reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Environment, Marian Jurečka, and I will ask the Minister to take the floor. I'm just gonna ask, I've got Mr. Letocha's point of fact here, but I'm assuming that's a mistake, so I'm erasing you, okay? Well, thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to briefly mention this amendment to Act No. 118, House press number 288, we're at second reading. The first reading here was opened last year, so I will briefly comment on the essential reasons for submitting this amendment. It is therefore necessary to update existing adjustments reflecting particularly the intensive amendment of insolvency law at national and transnational level, also taking into account the recodification of private law in the Czech Republic, as other necessary adjustments responding to the development of employment legislation so that the law corresponds to terminology and conceptual developments in these other legal sectors. The most important proposed changes consist, in particular, in the definition of the relevant period from which the staff member is to be selected the months for which his wage claims due are to be satisfied at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, including the explicit adjustment of the relevant period for the transnational employer, from the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings in the insolvency register in the register of foreign decisions, the inclusion of the definition of the staff member's maturity for the purposes of satisfying the staff's wage claims, the link between the beginning of the 5 months period and 15 days for the submission of an application for the satisfaction of wage claims at the Office of the Czech Labour Office at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, the exclusion of employees who were members of the statutory body of the incompetent employer or persons who had a decisive influence on the employer's activities and had at least 25% of the participation in the employer, and the explicit inclusion of the possibility to deduct from the paid wage claim the so-called compensation provided under the Employment Act and the clarification of the obligation to repay the wage claims paid. At its 23rd meeting on 17 January, the Social Policy Guarantee Committee recommended agreeing to this government bill, in the wording of the amendments tabled, with which the MPSV agrees, but if there is a correction of the legislative technical inaccuracies that arose when one of these amendments was adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee, the committee resolution was delivered as the House Press 288/1 and I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, inform us of the committee's discussion and justify any amendments. Madam rapporteur, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, as mentioned, the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee discussed this press within a short period of 40 days. Now, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy number 84 of the 23rd meeting of 17 January 2023, which reads: "After the justification of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, the report by Jana Hanzlíková and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 118/2000 Coll., on the protection of employees in the insolvency of the employer and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, as amended," - as mentioned, the amendments have been delivered to you electronically as House printing 288/1; "II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the House, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; So much for the text of the resolution. And now, on the amendment adopted by Mr Kaňkovský, where there are essentially two amendments. The one, simple, consists in shifting efficiency from the originally intended 1 January 2023 to 1 July 2023, and the second amendment concerns the employment agencies for which it is proposed to abolish their compulsory bankruptcy insurance. Here, I think it is important to point out that the basic regulation of employment agencies remains in today's form, and therefore must continue to have permission for their work, for which they need, among other things, to demonstrate expertise, to post financial bail and other requirements. Specifically, this is a change in part one, it is a change in Act No. 118/2000 Sb., where it is proposed to exempt the exemption from the personal scope of the Act in respect of employees of employment agencies whose wage claims should be satisfied from the cancelled compulsory insurance. In part two, this is the amendment of the Employment Act, it includes the deletion of the regulation of the obligation of employment agencies to arrange insurance in the event of bankruptcy and procedure of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic in the event that the Agency did not fulfil this obligation of insurance. So much for me, and so far, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and I am asking because, electronically, no one is entered into a general debate... so please, Mrs Hanzlíková, is reporting from the scene. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u6	Thank you again, I could have stayed here. I would like to go back to that - he has already said it here, but I think it is very important here to say that, despite the fact that in this House of the Press, these are mainly legislative technical amendments which might seem to be not so descriptive, the opposite is true. In essence, by defining the relevant period at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, including the explicit adjustment of the relevant period, and by linking the period of 5 months and 15 days to the submission of an application for satisfaction of wage claims at the contact point of the regional branch of the Labour Office at the time of notification of the opening of insolvency proceedings, there is a really clear definition of the duties of workers of the labour offices. Such clarification always means ease for workers, and I think that at this time, when we are actually dealing with overload in the long term, and this really is a significant overload of labour authorities, I must say that even these minor legislative changes are very beneficial to them. I would also like to return to Mr Kaňkovský's amendment, the part concerning the employment agencies. Compulsory insurance has been discussed for a very long time at the Ministry of Labour at a time when stricter conditions were introduced for agencies, and I must say that at that time I worked at the Ministry of Labour, worked very closely with my colleagues from employment, and I must say that at that time it was really a legitimate solution, because we had a lot of complaints or questions from people who were either directly employed by the employment agencies or who had their employment brokered by the agencies. At the time it was one of the measures, there were other conditions for the agencies that had to meet, and for me it was clearly at that time very well. The compulsory insurance of the labour agency in the event of bankruptcy was therefore incorporated into the Employment Act, but practically it was found that it was past the effect, because it was gradually discovered that the biggest problems that occur in practice occur with illegal agencies, and these are agencies that do not fulfil even the basic obligations, as I mentioned here that there must be a prescribed expertise, this is often a very frequent violation of those rules, and there is also a problem with the composition of financial bail and the like. But it turns out that this is no longer so crucial for legal agencies of work. It has also been shown in practice that the number of cases in the case of legal employment agencies was so minimal that, in fact, at this time, I have to say that we agree, under YES, that compulsory insurance - the abolition of compulsory insurance - will take place. So much for that, and I must mention that, overall, this House press considers the YES movement to be positive, even for the reasons that I said here at the beginning, that it clears up the terminology and will certainly bring about saving time and simplifying work for the labour authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u7	I also thank you and ask again if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? I don't see anyone. The bill was not passed to the guarantee committee, so I am initiating a detailed debate in which Mr Navrátil is registered. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Mr Vít Kaňkovský's written amendment, which is inserted in the system under number 1851 from 7. 2. 2023. And second, allow me to propose in accordance with § 95 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure Act, a proposal to shorten the time limit for consultation between second and third reading to 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-004-001.u9	Thank you, too. I do not see anybody else registered to the general - sorry, I do not see detailed debates, so I am ending the detailed debate. As has already been said, the motion to return the law did not fall to the guarantee committee, the proposal to shorten the deadline... [[A clue.]] ...for 10 days, thank you. So I'm gonna go on. We vote to shorten the deadline to 10 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 60, 143 Members and Members signed in for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. And I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. I'm opening point two, which is
