ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws /German press 392 - shortened negotiations Mr Okleštěk is next. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, and I mean this frankly, my fellow ministers, my colleagues, first of all allow me to tell you that I am sorry that I did not have a chance to speak with what I have prepared for you during the three preceding days. I think it would be a nice talk, that we could all learn a lot from each other, and that educational window would benefit us eventually. I know that colleagues here always want amendments, so I'll give you a list of my amendments and try to say something about them here. I, in the previous period, as the vast majority of you, at least I suppose, received a large number of letters, e-mail correspondence, people coming to my office. And I took a few to tell you about them. But don't worry, I won't read them all to you. No way, 'cause I'd find it so sad and obstructive. But I'll read you at least one of those short e-mails. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] He writes to me: "Dear Member, I am writing to you in connection with the new measures..." I would like to ask Madam President, if colleagues are not interested in hearing this, let them keep their voice down or leave the room. It bothers me, and then I can't handle the speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u3	Copy that. I would like to ask the House of Honor to be quiet, so that the Member may have a dignified space. Thank you very much. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u4	I don't know if I should start all over again or... I'll just start with the letter. "Dear Member, I am writing to you in relation to the new pension measures planned by the Government of the Czech Republic. The proposed measures are totally unacceptable to us, honest workers. It is not possible for people who spend their entire lives contributing to the social security system to receive a lower pension at a time when everything is getting more expensive and facing excessive inflation, and they will still have to wait for it until 68 years. After all, this is the longest from across the European Union. In addition, employees in the Czech Republic work longer than employees in most countries of the European Union. Dear Member, these steps by the Government of the Czech Republic fundamentally threaten the decent lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger. There must be other solutions to ensure the sustainability of the pension system than merely reducing the amount of pensions or increasing the retirement age. This may, for example, be an improvement in conditions for people who work in physically demanding professions. The government should focus on finding other sources of funding for the pension system that will not come out of employees' pockets. I'm a general nurse, a specialist who's been working since I was 18 without a break, on shifts, for 34 years in the hospital for surgery and emergency reception. I can't imagine working at such a highly exposed workplace when I was 68 years old. Not just us paramedics, but firefighters, policemen, metallurgical workers working in the heavy industry, shopkeepers, in short, all honest-working people deserve a decent retirement without fear of whether they will ever see it, and if so, what they will live on. I therefore ask you not to support these steps of the Government of the Czech Republic in the framework of the legislative process. Sincerely, BC Drexlerová Andrea." I'm sure you've received a lot of similar letters, too, and I've actually taken them to trust me. I'm not going to read it, I'm saying it's not the goal of my performance. I took a couple of them as a pattern here. But I'll tell you more about the way I see it. I come from a village in Prostějov, and I've lived there since I was a kid until recently. You know, agriculture usually works in these villages, or at least it used to work there. I am sorry that the former Minister of Agriculture is not here because he also moves not only geographically but also expertise in this area. In that agriculture these people worked their whole lives intensely because they weren't tech, they were nothing. Those are the ones who also have the low pensions. At the time, it was counted on the units that were taken away and received a few crowns for them. - I see you don't care much, you prefer to discuss other things there, but it bothers me. These people are at that age these days when they need help. They are also very often widowers or widows, and they live in houses in those villages. There are rarely flats there, just like the city's doing. Nowadays and today's expensive ones are simply in charge of the house, and when the man is supposed to tighten it economically, heating, electricity, water, waste, everything, and still physically work on it, and the houses are almost unsellable, because he's just a big monster and can't be sold, nobody wants it so those people are almost broke. If their children don't help them, they don't have much chance of quality or at least average life. Many times, as mayor - and I did it for 20 years in the village - I met people both young and older. Young people say a lot these days, it doesn't bother me so much that I should make more money, but I want more free time, I just want quality of life. I agree with them and I understand them. If we have a world so rich today, let them have the quality of life. But doesn't the quality of life, at least mediocre, deserve those seniors? It's a disgrace! Try to think about it. [[9.10 hours]] I think they deserve it, on the contrary, because they are the ones who, as we said here today, yesterday and the day before yesterday, have the greatest share in where we are in terms of the development of the Czech Republic today. If we despise such people and don't try to help them, they just can't. The big disadvantage of the country is that they're just not apartments. That's the exception when there are apartments in the country, I mean apartment houses, and those seniors, both old and sick and need health care. There are different homes for seniors and so on, in the vast majority of cities, but then we'd have to shove those homes all the way under the roof to get those people there, and we just don't have the capacity. So, as my colleague Klára Dostálová mentioned, this is also the problem, which means building for young people and a combination of life together, that means rebuilding the house for cheap money to expand housing units in villages so that they can rent apartments there and so on. I think that as an outline of how it works among seniors, it might be enough for you. And when I look at these benches because there are a few people here, I think you're not so cynical or so cold and despised - and a colleague shows that he isn't, and I believe him - you're going to do something to give these people a little better standard of life and a solid quality of life. If we don't do this, it's actually the steps that shorten the length of life, and maybe it's the government's goal, maybe it's not just in the programming statement, but you're trying to get rid of the seniors the most, and then it's a sure way, but it's definitely not ours. Therefore, I would like to apply from this point to my amendments, namely to Amendment 2218, where it is in Article 2218. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) [[House document]] (b) the amount "400" shall be replaced by "1,465." Furthermore, the amendment, House document 2236, where in Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1.536 CZK." In addition, there is a document 2237, where Article 5 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 provides that: Section 67ca, par. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1 607 CZK." And my last, fourth amendment 2238, where in Article Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1 678 CZK." I am sorry that I did not have a chance to explain more to you in the contribution that I would have had during the debate, but that debate somehow disappeared, I did not get because you canceled it, so maybe next time you will be more helpful and we will be able to say these things so that they will lead to the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic and not just some smaller groups. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u5	Thank you. Another one for the detailed debate is Mr Štolpa. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me read here my four amendments to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws. The first of my amendments has the number of House document 2181, in the article. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1 483 CZK." My second amendment has number 2183. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1.554 CZK." My third amendment has number 2148. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "1 625 CZK." And my fourth amendment has the number of House document 2185. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in (b) the amount "400 CZK" is replaced by "amount 1 696 CZK." The aim of the amendments is to increase the amount by which the pension percentage increases when the pension is increased at an exceptional date in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u7	Thank you, too. And another with an application for a detailed debate is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, esteemed colleagues. The amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, as proposed by the government five-wheelers, is unacceptable. If, aside from the way we are discussing it, I must point out the retroactivity that is inadmissible in our legal system. The rules are for her to pay. The pension valorisation system was set up to protect pension recipients from price increases. Older and disabled pensioners often do not have the opportunity to earn extra money due to their health condition. Therefore, the mechanism responds to the increase in their cost of living. I would like to remind you that it is the food and things that are most expensive to do without. Conditions for valorisation occurred on the day of the announcement of the consumer price index on 10 February this year. Only then did the government remember that it didn't have the resources in the budget, and it wanted to reverse the rules of the game. This is dangerous from my point of view, and it creates an atmosphere of uncertainty in the future. The government has caused prices to rise with its subtlety. And so we have the third highest inflation in the EU. However, the consequences are to be borne by citizens, especially the most vulnerable. The government argues the ratio of pensions to average wages and salaries. But the argument is often, forgive the expression, out of order. The Czech Republic is known for the below-average income of workers compared to neighbouring countries. It is only a question of when the tensions between employees and employers will be allowed and firms and the state will be forced to straighten out the imbalance. Strangling the economy can lead to what none of us want. The government changed the valorisation by choosing a fixed amount and a percentage increase instead of a percentage increase. Perhaps that would be okay, because theoretically it can lead to the grip of scissors between the lowest and highest pensions. On principle, we could welcome this, but not in the form that the government promotes by force. Only a minimum of people with pensions of around CZK 8,000 will improve. By 10,000 crowns, they'll be losing on that pensioner. And what we're going to talk about is this income is very low these days. Most pension recipients receive around 20,000, and there people are already losing $1,000 a month. [[9.20 hours]] A similar heist in broad daylight is unacceptable to us. And if I say that a combination of a fixed and a percentage increase would be justified, certainly not in the way the government did it. Retroactivity itself is nothing we want to deal with. We would certainly like to be able to meet the pension reform as a whole. We're ready to cooperate on it, discuss it. It should definitely not be something that the next government should be changing. However, I am fundamentally against the idea that we should approve an ad hoc amendment. Given that I consider this amendment to be very bad, I will nevertheless try to reject this amendment by my amendments, which I will put forward in a moment. I would now like to introduce you to my amendments, which I could divide into two categories. The first concerns the amount by which the percentage of pensions is increased when raising pensions within an exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. So specifically. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its (b) "400 kroner" is replaced by "1 471 kroner." That is Amendment 2087. Furthermore, it is a House document with the number 2088 when in the article. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) "400 kroner" is replaced by "1.542 kroner." It is also a House document with the number 2091, when it is in Article 2091 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) Furthermore, it is House Document No 2093, when it is in Article 2093. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) And now for the second category of amendments. It is an amendment, House Document Nos 2334 and 2335. It is a joint amendment with Mrs Balaštíková. This amendment concerns state budget resources and I will now justify it. As a result of high price growth, it is necessary to allocate funds from the state budget in the following years to the so-called inflation clause enshrined in the property settlement law with churches and religious societies. At present, the amount of the outstanding amount of the financial compensation is increased annually by the rate of annual inflation published by the Czech Statistical Office for the calendar year by two years preceding the calendar year of payment of the specific annual instalment. Taking into account current inflation, it is clear that the new amount outstanding increased by inflation from 2022 and 2023 would require the allocation of State budget resources to an extent that was not only assumed but also unsustainable. A partial reduction in the impact of the inflation clause is therefore proposed, with the amount outstanding increasing annually by a fixed percentage corresponding to average inflation over the last ten years, i.e. by 3.03 % over the years 2013 to 2022. This will significantly reduce expenditure from the state budget for maintaining the appreciation of the rest of the outstanding amount that is rightfully due to churches and religious societies. These are my reasons. I will, of course, give the rapporteur in writing. And I thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u9	Thank you, too. And another one for the detailed debate is Mrs Pastuchová, who I do not see in the hall. So, please, Mr. Kott.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u10	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I too would like to imagine my four amendments, and then my colleague Špičák's amendments. My amendments are essentially similar to the amendments that my colleagues have presented here, and for this reason I will not repeat here the reasoning that has been raised many times. I will refer only to the fact that I have set up House Document 2196, where the amendment addresses Art. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) "400 kroner" is replaced by "1 451 kroner." This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (b) "400 kroner" is replaced by "1.552 kroner." This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (b) "400 kroner" is replaced by "1 664 kroner." A House document 2198, where in Article 2198, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of These are my amendments. And I will also apply to Mr Špičák's amendments, as I have pre-shooted. So there is House document 2295, 2296, House document 2297 and House document 2298. As I said, my colleagues have made the justification here, and I, beyond what has fallen here, will also support Mrs Jermanová's proposal and join in the rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u11	Thank you, too. And the next party to the detailed debate is Mr. Strýček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u12	So hello, Madam Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues. I hereby sign up for my four amendments, which are registered in the system under House documents No 2111, 2112, 2113 and 2114. All these four amendments relate to the Government Bill amending Law No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws. The aim of these four amendments is to increase the amount by which the pension percentage increases when the pension increases in an exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. For Amendment 2111, Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) "400 CZK" is replaced by "180." In Amendment 2113, this amount "400 CZK' is replaced by "1 622 CZK' in the same Article § 67ca para. 1. In Amendment 2112, this amount "400 CZK" is replaced by "1551 CZK" and, for Amendment 2114, this amount "400 CZK" is replaced by "1693 CZK." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u13	Thank you, too, and please, another one for the detailed debate is Mrs Hanzlíková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also like to read my amendments because I consider the present proposal to be very antisocial and non-systemic and I have serious reservations about the way in which the state of legislative emergency has been used, and I also have reservations about the way in which there was really minimal room to express my views on this proposal. I must say that I am very sorry that by changing the valuation formula in the proposal, the seniors will lose an average of CZK 1 000 a month, and I am sorry because the seniors are among the vulnerable groups of the population most affected by excessive increases in food prices, energy, medicines and services. And 86 percent of Czech seniors are entirely dependent on the pension system. Although pensions were validated three times last year, there are half a million seniors living below the poverty line. This is particularly true of those who live alone, often live in a rental apartment where they increase rent and energy payments, or they are seniors who have been caring for their entire lives, and there are also people with disabilities whose only income is a disability pension. At present, high prices of energy, fuel, food, medicines, but also services are very much at risk, and unfortunately there are also social services where there has been an increase in the amount of client participation. Now specifically on the amendments. The four amendments concern Art. I § 67 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and amends the amount of CZK 400. The amendment, which is included in the system under number 2145, changes the amount of CZK 400 to CZK 1,440. The amendment, which is mentioned under number 2146, amends the amount of CZK 400 to CZK 1,511. Another proposal, which is mentioned under number 2147, changes the amount of 400 crowns to 1,582 and under number 2148 changes the amount of 400 crowns to 1,653 crowns. The other three amendments under 2284, 2285 and 2286 concern a shift in efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u15	I also thank you, and since at the beginning of the meeting this morning at 9 o'clock, unfortunately, no apologies have been entered into the system, the system will have to restart during the meeting so that all the functions it has to have do so allow me to read the apologies submitted by the organizational department. Today, within 10 hours for reasons of work, Mr Adámková Věra, Mrs Babišová Andrea Oulehlová all Renata for health reasons, Mr Bašta Jaroslav all day for health reasons, Mr Benda Marek all day for Karel Okamura, Mr Bernard Josef all day for health reasons, Mr Brázdil Milan all day for work Karel, Mr Bžoch Jaroslav all Hayato for health reasons, Mr Feranec Milan all day for health Petr, Mr Šimon Šimon all day for medical Tureček, Mr Jáč Ivan until 12 hours for work Helena, Mr Janulík Miloslav all day for work Vondrák, Mr Kohajda Michael until 17 hours for working Ivo, Mrs Krutáková Jana all day for Nováková of trial, from Mr Lacina Jan to 11 hours for working Nina, and from 13.30 to 16.30 for health reasons, Mr Lochman Ondřej from 10.15 to Mrs. Minister Balaš Vladimír apologizes from the members of the government from 13:30 to 16:00 for working reasons, Minister Bek Mikuláš for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Černochová Jana for the whole day of the meeting without giving reason, Minister Kupka Martin from 9:00 to 21:30 for foreign travel reasons, Minister Langšádlová Helena for the whole day of the meeting for work reasons, Minister Lipavskýý Jan for work reasons and Minister Šalomoun Michal from 9:00 to 14:00 for working reasons. Thank you for your patience. And now, with the club's opinion, Mr Juchelka is registered. Ambassador, please, and I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u16	Thank you very much, with the club's opinion I won't be too long, of course, many things have already been said here. I would just like to start by saying that when I see Mr Haas here, who threw the glove on the table yesterday with the bet, I accept the bet. So I suggest that it be reasonable that we give to charity, such as the Centre of Conduct, which is my heart's business, where the Hospital Center is accompanied by parents and their children, who have some serious diagnosis, and where they need the funds, and that funding would be that it would be double the difference between the frozen and the new wage between January and December, when we increased our wages here, which could be about CZK 20, 25,000. So this is my proposal, my offer, then, of course, we can come to an agreement. That's a specific bet, and I accept it. Statement by the club rapporteur. In the event of a legislative emergency, the Government proposes to limit the increase in pensions and the supplementary pension at an exceptional date in June 2023 in order to minimise the budgetary effects of the valuation. A lower increase in pensions would mean a deterioration in the income position of the elderly population with an impact on their purchasing power. The stabilisation of public finances must not be achieved at the expense of one of the most economically endangered groups of persons. And they're really at risk, and at this point, I'd even say on several fronts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u17	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, I understand that we're all tired, but please, please, go take your calls outside the boardroom. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u18	First, the government chose them as a means and a symbol of its struggle with inflation. By this law, he wants to limit what belongs to them. She chose a group that can't simply defend herself and wields solidarity and by not remaining on others just because the law was fulfilled. That's all this is about. Nobody wants anything extra. We, within the opposition, just want the laws to be respected, so that a safe rule of law can function. Secondly, the government has chosen them as a group of people whose unenviable situation is divided by society due to rising prices, and this is indeed reprehensible, putting different groups of people against each other and digging up ditches for intergenerational solidarity. And thirdly, we read today that the government is going to reintroduce regulatory fees with the doctor. At this time, in this situation. I don't understand. I really don't understand. [[9.40 hours]] For reasons of disproportionate interference with the legitimate expectations of pension recipients, breach of the principles of equality and merit of social insurance and reactivity of the law, the proposal may be considered unconstitutional. It's short notice. Scissors are certainly being opened between low-income and high-income seniors, but making an amendment to the law without any discussion, without a standard legislative process, when we know the Constitutional Court's finding, which is very defined against the disproportionality between the basic and merit components of the pension, proves the indiscretion, chaoticness and non-systemicity of this government. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] I will just ask, Madam President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u19	Yes, I see it, and please, especially in the left, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u20	I'd like to ask the president of our club if she could... Thank you very much. [[President: Yes, thank you for your help.]] Pensions are increased on the basis of the rules laid down by law, which will be reflected in the adoption of a government regulation to increase pensions. As regards valorisation at an exceptional date, the government's regulation must be issued within 50 days of the end of the month when the price increase reached 5%. The specific adjustment for the increase comes from the government's regulation, which is why there is a rush, because because of the presidential election, you did not have the courage to go with the controversial amendment to the classic legislative process. The amount of valorisation is adjusted in § 67 para. 10, procedure of valorisation then in § 67 para. 16. Both provisions proposed by the bill suspend in one time for the increase in June 2023, and propose a new amendment, but only for the amount of valorisation, for the calculation itself. The period for establishing price increases ends in the month in which price increases have been exceeded by 5%, i.e. January 2023. Price growth, measured by changing the cost of living index of pensioners' households in January 2023, reached 8,6 per cent, over the whole period from June 2022 to 11.5 per cent. The same percentage, i.e. 11,5 %, should be increased by the percentage of pensions paid in June 2023 unless the legislation is amended. And that's why we're here, that's why we're here tonight, that's why we're fighting for it, because we don't want laws breaking in the course of their fulfillment. We're simply not going to change the rules in the third period of the game. Therefore, if the proposed amendment is not published in the Collection of Laws by 22 March, the Government will be obliged to issue a regulation with valorisation by the end of 22 March of this year, according to today's rules. It is therefore proposed to adopt a law in a state of legislative emergency and to select extraordinary effectiveness on the day of its publication. And that's really scandalous, because we're simply changing the rules in that third period. All the decisive facts that give rise to the government's obligation to implement the government's regulation to increase pensions have already occurred, and so it is known since when and by what amounts pensions are to be increased. This is a change of legal rules, the conditions of which have already been fulfilled, concerns the period that has already passed, and even the existing rules have already calculated the legal rate of valorisation. Now there is to be a mere payout under government regulations. The legal rules of valorisation in the government seem too high to change back. Instead of qualifying 11.5 % of the income, there is an increase in the percentage of the income by 2,3%, with the low-income pensions almost maintaining the original amount of the remuneration, and the higher the pension, the higher the percentage of the valuation falling and the significant distortion of the link to the merits of the pension. While lower pensions are the loss of zero or hundreds of crowns, the average pension is the loss of a thousand crowns, we are talking about the 7,000 by the end of the year, and so on. For higher pensions, it is even 3,000 thousand less. This also undermines the constitutional and legal principle of equality. And we know that because the Constitutional Court has already declared once that it must not interfere indirectly between the basic part and the merit part of the pension notice. The law imposes an increase in the percentage of the pension, although it increases mostly by a fixed amount for a significant part of the pension. Compared to the meaning and purpose of the law, there is a general increase in pensions, thereby fundamentally denying the principle of merit typical of the social insurance subsystem. That is why the Constitutional Court can bring it down, and that is why we need to make a tuned amendment, not just a quickie for the state budget, but also so that we can all rely on the rule of law in the future, that the laws are true, that we live in democracy, that we do not bend the laws in this way, but also citizens' trust, because it is simply appropriate for us now and at this moment. That is why I say that we are going to vote against and we have a disagreeable position on this amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u21	I thank you, too, and your speech raised a point of fact. I have Mr. Strýček here, but I don't see him, so I guess that was a mistake. So, Mr. Flek. Please. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u22	Thank you, good morning. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to dwell on this, but when my colleague has already mentioned this through you, an increase in fees for urgent revenue - Minister Válek mentioned the subject of overuse. I would say abuse at this point, because if you knew what was happening on urgent income, as there was abuse of this medical practice, you might speak a little differently. I know it from experience. I recently attended the trauma hospital in Brno with acute gastritis. I don't know if it has anything to do with me becoming an MP a year ago, maybe. But I just wanted to say that doctors aren't sharpeners, nurses aren't sharpeners, and integrated rescue systems aren't taxi drivers! And you really find out that abuse is taking place, and you might even be able to prevent it by increasing the charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u23	I also thank you for keeping time. It raised two further factual points, Mrs Schillerová, and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u24	Mr flek, through Madam Vice-President, I sincerely regret your gastritis, but each of us has the right to choose what path he will take in his life. But now about what you said. I suppose you're not going on the path of the Minister of Health, I didn't hear anything that the Prime Minister would want to replace it, although I think he should have done it a long time ago, but hopefully he has some analysis to do it, hopefully he has some groundwork for it, hopefully we know what the situation is there and comes up with a proposal and he's going to deal with it. But we certainly don't support that in order to impose charges on the weakest in society. And again, it's another balloon, a shot, something pops up, there's gonna be a big discussion about it, but the bubble is gonna blow under the pressure of the public, under the pressure of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u25	I also thank you for the time being and another with a factual remark is Mr Juchelka, Mr Mašek will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u26	Thank you very much. I would have responded to one of my honored colleagues through you. We're talking about some context, some time we're in. After all, at this point, when food prices are rising, when energy prices, fuel prices are rising, you still want to load families, for example, by canceling kindergarten fees, by increasing property tax, and at this point today you will even introduce fees. So I quote, "From my point of view, there's a big catch. Doesn't that lead to everyone calling an ambulance? So regulation on urgent income is needed, a lot of people go there for nothing. The question is how to penalize those who abuse it by means of a regulatory fee. And I'm not making that up, I'm waiting for NERV. Anyway, I want to introduce charges." [[9.50 hours]] So you guys are launching another balloon that you don't have to discuss, you don't have it systemically, you just know that you just want to take some money out of these people at some point. When you're done talking, when it's some kind of system, when you submit it, then go to the paper with it. Because you keep saying this: we're going to retire at 68 years old, we're going to increase the contributions for the self-employed who are the backbone of our economy, we're going to sanction early repayment of mortgages for young families, we're going to, like I said, cancel kindergarten fees, we're going to cancel tax discounts for husbands, and right now you're introducing an additional fee. I don't understand this government at all, I don't know what it's all about. Not at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Mašek. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u28	Madam President, fellow Members, I must respond because this is an intervention in what I am doing, or, in fact, up to now, more than 30 years. So pre-hospital care, urgent income issues are my area of expertise. There are more of us here in the House by chance. The problem that even colleague Flek here pointed out in good faith, of course, exists here, but we have done something tangible for him. During our reign, we managed to put into life a project of 78 urgent revenues, for which money has been raised and which are now being built in all district cities. You're talking about a situation in a number of emergency ambulances, but they're going to be replaced by systemically urgent income in those county towns, where he's also going to be a practice doctor's office and then an urgent one himself. So that's what we're working on, the emergency ones are created, and the emergency intake has to be a triage nurse who decides the order of the patients. So even the order where you wait it out, if you come up with something unmarked, it's a certain filter. The 90 crowns were introduced, people got used to it, paid for it. And the only thing to think about in the future is a certain malus, which means that if someone obviously takes advantage of it, they will be treated, but then some penalties can be considered, for example, by the way of a health insurance company, that part of the bill will come to him to pay. But, for God's sake, experts have been discussing this in the long run, it is not so simple at all, and at the moment, we cannot in any way rob those citizens that we are now taking money from in this bill, in fact still penalize and increase their additional costs. I think at this point, the congress is completely insane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u29	Thank you for keeping time. No one else, with a factual remark, is entered and we will now continue the detailed debate. Signed up, Mrs... [[Voice from the O.R.]] I apologise, Madame, with priority rights, President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD fundamentally rejects the unacceptable procedure of the government of Petr Fiala on the planned rapid reduction of the legal extraordinary valorisation of all pensions. Briefly and briefly, on the fourth day of my life, I am fighting for the government not to rob the 3.5 million pension recipients of the promised valorisation. It's a big fight against odds, because there are only 20 of us in the SPD, and the government MPs are 108, but we fight with all our strength. This government measure, the government proposal, is antisocial and, in my opinion, unconstitutional. I am making a motion on behalf of the SPD to reject this government bill right away, so this proposal of mine will be voted on as part of the third reading. So I would like to repeat this for the President: on behalf of the SPD, I am making a motion to reject this law. So my proposal will be voted on in the third reading and, of course, the SPD will vote in favour of rejection. Now let's go to the law. It will result in serious economic and social damage to our seniors, disabled people, widows, widows and orphans, especially the low-income ones. Much of them already live in income poverty according to statistical data. Now the Fialův government wants to send thousands more into it. The government planned to valorize pensions well below the level of current inflation, which robs a pensioner with an average income of more than CZK 1,000 a month, the government, the Fialův government, robs them of more than CZK 1,000 a month on average, and it will also mean another great strain on the system, on the social system, which, when the government forces seniors to stand in line after hard life's honest work at overloaded employment offices, led by Minister Jurečka of KDU-ČSL and will lead these authorities further to collapse, in which they are often due to the inability of the President of KDU-ČSL and Minister Marian Jurečka. Not to mention the risk of another thousand pensioners falling into debt and execution. So Purple's government is robbing seniors here by 1,000 crowns on average. These are all pension beneficiaries. Originally, the pensioners were to be given an average of valorisation, according to the still valid law, increased by - they were to receive an extra CZK 1,770 in the framework of the valuation on average and now the government wants to reduce it on average to only CZK 760 in order to get CZK 760 in the framework of the valuation. That means he's gonna rob all the seniors by a thousand on average. And we simply disagree with this in the SPD, which is why on the fourth day of the SPD's best efforts, it is preventing this adoption of the law, because we are simply on the side of all 3.5 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic. And not to mention that the government's proposal once again increases the risk of another thousand pension recipients falling into debt and execution. The annualisation of pensions is intended to serve and serve to compensate for the effects of the price increase on our pensioners, which are hard hit by inflation, because the prices of goods and services they most often purchase and thus pay the cost of housing, food and medicines are rising even faster than average inflation. The 19 billion that the government wants to take away from pensioners now is not a dizzying amount in terms of the total expenditure of the state budget, especially when we realise that the revenue of the state is increasing enormously because of high VAT collection due to high inflation and that this budget contains a number of items that are absolutely necessary and can be saved or cut. The position of the SPD is clear - the June annualisation of pensions and any other exceptional valuation of pensions this year must take place according to the now valid and effective pension insurance law, and the SPD insists that all pension recipients receive an extra pension in June, in addition to their CZK 1,770 on average. But the Fialův government wants to rob them of this money. And now we're defending it here. Here I would like to make another remark, and it is very important that you do not want to rob those pension recipients only by an average of CZK 1 000 a month, but on the basis of the new law that you are enforcing here and which we are defending, it will actually reduce the basis for calculating further potential valorisations, so you are robbing pensioners in the next stage, for example next year, by more than CZK 1,000 a month on average. So the situation is even worse, and that's not what we're talking about in the media that you're stealing from those old people even more. Even more than at this point, it's going to be an average of CZK 1,000 minus per pensioner per month, but it's even more in the finals. [[10.00 hours]] This, of course, is totally unacceptable for the SPD, because we are on the side of all decent people. And you threw them overboard. The government coalition - ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and STAN - just threw 3.5 million pensioners and their families overboard. And here, of course, it is also necessary to name the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, Chairman of KDU-ČSL. Because that antisocial policy, it's really crazy. If we are to talk about any change in the valuation scheme for the future, it is only that the increase in pensions will be fair to all their beneficiaries by the same financial amount, i.e. from the same base. For example, it is offered for the part of the average income that will correspond to the current growth in inflation. Members of the SPD are filing more than 100 amendments to this antisocial government draft, namely 102 amendments for us. First of all, it is Mrs Lucie Šafránková's proposal, which has social affairs in our country, to abolish the entire antisocial government plan to reduce the pensioners' legal valorisation and return to the state of the art, i.e. to increase all pensions by the entire rate of inflation. Furthermore, Ms Šafránková has submitted a proposal to amend the valuation formula so that proper and exceptional valorisation takes place in the future for all pension beneficiaries always by the same amount calculated from the current average pension. This is the SPD's long-term goal to valorize all pensioners with the same amount, not the same percentage, because it expands the same percentage, only opens up social scissors between poor and rich pensioners in the sense that the poorer are even poorer. And it is precisely the lowest pensions up to the 18,000, up to the 19,000, that, from my point of view, is the biggest problem, because, of course, there is no living for those pensions. Of course. So that is our next amendment. This amendment would mean, in practice, that the increase in all pensions would be about 2,200 a month. That's right and fair. That's the SPD target. Now at this moment. That's our idea of the valorization. This means the government gives CZK 760 on average, steals from pensioners by CZK 1,000, because they have actually received an extra CZK 1,770 in June. And we think it should be an extra 2,200 for all of us. Of course, in that case, it is necessary to cut the senseless expenditures that the Fialův Government has shown here, which I have mentioned here several times in my speeches. Because the Czech citizen is not a priority for you. You have priorities in Berlin, Brussels, Kiev, Washington. God knows what they promised you back there. In all of our other proposals, the amendments to the SPD, it is then an increase in the amount of remuneration for all pension recipients to the level that the currently valid and effective pension insurance law, i.e. an increase in the average pension, the valuation, is about CZK 1,000 a month in addition to the social government proposal. This means, in the other 100 amendments that we are proposing, we are putting back the valorisation where it is supposed to be, which means that pensions for all pension recipients will increase by at least the average 1 770, which will be increased by the law from June onwards. And that's what you want to cut by CZK 1,000 and rob those pensioners. So we're putting it back. Some of our amendments then go slightly beyond this amount. At the same time, all of our proposals provide higher valorisation to low- and below-average pensioners. Higher valorization. In the SPD we fundamentally disagree with the proposed bill, which is contrary to all the principles on which Czech pension insurance is based, and in clear contradiction with the Constitution. I find it unacceptable and unprecedented that the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, led by Minister Marian Jurečka of the KDU-ČSL, in preparing the bill, the government bill that we do not agree with, so you completely ignored social dialogue and knowingly went around the standard legislative process at both government and parliamentary level on such a key issue. By sending a government draft law into a pseudo-comment procedure of one day, the requirement of the relevant provisions of the Labour Code is not even fulfilled, according to which draft laws relating to the important interests of workers are discussed with the relevant trade unions and employers' organisations. Pension recipients are to a large extent working - not only disabled, widows, widows, and orphans who you want to rob, but also tens of thousands of old-age pensioners, the rest of whom have been those working people for decades. And all these citizens, 3.5 million people, it's a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic, you want to rob of the promised valorization. And we're defending it here. We are on the side of the 3.5 million pension recipients against Petr Fiala's five-police government. Moreover, the failure to discuss the proposed legislation by the Legislative Council of the Government precludes a responsible assessment of its constitutionality, in particular as regards the lack of respect for legitimate expectations on the part of pensioners regarding the level of statutory valuation of their pension, the fundamental importance of which has been highlighted in the past by the Constitutional Court in a number of its findings. The only real objective of this proposal, and it is an incredible shame, is the effort of the incompetent and harmful Fialův government to reduce this year's state budget deficit, which the government has produced itself. I have already mentioned this in the past few days that you yourself will cause, the Fialův Government itself will cause its incompetence to cause economic damage to the Czech Republic and to all citizens and companies, and then, with a reason for threatening economic damage or economic damage, it wants to rob pensioners. This is an incredible situation! When I recap, you've been with the government for almost a year and a half, so you've added three extra ministerial posts, including the secretariats. It was just a start, if I remember correctly, CZK 72 million, just the initial salaries and the expenses, the cars with the driver, the secretariats, everything. We still don't know exactly what these ministers are doing. They're basically completely anonymous ministers who don't really speak here in the House, Mrs. Langšádlová from TOP 09, Mr. Bek from STAN, I noticed Mr. Šalomoun here for the first time at this meeting, but since then he hasn't even shown up, he's been here at the beginning, for a while. So the political newsrooms to your political exponents, that means increasing the number of ministers, unlimited number of political representatives, you agreed, you canceled the Deputys. You have now created a new office here from January 1st with another 200 employees for the Pirates. [[10.10 hours]] Of course, then you don't have the pension money. And we're criticizing it. We have always voted against your proposals for political trades and political prebends. And yet the government parties here have voted for themselves to raise the salaries of politicians. We were against it. We're against raising politicians' salaries. And my proposal to freeze politicians' salaries for the entire term has already been voted here last year. And you turned it down for me. By the way, my proposal was also voted on in the last parliamentary term. And I also got rejected by the other parties. That's why I'm making this proposal on a continuous basis. But so we are in opposition, there are 20 out of 200 of us, and you are outvoted here when we are promoting all of our good proposals for citizens, which citizens would certainly welcome. Moreover, the governmentFialův government's state budget here does not, of course, calculate at all the expenditure on June's extraordinary pension valorisation, which is an exaggeration for an economic psychiatrist. This really needs to be stressed. I haven't done this part yet, but some media have already done it. The government of the five koalice, specifically the Minister of Finance, is Vice-President of the ODS, Minister of Finance Stanjura, so he already, although the inflation was clearly predicted, we could clearly assume it and was clearly foreseen because due to your government last year, one of the highest inflations in the Czech Republic was from all the countries of the European Union highly above the European Union average, so of course it was quite clear that you were the worst government in the European Union, so you could... But that dilettante of yours has also shown that you want to hurt all the pensioners here, because Minister Stanjura and the Ministry and Prime Minister Fiala, because he doesn't know which beats at all, I think everyone has already noticed, that's such a puppet, isn't it, so we know it, so you just didn't put it in the state budget for this year, the June valorization. That means you even dirtyly decided to throw 3.5 million pensioners overboard last fall. You've already counted on throwing them overboard, just hiding it, because it was before the presidential election to succeed your candidate Petr Pavel, the Fialův Five-calice candidate, backed by the Purple Five-calice government. And now, of course, after the presidential election, you're going completely openly and to the fullest. And now it's come to this public knowledge that you didn't even put the valorization into the budget, that you didn't really count on it anymore, that you didn't even assume it anymore. Yeah, the inflation is announced in February. But again, based on the fact that your government was proven, even at the end of last year, it was clear that about the astronomical level of inflation, that you were one of the worst, that the Czech Republic was one of the worst in the Czech Republic because of you, so it was quite obvious that the valorization would have to happen. And we pointed out that it was necessary to valorize properly and adequately, but I already talked about it. You, of course, gave tens of billions to Ukraine, 50 billion, and you threw the pensioner, the Czech pensioner, the pensioner, you threw overboard. That's exactly what I was pointing out, and it happened. And until a few months ago, some media got into me, not all of them, I have to tell you the truth, some have already understood it, and they've already seen the horror that your government is showing, but mostly the media that are on your side as full and ostentatious, so of course it attacked. And now their grandmothers, their grandfathers, and they're all gonna lose their money because of you. That means, of course, it's a miserable situation. I am simply saying this clearly, because by the time you agreed on this state budget for this year, it was clear that inflation would be dramatically high this year and that it would still be in double digits, or above 10 percent. It was quite clear that you were one of the worst governments in Europe. You guys are the only ones playing comedy all the time. So it is not about any measures aimed at reforming the pension system, what you are doing here, but purely about the fiscal and budgetary step of a desperate government that can neither formally draw up a budget. From a legal and constitutional point of view, this approach is arbitrary and unworthy of constitutional bodies. In the past, the valuation mechanism for extraordinary increases in pensions was included in the Pension Insurance Act completely consciously in order to protect pensioners who, as a rule, do not have any means of effective defence against inflation other than income from their pensions, which mainly concerns old-age pensioners. The valorisation mechanism here is also intended to protect pension recipients from falling into poverty. But it doesn't matter to your government. As I have already communicated here in my previous speeches, as well as in official statistics, it is clear from publicly accessible statistics that because of your government, approximately one million seniors have a problem with insufficient income and with the payment of the cost of their basic livelihoods. And, of course, others are in huge trouble, and they are, of course, at or below the poverty line. But you don't care. The Fialův Government doesn't care. You want to drag us into war. Secretary of War Černochová of the ODS, only: war, war, war. To engage in war. You even scare the public with terms like selective mobilization, because you would like to send our citizens to war. And I have a proposal for you, so if you want to do the selection mobilisation you are talking about, and you want to drag the Czech Republic into war, you ministers, Mrs. Černochová, Prime Minister Fiala, go to the front line of Ukraine and your families. Show us! But none of you will! You would send citizens, you would drag citizens into war, but you yourself would set an example, that's not because the proposal, as we know, is that they will be separated from it by Members and their families. So you yourself who want to send citizens, that's how you separate yourselves. It's just an incredible situation! So I'm telling you, if you want to bring the Czech Republic into war, go ahead and don't drag other citizens there! Don't drag us into war! Crazy fools! It's not normal, this. This isn't our war. Don't scare people anymore. We are not at war as Prime Minister Petr Fiala lied here last spring that the Czech Republic is said to be at war. Don't lie! Don't let them scare us! Don't let him split up the company! Don't let them spread their hate! We're not at war. Don't let anyone drag us into the war of two post-Soviet republics! In addition to the civil war. There are clear features of civil war. That means, I'm telling you, don't scare us and give money to our people. Don't steal from seniors. Don't steal from those 3.5 million people. And it's not true what some government politicians are saying that this valorisation legal mechanism didn't count on high inflation. Now, I just saw a government MP here whose name I don't know, but he's standing right here at my right, knocking on his head when I was talking about not stealing from 3.5 million pensioners. I'm knocking on my head again why you're stealing from 3.5 million retirees. [[10.20 hours]] Here you can see how arrogant the five-wheelers who, if I'm defending 3.5 million pensioners here, are still knocking on their heads because they want to rob them, rob them as quickly as possible, and put them in their own pockets. Because this member of the government coalition, whose name I don't know, also voted to raise his own salary from 1. 1. Just like his colleagues. Absolutely. Yes, he's nodding, he's voted. So this is the government's five-calice policy, Petr Fiala. A mockery in the face of all citizens. On the contrary. Counting... and vice versa. Here, about the inflation. So he, the original valorisation law mechanism, counted on any inflation. Above all, it was deliberately designed to ensure that pension recipients in large numbers would not become clients of social welfare institutions, but that their income would be sufficient for a dignified life, because they worked it out and prepaid it in their lives. Therefore, there is no valid reason to change this mechanism. The valorisation mechanism, as I was saying, is here to protect the elderly from falling into poverty, but you're disturbing it, you're interfering with the mechanism that's set up, so you're disturbing it, and you want to change it now by law, so you can reduce the valorization by an average of CZK 1,000 a month per pensioner. And as I say, that's totally unacceptable to the SPD, which is why I've been working my ass off here for the fourth day, and I'm defending the law from being passed. Of course, there has already been a discussion in this regard. I wonder what President Petr Pavel will do because he is supported by the Fialův Government's five-calice. He, I hope, and I call on him to reject this bill of yours, to reject it, to veto it when I say it exactly. To veto it. And here we will see exactly what side President Petr Pavel is on. If there are 3.5 million Czech pension recipients on the side, or if they are on the side of robbing 3.5 million Czech pension recipients. Yeah, he was talking about that, so I'm curious. Of course, in case he vetoes it, you won't be able to accept the law, which is important that I explain to the public, because time is pushing you, which means if he vetoes it, you won't be able to put it in time for the Collection of Laws, apparently. And of course it would fall under the table. So President Petr Pavel has it in his hands, especially if he vetoed it within the deadline he has until that last date, it would basically... in my opinion, it wouldn't be possible to put it logically into the Collection of Laws, and that would make it fall under the table. And seniors would get more money. And it would support the SPD's battle for 3.5 million pensioners. But at this point, I have an unfortunate feeling that President Petr Pavel will go to the Fialův Government and support the robbery of 3.5 million pensioners, which would, of course, be a heavy blow to 3.5 million citizens. And I call on President Petr Pavel once again, if the government pushes it through here, the law, and, as I say, it's the fourth day of the fight, here 20 SPD MPs are fighting with all their strength against 108 members of the government's five-wheeler. That's a huge outnumber against us. But like I said, I'm gonna leave all my powers here, and I'm gonna fight my ass off for the 3.5 million pension recipients, and that's what I'm doing. So... Of course, the president, Petr Pavel, in case this gets through and passes through the Senate. Because in the Senate, the government's five-calice majority is the result of democratic elections, so, of course, President Petr Pavel would be the instance. So I wonder what he'll do. But again, I guess there's a deal, a deal to rob 3.5 million pension recipients. But on the basis of my call, for example, because Petr Pavel did not comment, I would have expected the President to say long ago that he would be on the side of 3.5 million pensioners so that the government would not rob them, limp them, wait. That's really awful about this crucial thing, too, which means the President of Taiwan's phone call doesn't work, he'll do it right away. In contacting Ukraine, he does not piano, he does it now, but in protecting 3.5 million pensioners he launders. We're waiting to see if it's in or out. That's awful. Horrible. After all, these are things where compromises cannot be made, where the SPD considers that it is impossible to retreat. Here we would expect a clear defending of a third to side with a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic against the government of Petr Fiala. Well, then I'm really curious to see how it's going to be, because here, of course, it's the last instance. And I made the call to the new president very clear here. And, of course, if there is a veto, it goes back to the Chamber of Deputies. That way, of course, you wouldn't be able to vote for it, and it wouldn't be able to make it in the Collection of Laws, because it has to be in March. And then, of course, the law would never come into force again, and you wouldn't be able to rob those retired people of the valorization. So, of course, this is also an important moment that I wanted to mention here, and I think it's going to come out clearly here. It'll be obvious who's on whose side and how he thinks. I'm curious. I'm curious. In this context, therefore, when I move forward with my speech, there is no way to accept the government's assurance that this is a one-off measure in relation to pension valorisation, given that - perhaps surprisingly - high inflation continues to exist for the government. And the situation in 2022 could happen again. As regards the conflict between government proposed legislation and constitutional order and the question of the legitimate expectations of pensioners in relation to the amount of extraordinary valorisation, it is essential that all the decisive facts which give rise to the government's obligation to implement its regulation to increase pensions have long ago occurred, and it is thus known since when and by what amounts pensions are to be increased. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL still completely contradicts the fact that, at a distance of about 14 days in response to the financial impact of legal regulation, which the state budget allegedly does not count on, so I have already commented, the legal conditions want to change back. At the same time, we all know that the retroactivity of legislation, according to the constant case law of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, is inadmissible. Well, if I can see it right, Minister Marian Jurečka isn't here either. Minister Marian Jurečka is not here. So he doesn't give a shit anymore. I'm saying some serious things here as chairman of one of the two opposition parties. He doesn't give a shit, he's already gone, he's patronizing all seniors. So you're here to rob and half a million old people, and he's gone anyway, and the government MPs here show me that there's a minister of education Balaš who has absolutely nothing to do with it, only that he's part of the government and he supports it, but Minister Jurečka is presenting it here. So he's already left the O.R. Why would he listen to that? I mean, he's already determined when you decide to rob seniors, so he's not gonna listen to Okamura here protecting those retired people. That's Minister Jurečka, that's his attitude, that's what it is. And I also noticed, by the way, that every time I go to talk, even though Minister Jurečka's place is here to be in camera footage, he always sits out of the picture when I speak and goes to either the edge or to the bench so he can't be confronted with his appalling suggestions. [[at the rapporteur's table]] I've already noticed that repeatedly, and we've all noticed that. So instead of sitting here and seeing the public's exact reaction to my performance in that shot, he's always gonna sit around cowardly so he can't be confronted with his horrible propositions. [[10.30 hours]] I've noticed that repeatedly. And you all have to admit that. He always sits away. So it's not a guy when I say the words of your ex-ponent of your government coalition, even if former Prime Minister Topolánek of the ODS doesn't have the guts to stand up for himself. Once again, I'm not vulgar, that's your Prime Minister's expression, the ODS's exhibitor, isn't it? So that's one thing. I could look in the eye, I don't have a problem with it, I'm not afraid of what I'm saying, or I stand by my words. Someone probably doesn't have the nerve to defend themselves by suggesting that 3.5 million seniors be robbed. That's ridiculous. Instead of sitting right a meter away from me, it's so typical, some guys just retreat, avoid. But that's not my case. So, instead of issuing an implementing regulation within the relevant period, the government was obliged to increase the percentage of the old-age pension by a legal amount, it is attempting to make a dedicated and retroactive amendment to the law under which it is to proceed in this increase in pensions, by brutally reducing the increase in the percentage of the statutory pension from 11.5 % to 2,3 % and 400 CZK. By the way, who among the government MPs who weren't here in the last parliamentary term happens to ask why I speak so personally about Master Jureček, so remind each other of the incredibly vulgar, vulgar statements, or inadequate statements, that he would often have me here, that then the whole House here... turned against the vile ones he said about me, and he had to publicly apologize to me in a moment. So this guy doesn't know how to behave, and of course I'm not gonna take it. Who goes beyond, who in a personal way calls me brazen here and swears about me in a personal way... Political duel is fine, opinional. So just to explain how it's called into the woods, so it's called out of the woods. And I say who's gonna lead a political battle here, even tough, but on a political level, that's okay, but on a personal level, I'm not really gonna let myself be bullied here. And whoever starts, I'm just not gonna shut up about it, no way. So I guess that's another way for Minister Jurečka. I've never said anything about him on a personal level until then, of course, but not ever since. I don't give a damn about it. I'm interested in political action. I am interested in the political actions of ministers and the political proposals of the government and the programme duel, and that is to promote the SPD programme. With the government proposal... The government robs all pensioners with a monthly pension of over CZK 8,000, which is absolutely terrible. This is just a definitive stamp on the sociability of the Fialův Government, which is unprecedented. What's the government saying, what's the signal? That a monthly pension of CZK 1,000, for example, is considered to be quite sufficient, and it is not necessary to valorize it according to the law? This means that a monthly pension of, for example, CZK 10,000, now I don't know if I said it right, so I'd rather repeat myself, consider the government to be absolutely sufficient and there's no need to valorize it by law? For example, a person who has a pension of CZK 9,000 a month has a comfortable financial reserve, called us the government, and can reduce himself and contribute to the Fialův Government's failure to reduce the state budget deficit. Because you're basically reducing the valorization, yes, to all pensioners from CZK 8,000 higher. It's unbelievable completely. This is unbelievable. You guys have completely broken off from reality? Moreover, the government argues mainly that a legal increase in valuation would increase the budget deficit and state debt. In addition to the government's dilettanteism, which didn't count on the means of legal valorisation in the draft budget at all, they didn't count on it at all, it all makes the impression that pensions and pensioners are the only and from the point of view of the Fialův Government, the whole, the way you're putting it here, it makes the impression that, from the point of view of the Fialův Government, pensioners are the only and the main culprit of the state's debt. And that old-age, disability and survivors' pensions are the only budget item that can be cut and cut. That's what that means. That's what you're suggesting. I think, of course, we fundamentally disagree with the SPD that you cut and cut disability, survivors' and old-age pensions because your government is Petr Fiala's culprit of debt. Your dilettanteism, your priorities, where you spend tens of billions abroad instead of taking care of our citizens. And you even brag about it. It says more about the government than anything else. You are willing and capable, and you are literally enjoying it when I see you rushing to approve a change of law. You guys have been making a hard announcement in a legislative emergency because you're in a hurry to rob the elderly as fast as you can. Your government only wants to save on defenseless, old and ill citizens who have contributed their work to the state budget in total for their lives by hundreds of billions of crowns. However, dozens of absolutely unnecessary items, their reimbursement does not impose any law on you. And such items as those political nonprofits and others are a sacred cow to you. Shame on you! I repeat, the pensioners are already entitled to valorisation under the applicable legal rules. No later than 10 February 2023, on the date of notification of the data on current inflation by the Czech Structural Office, but in fact already on 31 January 2023, the date of expiry of the relevant period. The government argues that there is a risk of significant economic damage. In itself, it is striking that the politicians of the five-calice Prime Minister Fiala consider raising pensions for our seniors, disabled people, widowed citizens and orphans as damage, which is offensive. Moreover, this is a difference of 19 billion, which is quite negligible in the context of the entire budget, when, because of your government, the budget deficit will only be around 300 billion this year. Let the government save elsewhere, on unnecessary expenses, on payments abroad, on subsidies to private entities and non-profit organizations, on a purely political agenda, on operating expenses to the government and so on. I've already talked about this. And so on and so forth. And not on defenseless people who have worked honestly for the Czech state all their lives or are seriously ill. And then, why are we just talking about outputs and the level of valorization? After all, this coin has two sides, with inflation growth the fundamental and primary and the most important. But I'd like to return to the Department of Labour and Social Affairs shortly. That's what we learned yesterday. Minister Jurečka at the Ministry advises six people paid, who even accumulate functions. So, Minister Jurečka, are they so incompetent, as we know, or are they still political newsrooms for your folk buddies? Six folks were stabbed as advisor by Minister Jurečka at the Ministry. So, of course, the reason is that you don't know which beats, that's for sure. Because six people's advisors paid out of accumulated functions, they're paid out of other government offices. [[10.40 hours]] Of course, I see a political dimension in this, because, as you know, there's a lot of nervousness in KDU-ČSL about you. Of course, I know people in KDU-ČSL, you know that. And a lot of people don't want you, Minister Jurečka, as chairman of the KDU-ČSL. And you know that they don't want to, because you've knocked down preferences from the optional side to completely non-choiceable, below 5%, and you push them further down, which means they don't want you in KDU-ČSL anymore, they don't want you to be chairman. I don't say everyone, but I'm sure part of it is, I know about it. That's why, in my opinion, you're doing this, which is once again the dirtiest and worst thing you can do, is that you're giving those parties you've got, those influential parties who decide your political future in KDU-ČSL, so you're giving them public money paid to tobacco. That means you're going to let everyone's money pay you to vote in exchange for it when the KDU-ČSL President is voted again. You're actually bribing them with public money in my opinion. And I think I'm right that the folks have always done it in a similar way, not only folks, but you're experts all the time, that you're actually giving it away hard, and not only there, I have to say, political trades for those influential folks, who then, of course, decide who the chairman of the KDU-ČSL will be. So you're using directly flagrantly public money. By the way, that is one of the reasons why, in my opinion, you have so many people's advisors and people's groups. Specifically, you already have six folklore advisors and others besides the ones you pay. So this is the situation at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs for leading Marian Jurečka. Why am I talking about this? Because for your political traders and for your political exponents you have money and full sips of it you suck it for KDU-ČSL, but you don't have it for seniors. You do, but you don't want to give the elderly. And not only do you not want to give. You're even making a proposal here on behalf of the government, of course, so it's not just up to you, on behalf of the entire government, but as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you're making a proposal here that you're stealing from 3.5 million pension recipients. So I was gonna put it in the opposite direction. You were just pointing at me. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has put me on the stand because you're off camera because you don't want to sit in your seat here, here, here you have the space, here in the camera shot you have the space, here you were supposed to gesture, here you were supposed to gesture and here you were supposed to point out what you were pointing at me when I said you were robbing that you were suggesting to rob 3.5 million retirees. This is where you were supposed to show it to the public, how you simply despise those 3.5 million pensioners. The minister here was just pointing at me like that when I said you were taking seniors, and it's just bullshit to you. So I'd rather show it here when you don't have the guts to sit here in your place for me so you can point it directly to the camera. But, of course, I'm going to reproduce it here. I say that the government fights a severe price increase, it has the tools to do so, and that it does not cause inflation to rise to the war in Ukraine. It's not true. Again, because the minister wasn't here before. If you, Minister, hadn't talked about me openly in the last parliamentary term... disrespectfully and what you were saying about me here in the House, which is why you had to apologize to me on the microphone, I'd rather focus on the programming and political level. So if you're gestured here right now, it's all your fault. And all I can recommend is that we engage in a substantive and calmly harsh political battle over programme priorities and proposals in mutual discussions. But if you just leave the personal plane out of it, I'm leaving it out of it, too, but I'd say, politely speaking, I'm not just gonna keep pooping on my head here. No way. Because I'm defending the entire SPD and this ridicule you've been doing here the last time, mocking at all costs, so I'm really not gonna take it for granted. If anyone's upset about what I'm saying, then he shouldn't start with what he's saying about me, and because, of course, I'm not gonna take it as a guy, that's understandable. And that's true even if you attack, and that's what the people's experts are in, and other politicians are attacking other people here, the SPD and other people. And I will always defend the SPD, our voters, our members and all decent citizens. That means let's move on. According to official data for January this year, monthly inflation growth in the Czech Republic was the highest of all European countries, all the others had it below 2%. The price level has even fallen many times. The key parameter in our ongoing pension system is the number of payers, i.e. the number of active employees and tradesmen taking pension insurance. Our priority, the priority of the SPD, is therefore an increase in birth rate. Of course, birth rates in decent families, not inadaptable ones, that's understandable. We, as the SPD, specifically support young working families, working families with children and working families with lower incomes. We propose the introduction of beneficial marital loans for working families with a significant reduction in the amount paid always after the birth of the child, and provide a contribution to mortgage payments to families at a time when one of the parents is caring for the child on parental leave. We also propose to significantly increase the tax advantage on children to double in the first, the second child in the family and to four times in the third and each other's children. We want to increase the birth rate to the first and second children and give birth rates to the third and every other child born. Parental allowance is necessary, and we have proposed it repeatedly, regularly increase. The government is blocking it. It's not capable of presenting its own proposal. And you're also considering taking away the families where they take care of the smallest children, canceling the discount on the wife and husband. Another matter of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka. But the truth is the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura are also talking about it. Of course, we disagree. You basically want to rob all groups of people of money because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs himself and President of KDU-ČSL Jurečka in an interview for News said that you want to increase the taxation of all natural persons, which means all working people in the Czech Republic. Well, that's a terrible situation. You agreed on your own money, increased your salaries, gave your fellow political dealers public money. And where do you get it from? You will tax all citizens of the Czech Republic. And Minister Jurečka himself said, I remember, your interview for News. It was December. So you said to increase the tax on all natural persons and property tax. And now we know in what context you said that. That means robbing a pensioner with an average of CZK 1,000. A number of pensioners, pension recipients, maybe they live in their properties in the countryside, they're just getting along financially right now. And you're gonna take their money, and you're gonna raise the property tax to get it all over the pavement. There's no way out. That's KDU-ČSL policy and the five-calice government. That's awful. And I think the math is pretty clear because for a pensioner who needs 80, 85, 90 years of age, he can't earn money anywhere, he doesn't have the power logically, so he's fully dependent on the pension he's entitled to. And if you raise the property tax and lower the valorization... And you're talking about an increase in VAT, and the consumption basket of the senior is different from the consumer basket of a working-age person, because there's a much larger ratio of medicines, but you'd also increase the drug, because the drugs are also at the reduced VAT rate you want to increase. Well, then, you've really sent more and more hundreds of thousands of pensioners to the pavement, to an unsolvable situation. [[10.50 hours]] I'm gonna remind you of the story on Prima TV, which was very sad, but thank you for the Prima TV, because as there was this story with that senior woman who's been doing accountants all her life... not even a lady who basically did an accountant, and basically she's quite certainly experienced in those forms, so she cried in the report, she didn't know how to actually apply for that huge complexity. She doesn't know how to actually apply for some social support, and besides, she found it humiliating. Logically. After a lifetime of work, send a senior, an 80-year-old, to benefits. That's, that's really freaky from the government! Otherwise, from our point of view, from the point of view of the SPD, other pro-family measures are also needed. For example, public pre-school care facilities must, in our opinion, be financed from public resources and be available throughout the national territory. The introduction of a reduced working week or part-time allowance for parents of pre-school children for full pay, where the difference in wage costs would be paid by the State to private employers. Significant contributions to school supplies, rings and meals. The pressure of the state to increase in the European context of senselessly low Czech wages is also very important. Although the productivity of our employees is comparable to the European West. After all, some trade unionists from škodovka from Mladá Boleslav are rightly complaining about this here. And I understand that they do not like that the profits that Škodovka has are increasing wages in Germany, Wolfsburg, rather than increasing workers' salaries in the Czech Republic. So this is the system, the system of how it is here within the European Union, it is the system of the European Union, basically making money out of the Czech Republic at the expense of our Republic and our citizens. And, of course, we don't agree with this, with this system. In our view, the state must strive to increase these senselessly low wages. 'Cause 30 years after the Velvet Revolution, and there's still one-third of the salaries here than in developed Western countries. The government's not working on it. And the state must strive to increase those low wages, for example by raising minimum wages and guaranteed wages. Of course, raising minimum wages in such a way that it does not endanger employment again. This is important to say, of course, especially in those low-income groups of citizens and in those manual professions, but that is what we have been saying from the start. It is only by doing so that we will naturally achieve a higher collection of pension insurance without increasing its percentage, which we in the SPD reject. And, of course, the state must check the most places where pension contributions are most escaped, employment agencies, work black, and not increase contributions to real and honest businessmen. Well, she and the black job have their reasons, because the government doesn't handle executions. The SPD is the only party that proposes nationalisation of executors. Because the system is out of control because of the governments so far, of course, many citizens then have nothing left to do in this draconian system but work black. And I think it should be the task of the state to adjust the system so that the debtor gets... sorry that the creditor gets his money, at the same time the debtor wasn't so skinned that in the finals, it's causing the state even more damage to both social benefits and, of course, to the fact that then the contributions are missing. But we've been saying this all along, and it's like playing the wall. And not to increase the government's contributions to honest businessmen and our workers, workers working in the Czech Republic. Well, the government, as we know, wants to increase the tradesmen's fees, and it wants to cut down the tradesmen. I don't have an up-to-date number right now, but when I talked about it in the House, it was about a year two, so there were about a million holders of trade certificates. And you want to cut them all up, too, you want to touch their money. In order to send you back to Ukraine, you have already sent 50 billion and now you want to rob everyone in the Czech Republic. That is why I am not surprised that citizens call the Fialův Government the "Ukrainian Government" and that they call the Prime Fial the "Ukrainian Prime Minister." I don't blame you at all, because they're facts. And basically, I even fully understand citizens in this, in this nickname they give to the government and Prime Minister Fial. Citizens have simply sensed that you are not a government for Czech citizens. You are the government for your own pockets and for foreign interests. So when I read the Internet, they say you're either a sold-out government, but I have to say, even if it's a pretty strong word, but thousands of people already write it, they say you're a treasonous government. And I must say - and that it is a treasonous government five-calice, because you do not defend the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. You want to rob the promised money and, at the expense of the citizens of the Czech Republic, you send money abroad all the time. So, yes, the "national" term is basically distinctive. So... and in your opinion, the pension system must be fully... By the way, those who act treasonously are treasonous, of course. In our opinion, the pension system must be fully guaranteed by the State solely by means of its ongoing financing. It is unacceptable for us to introduce any form of compulsory contributions to private pension funds. And I'm saying again about what I just said, it's the citizens' opinions, so that somebody doesn't push it around again, that maybe Okamura's making up some kind of a line here. No, look at the Internet, for example, look at the discussions, my profiles, and this is followed by almost half a million Czech citizens on my social profiles, so that is quite a big cross-section. It's not that it's written by a citizen. That's what thousands of people say. But not at one time, thousands and thousands of people still write that. So me, because I'm... I'm here representing citizens and our voters, which is why I had to tell you what the citizens of the ranks at least think, some of the SPD voters, but maybe the voters of other parties. On the contrary, what the SPD prefers and wants is significant state support for various forms of old age insurance outside the classic pension system. For example, support for voluntary pension insurance, life insurance, building savings, etc. In turn, the Fialův government is going the other way, and it intends to reduce this support forcefully. Which, of course, weakens people's willingness and motivation to ensure their old age. For the SPD movement, any increase in the limit for entitlement to an old-age pension is absolutely unacceptable. On the contrary, we demand that it be maintained for 65 years or, if necessary, a reduction. We refuse to allow Czech citizens to be forced to work under difficult conditions up to a very old age at the expense of deserved rest. Well, how does the Fialův government feel about that? The Fialův Government openly proposes to increase the age of retirement for Czech citizens to 68 years. Sixty-eight years! Which would be the highest retirement age in Europe. Can I just ask? You guys can talk, but just... 'Cause if it's... not cool, thank you. There. So now you want me not to lose the thread - your proposal is to increase the retirement age, and it has already been heard by the entire media space for 68 years. And the SPD doesn't agree with that. Because that would be the highest retirement age in all of Europe. So this is what the Fialův government is doing. You're really dragging us to the worst countries. But how are people supposed to look for jobs when they're 68 years old, like when they work in a manual profession? [[11.00 hours]] Well, Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, President of the House and TOP 09, said a month ago at the Prima Party, arrogantly replied, but people may not be in one job their whole lives. Well, how are they supposed to...? Well, that's crazy! So, according to Mrs Pekarová, it's probably easy to find another job at 68 for a manual worker, like a lifelong manual worker, another job. She's crazy, it's not normal, this antisocial expression by the President, Chairman of the TOP 09, the Government Party, the second highest constitutional official of the Czech Republic, the President of the House! That's crazy completely. Well, we just don't agree with it. And my opinion is that Mrs Pekarová Adamová shouldn't be president of the House at all. Because if someone is causing damage to the Czech Republic, it is it, its expression and its damage to Czech citizens. And I think it's really over the line, the way she talks against people, against citizens. So this expression, like that people are supposed to go looking for another job in '68 and all that, so it really corresponds to extreme expressions. That is what I consider to be an expression of an extremist, a political extremist, and Mrs Pekarová certainly is. Because this is what she can leak out of her mouth, it's an incredible thing. And let's get back as close as we can to the bill. One of the key arguments for us is that, while the overall life span is slowly increasing, the so-called life expectancy in health has remained practically the same for about 50 years. In men, life expectancy in health is now 61 years and 62 years in women. As can be seen from the information provided by the Czech Statistical Office and the Ministry of Health, this means that the current limit of 65 years of age for retirement is high. And any consideration about its further increase is just another cynical and antisocial ruthlessness towards Czech citizens by the current Five Coalition Government, which is still unable to prepare and approve long-term deferred pension reform. Consider another important matter. In addition to the age of 65, anyone who wants to receive an old-age pension must fulfil a second condition, which is 35 years of pension insurance. If he doesn't, he'll retire later. I add this to the senseless idea of Minister Jurečka from KDU-ČSL set the age of retirement to different levels according to profession, length of study and so on. This is simply unacceptable. And we in the SPD consider the massive support of those citizens who voluntarily choose to work even after they reach retirement age. For example, in our view, both income taxes and health insurance should be completely forgiven. And whoever voluntarily decides to postpone the payment of an old-age pension should not pay any contributions at all. As a gross wage, it should be equal to a net wage. These are some SPD pension reform points at random, and we have a lot more prepared. So it's just for those who ask what SPD proposals are, and I've already said quite a lot of them. But one thing isn't in them, and it never will be in our designs. Any idea that we would rob our pensioners of the money they rightfully own, like you intend to do. So once again, the SPD movement strongly protests against the plan of the Fialův government five-wheeler to rob 3.5 million Czech pension recipients. We strongly object to the fact that you want to rob beneficiaries of old-age, disability, widows, orphans' pensions about the law on valorisation. And again, in the opinion of the SPD, it is contrary to the constitution and to all the principles of decency and morality. You only do this so that your government will account for the expenses that your government throws out of national ruins to send arms and various interests abroad, to wage war, to promote economic migrants, to censorship, to parasitic political nonprofits and to dozens of others, not unnecessary, but often very harmful and bad things. As I announced last Tuesday and last week, the SPD movement has done its utmost to prevent the adoption of a government anti-constitutional bill aimed at robbing our pensioners. And we'll file a constitutional complaint. We are preparing a constitutional complaint, but as you know, we can only file it if we are accompanied by ANO members to sign our constitutional complaint, because we need 40 signatures of Members to file a constitutional complaint, there are only 20 of us in the SPD. The SPD movement will prepare the constitutional complaint. We invited the YES movement to join us in signing a constitutional complaint. The YES movement said they'd get it themselves, that they wouldn't connect the signatures. Yes, they have the signatures, because the MPs are 72. But I am convinced that we should work with the other opposition party to defend the elderly. That we should pull together, because the goal must not be politics. So this is what I wanted to call on colleagues from the ANO movement to file this constitutional complaint together and not to politicize. Since it is necessary, and the public is expecting it, and I call upon it quite rightly in all decency, we should pull together so that the appeal to the Constitutional Court is as strong as possible. If two opposition parties put it together, and we cannot put it ourselves, because we do not have the number of Members, then surely the Constitutional Court, as one of many things, can take into account that together we represent 2 million voters! And more. As far as our constituents are concerned. But the appeal could be even stronger. And it's the SPD thing. We want this constitutional complaint, if the government pushes this place to succeed. So I would like to call on the YES movement not to politicize as far as possible, and let's file it, the constitutional complaint, together, because we can't file it without you. Although we were the first to say it in the media that we wanted to do it, you said it immediately, but this isn't about who's first, second, here about it - we want to work with you, we're just two opposition parties here, protecting us from robbing those 3.5 million pension recipients. So that's what I wanted to appeal to you, too, to your colleagues from the YES movement, let's file the constitutional complaint together, please, together, and pull together in favour of all the 3.5 million pension recipients. And we're ready for that, for the cooperation. So I call on President Andrej Babiš not to be a solitaire, but to join us on the side of the 3.5 million pensioners and to file the constitutional complaint together. So here I'm calling Prime Minister Andrea Babiš, and I'm curious to see how he's going to stand up to it. Whether he wants us to work together to fight for those 3.5 million retired people. Because with this constitutional complaint, I repeat again, it is important, in my opinion, that the appeal should be as common as possible. So that the Constitutional Court has reason to meet us and this law... so that we can use every possibility of this law so that the government law can be abolished to rob 3.5 million pensioners. So I hereby call on the President of the Andrej Babiš movement to cooperate on this matter and not be a solitaire, in the interests of the citizens. Of course, if he refuses, we won't do anything about it as an SPD, because we only have 20 MPs. We can't file a constitutional complaint alone. But it's gonna be a bad signal, a bad signal to the public. The SPD is trying to pull together, but it would mean that the chairman of the Andrej Babiš movement does not want to cooperate and does not want to pull together to protect 3.5 million pension recipients. So, of course, I am well-meaning, and I hope that this appeal and this challenge of mine will be met by the Chairman of the YES movement. [[11.10 hours]] Otherwise, I know we're different political parties. I know we have that there are different voters. That means everyone can target different voters. But here we all aim together to protect 3.5 million decent people. And that constitutional complaint should be as important as possible. I'm just completely convinced of it. And I know that there are a number of Members who would like to work together on this particular matter, and certainly not just on this particular matter, precisely for the interest of citizens. Because citizens aren't expecting any politicians right now, citizens are expecting two opposition parties for them, where we can work together, where the appeal can be stronger together, so that we can protect those 3.5 million pensioners, so that we can do it together. And I'm helpful, I'm constructive. We for the SPD are ready to pull this one rope, because this is a third of the citizens of the Czech Republic who the government of Petr Fiala wants to rob for pensions. So, of course, as I was saying, and we're already here on the fourth day, so we want to, we're simply blocking the approval of Petr Fiala's antisocial proposal, the reign of Petr Fiala, by all legal means available. And we will continue to do so today, of course. In my opinion, it is simply a shameful attack by the government on one of our fellow citizens' most socially threatened groups. It's an insidious attack on people who worked honestly for decades, it's an insidious attack on people who paid taxes and compulsory insurance. This is from the Fialův Government's insidious attack on people who are disabled, widowed citizens and orphans. And the SPD will never allow you to go against these people. On the contrary, the SPD is on the side of these citizens. As I have already indicated, the Government's procedure is, in our opinion and in the opinion of many legal experts, contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. First, they change the conditions for raising pensions back after they have been legally established. Secondly, in our view, the Government's procedure is also contrary to the Constitution because you want to approve this proposal here in a short-term meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in a state of legislative emergency, which is reserved only for emergencies such as large-scale natural disasters, epidemics, threats to the security of the country or imminent economic damage. None of it happened. And the government had information on the assumption of inflation for this year already at the time of the approval of the state budget for this year, which is why it should have included these expenditure in the budget at that time. But that did not happen. The Fialův government is now arguing threatening economic damage, but the government's five-calice itself has caused its incompetence and inactivity since the beginning of government. And for the victims of your reign, you have now taken all the pension recipients. That's disgusting on the part of the government. So, as I was saying, we are prepared to bring an action against this law before the Constitutional Court. Tens of billions of crowns on current pension valorization can be found very quickly by reducing overpriced military purchases from abroad, payments to the European Union or Ukraine. Government also enormously increased revenue in connection with higher collection of indirect taxes due to unmanaged inflation, government unmanaged inflation. Your revenue has risen, your revenue has increased by CZK 137 billion, which you have not directed to our citizens in need. So you chose VAT, especially VAT, you raised CZK 137 billion more because of the cost you caused yourself, and now you're saying you don't have $19 billion to valorize pensions. Well, that's an incredible spit in the face of 3.5 million pension recipients in the Czech Republic. Well, and the SPD movement, as I say, we will defend and defend here from Tuesday's adoption of this antisocial government bill aimed at robbing our pensioners with all our strength. As I said, we are also making more than a hundred amendments to it that would ensure our pensioners such an increase in pensions to which they are legally entitled and morally entitled. The SPD is firmly behind all pension recipients. I would therefore now comment on my amendments. I specifically tabled five amendments. I'm still going to sign up for them in a detailed debate, of course, so we're... in a detailed debate, yes. So here I will sign up for my amendments and report to the Houses of Documents 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002. So it is the five amendments that I am applying to. Well, now, of course, I'd like to give them a brief explanation. So I propose an increase in the fixed amount by which pensions would increase, from the government's proposed CZK 400 to CZK 1,415 to 1 419, that is in my amendments, so by 1 415, 1 416, 1 417, 1 418 and 1 419 CZK. So, in short, why am I doing this? Because I'm returning the money that the old man wants to steal from the Fialův government, so I'm going back to the valorization that the seniors are supposed to get, so I'm going back. And, of course, my proposal will also greatly help low-income pensioners, but all pensioners. And my proposal, or the SPD proposals that my colleagues are giving, including my proposal, to the elderly, a little bit more than the current proposal... Sorry, before the current proposal... Sorry again than the current law that you want to change so you can rob the elderly. And, of course, I'm giving these pensioners even more than your government proposal, because you want to rob 1,000 crowns on average there, so that's totally unacceptable. So I'm putting it back so that senior citizens get what they've got, what they've got to get all the pension recipients, and I'm also helping out more of the low-income pension recipients. So, like I said, this guy... So when I look at the justification for my amendments, it is essentially the same for all five, but the amount is changing. But I've already talked about that. So the government's proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which the Purple Government ex post, i.e. retroactively, i.e. with retroactive effect, changes the conditions of June's extraordinary valorisation of all types of pensions, is, in addition to the obvious conflict with constitutional principles, so it is grossly antisocial, your proposal. Your proposal is grossly antisocial. You financially damage all pension recipients with monthly pensions above CZK 8,000, and then you damage the average pensioner, or you rob him of CZK 1,010 a month compared to that statutory valuation. This is particularly unbearable, socially-economically liquidation measures by the Fialův Government, at the time of the astronomical expensiveness of all of them for pensioners of the key cost of living. [[11.20 hours]] Under the law in force and effective, an extraordinary June valuation was to take place in the form of an increase of 11.5 % in the merit component of pensions. One of the ways in which this situation is achieved is to maintain the valorization that the pensioners are promised and that you want to rob them of - and one of the ways in which to achieve this state is in addition to not approving the government amendment, which is why I am here all the time, and I am trying to delay the vote with all my strength, so that you do not accept the law, but, as I say, a huge number of 108 government MPs outnumber us in the SPD is only 20, but we are fighting with all our strength, even though we are outnumbered by government MPs against us is almost six to one, six to one. That's outnumbered by government MPs here, but even though it's six to one and we're in a huge minority, we're fighting our best! We're fighting for 3.5 million retirees at our best against that huge outnumber. And we will fight. And please the public, of course, for support. Support us. Of course, one of the ways to make the pensioners receive the promised money is, in addition to not approving the government amendment, its adjustment, or the adjustment of one of its parameters, namely the amount of fixed financial amount by which pensions will increase from June, which will remain the same for all their beneficiaries, of course, which will preserve the element of merit, because the next component of raising pensions will be the percentage of the pension credit component, which will increase with its growth in nominal terms, and this will help low-income pensioners much more significantly at the same time. Therefore, I propose an increase in the fixed amount of money for which pensions are to be valued by the 415 to 419 crowns still here, so that the pensioners will get in the finals together with the fixed amount of what they have to receive. That means the valorization on average of the CZK 1 770, which is the valorization they should be getting now, and you want to cut it by the thousand. When I return briefly to what I said, that means the political struggle that is here, yes, we are here in a vast minority, we are 20 Members, you 108. Some of you are bitching at me from government MPs. On a personal level, you write on Twitter, on the Internet, government MPs attack me, often dirty. I'm under attack for protecting 3.5 million pensioners here. But I don't mind, I'm gonna keep fighting against you, against the overwhelming majority, even though there are few of us, and here we are in the minority. You can keep swearing to me. Desperately anonymous members of the government coalition mess with me on the Internet because I defend 3.5 million pensioners. But even though I'm a minority, even though I'm a minority, I just won't give up! So that's what I'd like to say. So write down what you want, but we will continue to fight for all pension recipients in the Czech Republic. And I don't mind at all because they're just some desperate screams. Finally, I would like to repeat here, this is my opening proposal, and I will add another one to it that I am making a proposal on behalf of the SPD, and I said it right at the outset, just to remind you, because the President has already changed, yes, that on behalf of the SPD I made a motion to reject this government bill at the outset, so my proposal will be put to the vote here and we will vote in favour of the rejection. And at the same time, I'm making a second proposal because I really can't accept this proposal going through, I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point by 23. 3. 2023, that means a term after which, if we cut it off like this, your law can't go through formally, so we'll have to cover it up. And I ask that the vote be voted without delay. Immediately! And thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u31	Thank you. So I'm registering your motion to dismiss and also a procedural motion to interrupt the point by 23. 3. 2023 to 23 o'clock. Yes, I'm on record. Mr. Dubský, with a counterproposal? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u32	Good morning. Madam President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues, I would like to put forward a counter-proposal. I think this is a wasted long time for us to cut it short. I'd like to make a counterproposal for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u33	So you're giving a procedural motion to interrupt a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u34	Yes, five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u35	Okay, logged. [[Thank you.]] Five minutes. Anyone else? With a counterproposal? [[Yes.]] Mr. Letocha, prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u36	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to table an amendment, or counter-proposal against this proposal made by President Okamura here. I understand that this is a legitimate instrument of the opposition, in this way to obstruct and at the same time to submit these proposals for postponement, and I would therefore like to postpone, counter-proposal, that the meeting should actually be interrupted by 3. 3. 2023, until 11:25 p.m. today. Thank you for your attention, and please...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u37	Order! Friends, please let the MP finish this. I'll ask him. I'll do it right away. You're making a motion to interrupt a point probably, not a meeting because you can't? Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] To interrupt the point until 11 o'clock 25 minutes today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u38	So I'm making a motion to interrupt that point by 3. 3. 2023, today, and 1134 hours. Thank you for your attention and please make this... [[President: Yes, I have a record.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u39	Please, Mrs. Pokorná Jermanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u40	Even when you're aware, Madam Vice-President, that you're gonna yell at me. Please, if you're giving counterproposals, prepare it, because you're presenting unchosen things here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u41	Madam, that was not a counterproposal. But then you do not have the opportunity to speak, because the procedural proposals must be voted on immediately, that is, without debate. So please read it! [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Friends, we have a few suggestions, there are three. First... Yes, just a moment. I'll sign you all out. I'm picking up your application for check-out. Let's take a vote. We will vote first on Mr Letoch's counters, then Mr Dubský, and lastly we will vote on the proposal by President Okamura. I'll ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the number of entries to settle. We would be the first to vote on Mr Letocha's proposal, which proposes that the item be interrupted by 11.34 hours. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 66, 126 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 4, against 81. The motion was denied. [[11.30 hours]] Are we also voting on Mr Dubský's motion to interrupt the point for five minutes? Isn't that right? Yes. Please, I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 67, 126 Members and Members voted in favour of 8, against 70. The motion was denied. We will be the last to vote on President Okamura's motion to suspend the item by 23. 3. 2023 to 23 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number 68, 127 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 35, against 88. The motion was denied. So we're going to continue with a detailed debate, and I have an appointment to do that, if I'm not mistaken... Sorry. Before we give the floor to the detailed debate, with a proper application and priority right, Mrs Levko, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I actually have a factual comment on the contribution made by President Okamura, through you, which we have just heard, because there have been countless times when it said that we are talking about 3.5 million retirees in this amendment. And please nicely, that's not true, I checked the data according to the Czech Statistical Office as of 31. 12. 2022 was 2,844 000 pensions, which includes everything, including survivors' pensions, disability and old age. So I just wanted to set it straight. And there's a lot of numbers going down in this argument, so I'd like to ask that we treat these numbers seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u43	Thank you, Madame. I see you, Prime Minister Okamura. I just want to make sure - Mr. slavík isn't logged in? If you've voted and you've come up with a real one, then turn yourself in. Mr Salvetr is also not factual, so I am erasing. And now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with the facts? Yes. And then President Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u44	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. I'm sure I'd like to respond to the lady who performed here at the moment, and you applauded her. [[The President: through.]] Through Madam President. I think if it's a number, I'm giving it all the time, 2,700,000, so if you think that the number of 2,700,000 seniors that it affects, that it's a small number, and that at this point, you're going to get off and applaud it, I find it completely outrageous. Yes? It affects all seniors. When I see, for example, I apologise, through Madam President, to the Member, as she laughs at it, so I would just like to say to you, Madam President, because I am constantly seeing the way you express myself, for example, I am from the Karlovy Vary Region, from the structurally affected region, the region where the most seniors are represented, so I repeat to all of you once again: if you are saying that the seniors are to be solidarity, let us begin, let us begin with each other. I'm so excited to be here to approve an emergency meeting to freeze politicians' salaries, how you're all gonna raise your hand for this from the right spectrum! As you will agree. I put it in here twice, you didn't raise your hand for it once. And now you get off here, I'm not defending anyone, you can all say it in some way, but you actually said that 2,700,000 people, you practically don't care about those people and those seniors! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now with the factual President Okamura, then Mrs Levko. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u46	So, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a really bizarre situation where a member of the government's STAN, Mrs Levko, has announced to us here that the government coalition is not about to rob 3.5 million pension recipients, but only 2,800,000! Well, that's an incredible situation. Thank you for your clarification, Mrs Levka of the STAN movement, from the government movement where you said: No, no, no, Tomio Okamura did not say exactly, it is not 3.5 million pension recipients we want to rob, but only 2,800,000! It's crazy! How can you even say that? But say what you want. You want to rob 2,800,000 pension recipients of the promised valorization, and you're bragging about it! That's not possible. Thank you for the clarification. The truth is that in my opening speech that I had on Tuesday, so I was talking about 2,800,000, then I read all these different jobs here, there were over 3 million written again, so then of course I specified it, over the $3 million, but you know, it doesn't really matter. Because even if you want to rob 100 of those old people, 200, 300, it's a crazy situation. But that you are at all debating, Mrs Levka of the STAN movement, that the Government Member is at all arguing that you want to rob not 3.5 million, but just 2,800,000 pension recipients, that you are not ashamed! This is an entirely inadequate discussion. You shouldn't rob any pension recipients as government parties. Don't you think so, Mrs Levka? And I'm saying that the SPD is on the side of all the pension recipients, and we're fighting against either of those pension recipients stealing from the promised valorisation. And you're still defending it! You're saying $2,800,000 is probably okay. Why else would you be performing here? It's embarrassing. It's disgusting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u47	Mrs Levko will now make a point of fact, then Mrs Nováková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I promise I'll get off for the last time. But this is a live demagogy. My point of fact wasn't about how many old people we're robbing, how you say that horrible word. It's just that you don't give accurate information. And I like accurate information. You could call it lying, but okay, you explained it was inaccuracies, so thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u49	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Nováková's factual remark, then Mr Letocha's Member. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself am senior, I am chairman of a senior organization - the Association of Christian Seniors. I know what certain reservations the Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic has regarding this legislative proposal, but I have now spent 14 days in direct contact with seniors. The fact that it slows down the pace it adds, and it adds that it slows down, the seniors, unlike some of you, completely understand. And they're in trouble. And the topics they're dealing with are completely different. And seniors are no homogeneous matter, because seniors are simply a sample of society, rich, poor, educated, less educated, those who are interested in public life, and those who are not, and various political opinions. So it's not at all true that you see into the minds of all seniors, whether they're plus minus 100,000 or ten thousand. But I fully agree with you that everyone, every senior, even if there were only ten, so if he finds himself in a situation that really is critical to him, then this must be helped. But that has nothing to do with the proposal we're discussing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr Letocha, with a point of fact, then Mrs Válková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. I would like to stand up for my colleague, Mrs Jarmila Levka, because, President Okamura, through Madam President, this is precisely the demagogy. That's exactly the lie. I've heard from you here several times today what the opposition likes to use, and that we want to steal from pensioners in some way. That's a lie. That's not true. It's true that we're talking about some word-telling, but if we're adding money to someone, even not as much as it should have been in some form, but from that we're changing the law now, we're not stealing from seniors. And if somebody's splitting up the company, that's exactly what they're saying. Because I'm already being approached by the seniors, and they're wondering if they're gonna have the thousand-dollar bill taken from their current pension. And that's not true. If that were true, I might agree with you, but it's not. Adding will be, adding will be gradual and reasonable to the state budget, and that is what we have been trying to do for four days. So, the demagogy you've been using here very intensively for my colleague, don't be mad at me, but you're really overreacting. And I beg you all of the opposition not to use words like stealing from seniors because that's a lie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mrs Válková will now make a point of fact, and Mr Foldyna will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u54	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will not use strong terms because I would not like to be in front of the mandate and immune committee. So I'm gonna tell the truth. But from my colleague, Mrs Nina Nováková, through you, there have been some untruths. I guess you all know that I'm also a senior, and I have regular meetings with seniors in Prague and Central Bohemia. I'm in charge of them. I'm very happy for them. I have information on how they perceive the current situation. You'd be surprised, they're intelligent seniors who know you're taking away what they're legally entitled to by trying to reduce their valorization. And now I'm gonna talk like a lawyer. You know very well - and I will not speak of violations of the Rules of Procedure, which will be the content of our constitutional lawsuit. You know well that they have a certain claim, and you're changing it retroactively! And you hope - and I heard it here yesterday, and I was happy to ask the Member, Dr Haas, by your means, that he would still have to explain it to me, I didn't read the stenograph, he put some hopes in the replacement of constitutional judges, which I do not understand as a lawyer. However, I suppose he stands up for his additional explanation that he meant the unpredictability of the decisions of constitutional judges. I think that there is some settled caselaw of the Constitutional Court, and it leads us in some way. But I couldn't make a de facto comment when I was hearing such untruths. The seniors are afraid, they are rightly afraid, it is a lie you have said here, Mrs Nováková, that they are not afraid. And I'm afraid you're more supportive of those fears than of reducing them! [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mr Foldyna will now speak with de facto, and then Mr Juchelka is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u56	Thank you for your point of view. I very much appreciate my colleague Nina Nováková, we often discuss these positions. You know, I think it must be hard for you to defend it, too, this nonsense. A whole bunch of you guys need to feel like you're just taking the old people's money. You know that! You know. Now you're camouflaging it by setting it up, paying it back, and so on. You used that misleading commercial of Pepek from the Highlands, who runs all over Europe, that he's happy. Please, I can feel it. I know it's hard sometimes, I was also a member of a coalition party, and they forced me to vote for bullshit. Sorry to be so explicit, it's just very unpleasant. You stole a thousand crowns from an old man! You're throwing money at Ukraine, you're voicing yourself for the other loans the European Union wants... [[Coalition MPs are pounding the benches.]] Slap all you want! Just slam it! Hey, hey, hey, hey, Hey, hey, hey, hey, [[- Please calm down!]] Just bang. They're gonna count you guys. You're just lying here like he's printing. And some of you aren't even ashamed of it, and that's just sad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u57	Thank you. Now with Mr Juchelka in fact, Mr Koten will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm just going to follow up on my honored colleague, Mrs. Member, Professor Válková, through you. We don't really care about the retired people who are up for it and who are up against it, we know the way it is here, the different photos on the social media fly with the individual statements. But what we're mainly dealing with here is some kind of state of law. That we have democracy here, that we want us to live in some kind of security of the rule of law, so that when the government decides, it doesn't change our laws retrospectively. Now that it's clear that those old-age people are entitled to something, it's not going to take it away from us backwards and simply from this state, any group of people. That this is not going to happen in the form of when we are using the Emergency Institute here, which you are also doing, and of course it is also in some culture of the House, which you very, very much trample on by the way you bend another law, and that is the Rules of Procedure of the House. And your answer to all three things is, and as I keep saying, and I'm going to keep saying it, your answer is, it's all going to be settled by the Constitutional Court. So we're just irresponsible about the retroactivity that will be solved by the Constitutional Court. We are dealing with a state of legislative emergency here, which is a very marginal matter which is not at all part of the law's discussion, for it will be resolved by the Constitutional Court. And yesterday, when you bent the House's Rules of Procedure, we heard that the Constitutional Court would settle it for you again. And the seniors. I love that when we talk about misinformation, and of course you want to fight misinformation here, all seniors are so fragile, they can't recognize the information, but when it comes to taking a thousand a month, they're all very smart, intelligent and rich. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u59	Thank you. Now, with Mr Koten's point of fact, then Mrs Šafránková. And I'll read the apologies before I give you my word. Benešík Ondřej apologizes from 11.30 to 13.30 - working reasons, Kolovratník Martin the whole day - health reasons, Staněk Pavel the whole day - without giving reason and Bek Mikuláš from 9 to 13 hours and from 15 to 9 for working reasons. And now you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members, I would like to respond here to Mr Letocha, by your means, who said that adding will be slow and responsible, while inflation is brutal and those invoices that go to pensioners, as well as all of us, are brutal, because there has been an increase of hundreds of percent. And while the government coalition here translates that everything is flooded with the sun and we're just waiting for the social security, just like Šafránek said in Poets, so far the energy is up by hundreds of percent, vegetables, fruits and other basic foods are up by tens of percent. As for the bending of the Rules of Procedure. I feel like you've got the wrong date because it's already been on February 25th, and you're a week late, here with the coup you're showing up with regarding the Rules of Procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u61	Thank you. She will now speak with Mrs Šafránková and prepare Minister Jurečka. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I, by your means, must respond to Mr Letocha, who here claims that he is not stealing from the elderly. No, it's not true. Our seniors, disabled people, widows, widowers and orphans created legitimate expectations on 31 January this year and 10 February, respectively, when the Czech Statistical Office announced inflation data. And what happened on February 15th at the press conference? Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government has announced that it will not give 19 billion to our pensioners. So what else is it besides stealing? I still want to draw attention to a few cases. Can you imagine how much it costs to rent a senior in a larger city? Now with energy prices, it takes about 15,000. If he has an average pension, he's taking 19,400, so what's he got left? He'll pay for the drugs, for the groceries. He's got nothing left. He's down. And you only bring them to social services. So please realize it already! Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u63	Thank you, Madame. And with the last de facto report, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u64	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have to respond to what has been said here from the mouth of Tomio Okamura and Mr. Foldyna, through you. Because such a number of lies or incomplete information in the context of half-truth haven't been heard here in the House's attic for a long time. The fact that there were some attacks on my person, above all, I have no need to comment here. And the way I get it, I like to have a beer with some people, and I like to see some people, and I don't like to be in the same room with some people, and I don't want to be in either camera or photograph with some people. But saying here that we are giving and ripping billions of crowns as government to Ukraine is nonsense and a lie. The technology, the equipment and equipment we supply to Ukraine, is fully compensated. Fully compensated by the funds that the Czech Republic will receive from both the budget of the European Union and our allies, such as the United States of America. This is what the Secretary of Defense has repeatedly published, the information is traceable. Don't lie! Do not lie and tell us that we are giving some help here to Ukraine, which subsequently creates that we are not helping Czech citizens. The help of this government towards Czech citizens for the whole of last year is significantly greater than it has ever been in previous years. Yes, there is a crisis, we respond and we help. So forgive these products here. It's an expression of mental wretchedness! Attacking the lowest instincts when you're putting people against each other in this way, and that's when you need to help people who fight for their lives that they're supposed to help. [[applause from the right]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u65	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Mr Foldyna will now speak with the facts and prepare Mrs Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u66	Thank you. So let's go to the half-truths and the half-truths. So look, this year, expenditure of €3 billion is approved for Ukraine from EU funds, which is CZK 75 billion. As you know, the European Union doesn't have a turning machine or a lathe, so the money, the money that it will send to Ukraine, has to be delivered there. And for the Czech Republic it is the amount of CZK 1.5 billion that we have to contribute to the European Union funds, which will finance the war. What are you saying somebody's lying about saying half-truths? You're lying like he's printing!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u67	Thank you. With Mrs Maříková's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, aside from the weapons you claim to be refunded from the European Union worth 40 billion, we have accepted the most refugees in the Czech Republic to the population. We have sent the greatest help from the countries of the European Union. The spending on Ukrainian refugees has reached 28.5 billion since the start of the conflict, of which 20.6 billion has gone from the state budget. I remember how much emotion caused the CZK 5,000 contribution paid as a humanitarian benefit to incoming refugees. No one knew what the property conditions of individual refugees were, whether they were really people who needed it or rich people were coming here. I have nothing against helping people in need. But your colleague Vít Rakušan himself admitted in the media that he doesn't know how many refugees there are. We've been handing out a 5,000-dollar dose per person here, we didn't know if these people were traveling on, going home, or going to another country where they'd get their next donation. So please don't say that we're not helping, we're not giving money to Ukraine. Yes, let us help, but it must never be at the expense of its own citizens. And that's what happens here. We are here taking seniors who are one of the most vulnerable groups, Minister and honourable Member, through Madam President!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u69	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Jurečka, President Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u70	Thank you very much. Well, that's really, like, completely out of control from someone who's a member of the Social Policy Committee. That's really out of line. So I explained it here yesterday and the day before yesterday, and that's why I'm gonna say it again. So we paid out of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for last year in support of the so-called humanitarian benefit of CZK 8,6 billion. Last year, Ukrainian citizens, refugees who work in the Czech Republic, carried over CZK 8 billion into the public health insurance system, social insurance, and taxes. [[unintelligible]] These people fill jobs that have been vacant for a long time, including social and health areas, help improve the quality of services in the Czech Republic as well, and are proven to be greater than what we have provided for them in the framework of helping them in the Czech Republic over a period of two years. These are also public resources that you can look at, traceable. And I'm also happy to mention the specific information that Minister Černochová has been talking about, but I don't think you've been here. As compensation from allies for helping Ukraine, the Czech Republic has already received 15 Leopard 2A4 tanks from Germany and 8 helicopters from the United States and $306 million from the United States. In addition, the EU also compensates for Czech aid from the European Peace Fund, in January it was the first payment of EUR 6.5 million and others will follow. And don't tell me the Czech government sent 40 billion help. You mix here, you deliberately do it, and that part of the technique that went in the framework of standard commercial supplies from Czech companies. These weren't gifts the Czech government would give. So you're deliberately mixing this up, deliberately creating information that isn't true. You know that, but you're lying on purpose!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u71	Thank you. Now with the de facto President Výborný, Mr Ryba will be prepared. Before I give the Prime Minister the floor, I'll read an apology. Josef Kott apologizes from 11:00 to 11:45 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'd like to ask that we stop spreading half-truths, lies to stop dealing with fear here, because that's something that doesn't belong here. And I must say that for some of the statements and some of the words that are spoken in this House, I personally, as a member of this chamber, must be ashamed of myself. Whether these are statements about our Czech citizens or about the Ukrainians. Do you realize, colleagues, that these are the people fleeing the war from the country to which Russian missiles are now and daily falling, the Russian drones? And I have to admit, I'm a guy, I've been through a lot, but I'll admit that in some of the footage from Ukraine on the news of our media, I have tears in my eyes. And you can do these things, help these people, take away their mouths and spread such nonsense here? Please, let's not do this. And I would ask very much, because we are discussing a completely different subject, if we could conclude this chapter, which I think does not honor this House. Let us go back to the detailed debate so that we can somehow reasonably finish the House press 392. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ryba is now on the verdict and then Minister Rakušan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. I'm not gonna be so explosive, I just want to give you the exact pension numbers here. Basically, you're all right, because it depends on what we're counting on. So from the Czech Statistical Office: old-age pensions in the Czech Republic in December 2022 - 2 844 180. But if we take the number of pensions paid, which include widows, orphans and disabled, then unfortunately I don't have December 2022, but I have January, sorry, December 2021, which is a year, but it won't be much different, 3 453 000 and some change. If I include a pensioner living abroad or a pension paid abroad, it's 3 557 960. So I just want to clarify the numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, Minister Rakušan, with the facts, then Mrs Maříková. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, through you, Madam Vice-President, to Mrs Maříková. Do not oppose the help of Czech citizens and help the citizens of Ukraine affected by war. I have one thing to say to you, colleague, I am proud of how the people of the Czech Republic have been able to help in a difficult way. I am proud that the Czech Republic was able to prove where it belongs. I'm proud that people opened their homes, their apartments, their houses, and were able to help people who were affected by war here. You don't know that 75 percent of those who came here were women, women with young children. I don't know if you've ever been to the Regional Assistance Centre to help Ukraine through the Vice-President. I've circled everyone we have in the Republic. I saw the efforts of Czech people to help, and the effort to help was certainly not at the expense of Czech citizens. And remember what you said here sometime last spring. Diseases will spread, the health system will fail, the school system will fail, there will be tent towns, crime will rise, the security situation in the Czech Republic will deteriorate... None of this happened. Stop haunting me. Stop haunting by running out of gas. Stop haunting by the Ukrajinec living here at the expense of Czech people! It's not true. You're lying. You spread hate in this company and it's behind you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u77	Thank you. And now, Mrs Karla Maříková, and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u78	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, I am also proud of Czech citizens, but I am not proud of this government. And yes, if, of course, we have to take a group of citizens like our seniors here, then we need to think about whether the help we have in Ukraine and the Ukrajinec here is beyond measure. If you listened to me, I said I had nothing against helping people in need, but it could never be at the expense of our people. Now that you've opened this place up, and Minister Jurečka, I'm wondering what commitment means to us to... We put those weapons on Ukraine worth 40 billion, what are we going to have to buy? And then I have a question for Minister Jurečka. How many of these people, and I don't mean those Ukrajinec who worked here long before the conflict, but those who came here from Ukraine when the war started, how many of these people are really here now, and how many of them are working now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u79	Thank you for keeping time. With another de facto Member Aleš Juchelka, then Mr Jaroslav Foldyna. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u80	Thank you very much. I'll just be very brief, I'll try to get it back to reality. We were here a few weeks ago approving a law called Lex Ukraine 5, and we were also on the Committee on Social Policy with Minister Jurečka and others discussing how we can control the Ukrajinec property. Finally, we agreed in the amendment that de facto the property would fall away from there for one simple reason. When you run away from the war, you leave the house, you have it today, you don't have it tomorrow, who will appreciate it in any way, you don't have, like, a cadastral statement, I think that's total nonsense. And as for the income that the Ukrajinec have from our work, and those that they have from Ukraine and go to their account, I hope that they will still be collected according to the promise of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the basis of the very agreement between individual banks and ministries in order to unite the individual anabasses. However, today I asked the chairman of the Committee on Social Policy Kaňkovský to include a point on the next committee concerning the current situation at the employment offices, because of course we will want to deal with it, I would say that the scandalous appeal of Mr. CEO of the Office of Labour Najmon and also a new report on the fact that people have stolen millions of crowns on their benefits has failed, which was repeatedly claimed by the Deputy Director of Minister Trpkoš that the digitalisations at the Office of Labour work work work perfectly, fantastically, that they are safe and that the payments of all those humanitarian benefits and solidarity contributions are in order. [[Time.]] That's what we're gonna ask about another committee on social policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u81	Thank you to everyone who keeps time. And now, Mr Jaroslav Foldyna, then Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u82	Thanks for the word. I'll try to keep up the time. So I listened very carefully to the performances, it looks like we're going to be competing for an Oscar in dramatic work, because it was such an interesting performance by the ministers and Mr Jurečka, as well as the Minister of the Interior. You know, you guys act like you're living this conflict. [[Loud and angry.]] But the conflict has been there since 2008. You had a name for those workers who worked here from Ukraine like idiots for years, just a dive. You didn't remember any kids! I had children here in 2014 to 2016 from Kramatorsko, from Donetsk. Here in the House. I helped them travel because they called me - sir, we live in eight-degree bedrooms... Twelve degrees. At that time, when you were supposed to make sure that the Minsk agreements were respected, you turned your back on the whole problem! They're laughing in America tonight, and they're laughing at each other's stomachs. You're arguing with us about some tanks. Well, for that, the Czech retiree won't buy for dinner that the Němec will graciously supply us with tanks. [[- Please.]] Leopards. [[- Please.]] Are you kidding us or what?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u83	Please reduce voice intensity. I will now ask Mr Jiří Mašek, then Mr Radek Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u84	Madam President, colleagues. I don't think that's really part of today's topic. I don't think we should discuss this, but if several coalition representatives, including the Minister, have spoken of the opposition speaking inaccurately, they give inaccurate data, please give accurate data to you. If I have information, and it's finally getting published today, then Leopard came one at the end of the year, so that we can introduce him, another 15 is supposed to be recovering, it's in some way, they're coming. They're old-type tanks, and it certainly isn't an adequate replacement for more than 80 tanks - and I have nothing against the ones that were sent to Ukraine. Why did you keep it a secret for so long? Why aren't people told that? We've sent about 82 70s, over 200 Bévépeks, and that needs to be replaced by something, that needs to be financed somehow. But I wouldn't put this place straight with the fact that it's the money we take from seniors. Let's be fair again. That doesn't belong here. So let's be precise, you guys keep us posted. Until the last moment, you were hiding what was going on in Ukraine. Why are you doing this? Do you think it would scare Putin? He'd give up if he knew our T-72 were going? In that openness, in communication with people, in explaining, be those who provide information. All you do is keep an eye out for someone not to inform, but when they don't get valid information, they hide, the secretary lets the dancer out of his purse, so how are these people supposed to react? Please consider how you will proceed. Be open to people, explain it to them, perhaps it will be better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u85	Thank you very much for keeping time. Now, Mr Radek Koten, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would only respond here, and very briefly, to the individual contributions, whether the Minister of the Interior or the others. Yes, we are proud of it, and we are to be proud to help Ukraine. It's okay, of course, because people who run away from places of conflict are supposed to be helped. However, Czech citizens live here, they are Czech seniors, and they will be deprived of the money they are entitled to. I don't understand. I don't know what newcomers are entitled to join us in the Czech Republic. From the looks of the government, they probably have a far greater claim than the citizens of the Czech Republic. This is therefore unacceptable to me. So it's probably a matter of priorities. It almost seems that the Prime Minister tends to be the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because in Ukraine, it's corrupt, so it's probably better for us to run it from here. And as for the money that the working Ukrajinec are bringing here. Over 100,000 Ukrajinec worked here before the conflict. They've worked here, they've already lived here, they're allowed a long-term stay here, and of course they're taking them to the system. But we also have to say that there's a lot of income in the gray economy, too, because I didn't see anyone at the construction site going there with an EET terminal. As far as the gas is concerned, we've been haunting the gas. [[Strongly.]] Okay, well, we've got a great gas here now, but 60 years ago, there was a gas that wasn't a problem, but now in North Bohemia, the boilers are clogged with some shit that's in this gas of yours that you negotiated in the west of our partners. [[President: Please, it's very loud.]] So please explain to those people who will still pay for the boilers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u87	Congressman, thank you for keeping time, and I appeal very much to a little volume reduction. And now it is time for Minister Marian Jurečka to prepare Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u88	Thank you. I am very pleased that during the period when Czechoslovakia was attacked by Nazi Germany, that perhaps in the US we were not at the head of the United States of America instead of Roosevelt, someone like Mr Okamura or Mr Koten, because we might not be here at all today, perhaps we would not speak Czech in the Czech Republic, and we would be part of a completely different country, and that there were people who were willing to sacrifice their comfort, deployment of their lives, their financial resources for helping to free Europe as allies as well as some of the Czech Republic, for example. But now about the facts. Madam Secretary of Defense made it very clear last week. What we don't publish in a certain real time is also necessary for safety reasons. And you know it. For safety reasons, even those who help to provide the technology logistically. So the Czech Republic has delivered CZK 4.5 billion of weapons material for the government of the Czech Republic in accounting value, the Minister gave an exact list last week at a press conference. The remaining amount is commercial, agreed deliveries and business of private companies. This is not from public sources, it has nothing to do with the Czech citizen. The Czech Republic has already been compensated for EUR 6.5 million and USD 306 million. If you can count it, you can count it, and you know we have more than enough compensation. Plus another supply of technology received or received by the Czech Republic. There are 195 000 Ukrajinec working on the Czech labour market, since the beginning of the war conflict began to work, and today there are 95 000 people who regularly work here every day. And what's interesting is when you talk about the social system, about how we support someone more or less, so you voted for Lex Ukraine 5. Thank you for that. But then don't go and say that suddenly after a week you changed your mind and you see it differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u89	Thank you for keeping time. Now, once again, with Mr Foldyna's actual enrollment, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, your two quiet minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u90	So I'm grateful for everyone, I'm... Because I'm completely confounded by what the Minister here says for half-truths and lies. What are you doing here? What are you doing here in World War II, gratitude to the United States? Well, we're grateful for every fallen soldier who freed Europe! [[In an elevated voice.]] But we're not stupid enough not to remember that back in the 1940s, American companies were trading Nazi Germany, that Henry Ford was giving Němec, Nazi Němec, even shares in the sale of his goods. And you seem to have forgotten the 20 million Soviet soldiers who died who freed this country and a large part of Europe! [[Very high voice.]] You're redrawing history, and you're not ashamed to perform here yet! And then they were occupied. But, colleague, first they gave their lives here... they gassed us! The ones you guys are defending today with your attitude, so we were just meant to write them off. Here... Buchenwald didn't do Rus or Soviet soldiers! Buchenwald was made by the Němec! In Buchenwald and other concentration camps, there were designated us Slovan. And today, you're making and tearing us apart again, and you're making us look like fools on a treadmill!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u91	That was Mr. Foldyna. And now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u92	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to respond in a matter of fact to what has been said here from the mouth of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. And that, above all, we should pour pure wine in the context of the payment of the humanitarian benefit and in the context of all the Lex Ukraine. Lex Ukraine 4 did not support the ANO movement. And it did not support it because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was no longer able to incorporate stricter conditions for payment of humanitarian benefits into this legislation. That's just the fact that it is. And he didn't bring it until a few months later, which means it will be valid and effective only from April. And it could have been valid and effective since January. That, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, is true. Second thing. When the Home Secretary is standing here saying how well he did it, I think - and again I say that there were many people involved, including citizens who deserved a huge thank you, and others, firemen, policemen, paramedics, mayors, captains and so on, I don't want to forget anyone - but the Home Secretary was in charge of registration. And we still, maybe in a few months, because now it's re-registration of temporary protection, maybe we'll finally know how many people in the Czech Republic are, what professions are and what education they are. The Home Secretary hasn't been able to handle this in a whole year. And we constantly challenged him. So just to tell each other the truth about how these things are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u93	Thank you. And now we are going back to the debate and there is with priority the President of Andrej Babiš. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u94	Hello. Shortly to the debate. Minister Jurečka and Mr Rakušan here were upset about what opposition colleagues here claim. But the problem is, your numbers that you're publishing yourself are totally confusing. So only if we take it from the media did you say that Ukrainian aid cost you 28.5 billion. Mr. Jurečka doesn't listen because he doesn't care. He always says how he wants to communicate with us. Mrs. Černochová said she delivered $10 billion worth of weapons. And here is just a question, and I have asked repeatedly why, under the Presidency, Minister Jurečka, why didn't your Prime Minister negotiate a euro for Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Germany? He negotiated EUR 20 billion for Ukraine, that's okay, but, while illegal migration was, Greece, Italy, has negotiated billions of euros historically. You didn't even try. I don't understand at all. You could easily negotiate EUR 1.5 billion for the Czech Republic and other countries without problems. There was an opportunity. [[12.20 hours]] So it would be good if you guys put out the story, because we read - blesk said that the help in the guns was 55 billion. Mrs. Černochová claims 10 billion. Mr. Jurečka just said 4.5 billion. So who's to confess? So it would be good if you would normally communicate and publish it, then you wouldn't have to have clashes with each other here. I am particularly fascinated by Mr Jurečka's announcement that maintaining the current method of valorisation of pensions would mean a total burden for the state budget of approximately 600 billion crowns of compulsory expenditure over the next ten years. I'd like to ask, Mr. Secretary, could you explain? I don't understand. You have a view of 2025. You're just making it up. [[He's turning right into a diaper.]] Then you can express yourself if you let me speak. Structure of state budget revenue 2023. I don't know if you've read it. Do you know what the increase in social security contributions is year-on-year 2022 - 2023? Plus 61.9 billion. And an increase in tax revenue 214. So you only have a year-on-year increase in 2023 314 billion. And you're just making it up, and you're saying that your proposal saves 316 billion in ten years. And how did you figure that out? You've only got an estimate until 2025. You're just making it up. Normally, because Mr. Jurečka probably knows what wage policy will be, how much will be the levy collection, he knows it for ten years in advance. Absolute genius. And he's lying, he's making it up. And if that's true, show it. Show me the view of the year - ten years in your opinion - 2033! [[In an elevated voice.]] You don't have one! You don't have one, you're just making it up. And this is where you talk to the elderly that there's no money. Well, of course there's money. Of course there's money. And if you're bragging about us getting EUR 6.5 million out of the union. Oh, man, that's awesome. But you were supposed to settle 1.5 billion. You haven't said anything because the Prime Minister hasn't been able to call Charles Michel at all under the Presidency, tell him, look, we need the European Council, and I want the money! . He could have negotiated it for the green crap you agreed to, what everyone would pay! [[Highly]] The European Union is a business! Only your Prime Minister can't do it! Tough business, something for something! By the way, Hungary eventually, which was not democratic, was able to do so within the Presidency - and that is a good thing. So you didn't negotiate anything at all. And the Minister says he will save CZK 316 billion. Dear seniors, it's a normal fantasy. And if you don't, I'll apologize here. Show it how you know in ten years it'll cost 600 billion. And the dirty stuff, talking about economic damage. You guys haven't done anything. And some tanks, please, I don't care about tanks at all... So of course I am very interested, I asked the Secretary of Defense in the presidential campaign to compare Mr. Řehka to put him in a bunker somewhere to stop talking! What's he saying? I was talking about peace, and normally, here I'll read to you, now I'll turn away from the money Mr. Řehka says. 2. 3. pro-government media, these are all media, including iDNES, are calm. They said Babiš was pissing people off because Babiš was talking about peace, allegedly the children were afraid and the parents were afraid. All propaganda. So what does Mr. Řehka say? Listen carefully. For a long time, we have lived in a false sense that war does not concern us. The company's used to paying for a professional army. Yes, we supported it. And Mr. Řehka interviewed Mrs. Witowská, who was the independent journalist from the Czech Republic who wasn't so independent when she was on the next president's team. Now what Mr. Řehka says. According to him, in the event of the outbreak of the war conflict between NATO and Russia, the Čech should not rely on the position in the heart of Europe to protect them. There you go. If there is an armed conflict with Russia, the Czech Republic must not count on the war to touch it, says Řehka in spotlight. And according to him, Čech often do not realize that in the event of an outbreak of war, targets would be in our territory, he says. Unbelievable. You can expect some rockets to fly around... Dear citizens, that's what the Chief of Staff says! [[In an elevated voice.]] Scandal! Some rockets would fly with us or flat-way missiles even, warns the head of the Czech army. [[- Please...]] Please clean him up at last, Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u95	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna need a little volume down. That was very intense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u96	Yeah, clean him up, Madam Vice-President, finally. It's not possible anymore. I can read you here for two hours... who's still talking about the war. Who's haunting who here? We supported the army. Yes, as part of the presidential campaign, everyone, the pro-government media said what would happen if NATO attacked Poland. Yes, you all remember that. I was talking about peace, and this guy here, he's telling himself that on the General Staff today. And doesn't anybody care that we're gonna have rockets or runway-area missiles flying in here? He warns the head of the Czech army. Mobilization of Czech citizens and so on. I don't understand. I don't get it. But the media is calm because we just know what's going on. Let's go back to the money, Minister Jurečka, who is making it up. Normally, he lies and says that if there had been a review under the law - and I read an analysis here yesterday, and my colleagues told me that the Prime Minister of the Legislative Council, which is the Minister, for us it was just the President, was taking notes. That's good, Mrs. Malá's analysis is great. And everyone knows it's unconstitutional. Only then, the ODS attorney here already knows the Constitutional Court's cast, so it's okay. He told us yesterday, it's clear, Constitutional Court, Rychetský and Co. It's up to you to decide. And that's the new totalitarianism I was talking about yesterday. If you want to talk to us, have fun. But you're not able to have fun because you're not able to give the numbers. Put on the table, you yourself have published how much you spent on Ukraine so we can finally know. And I don't have a problem with that. This is Mr. Rakušan talking about help. Yes, the YES movement was the only one that gave money. I personally saved 1,000 Volyně Čech and paid 60,000 euros out of my taxed money. Personally. I was in Dobra House, organized a cruise to Vltava for Czech singles and Ukrainians. Yes, even the Ukrajinec lived on the Capitol's nest, we did everything! I was the only one on the Slovak-Ukrainian border, I was in Kapušany, the ANO movement provided humanitarian aid. But I've never heard of a five-calice politician giving at least 5,000 crowns of his own money. I didn't hear that. But that's not the subject, yes, I realize that. Yes, the Ukrajinec were here, we need them, all right, but then we need to keep an eye on the system, because now we've read that Mr. Jurečka's MPSV is using the system. They bragged about how it would all work through IT, and now it turns out that someone was using it. But of course, I'm not criticizing it, I'm sure they'll fix it. So if you want to avoid debate about this - and we have always argued, yes, it is necessary to help Ukrajinec, no one must abuse it, but first of all it is necessary to help our people, our citizens, and this government does not do that. [[12.30 hours]] So Mr. Jurečka's statement - I would like to call on him to prove it, and he is unable to prove it, because I have the macroprognosis of the Ministry of Finance, the medium-term outlook for finance, and he is unable to prove it. I mean, even the budget of 2023 is going to change x-times! I mean, it's totally cotton! By the way, in January, under the deficit, it is said that there is support for 18 billion in energy. I'd like to know exactly where it went. Where it went, it would be interesting to know. That the government didn't know there was going to be inflation. Well, of course she knew. After all, the Czech Statistical Office's press release states that the energy tariff has ended. So they knew they'd fall for it. They knew they'd fall for it in January 2022, when they didn't continue to forgive VAT to zero. That's exactly what they knew it was. Today and yesterday, we also heard from Minister Jurečka how great all this is. And I don't want to talk about the constitutionality, the unconstitutionalness, I think it's pretty obvious. Here was a big argument about the comparison of pensions, the ratio of pensions to the average net wage, argued. It's true it moved. Why? Because you just don't increase the wages of civil servants. But they're not officials, but they're firemen, policemen, soldiers, teachers, doctors, and so on. And they argue with the ratio, I don't know, here's 61 something. Well, the solution is simple - raise people's salaries. Yes, it's true, and we're also saying that it's not a problem just that old people don't get what they own, that's the problem that you're totally impotent about dealing with inflation. And I'll do it again. The solution is simple, and again I call on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to convene an extraordinary general meeting of ČEZ. Buy out the shareholders, leave the stock exchange and you can finally build a 100% company on ČEZ in the hands of the state, which has an ilmenite, which has a leased terminal, which has 20 percent of the gas distribution, and you can stop it at CZK 1,500! And it's all settled. Everything. The inflation, you bring it down. You mít 19.1 Macron has 7, Spain 4.5. And it's settled. Sorted. But I don't understand why you don't want it. Of course, no one's answering. Colleagues here are always looking at how they want to communicate with us, but no one's responding. I don't know why. Does anybody have stock in the CEZ? I'm sure they'd go for it. It's in your hands. If you say there won't be any dividends, they won't. It's a matter of business. You haven't been able to agree on the composition of the Supervisory Board, nor have you been to the trough... So that's the solution. Simple, quick, you'll save on inflation for church restitution, which you've fraudulently approved here based on fraudulent reviews. And our pensioners won't have that kind of cost. So to the pension ratio, the average net wage. In Austria, it is 87.1 %, 13 percent of GDP. Seven percent of GDP in our country, just. The Slovak pension system, incredible, has 69,4% there. Yes, you'll say they have a lower wage. That's true, but if you're talking about an affair, let's talk about an affair. So it's also not an argument that it just doesn't work. It's just that... it's about money in short, about money you don't want to deal with. Mr Jurečka, Minister, once again I call on him to prove to us his claim that over the next ten years the overall burden on the state budget is about 600 billion. Where did he find out? I don't get it. I don't get it because he can't know if Tyll doesn't know, and that's the real finance minister here historically after Gregor. Ministers take turns, but without these people, they wouldn't have fixed the budget in their lives. Well, then he can't know because no one knows how it's gonna be. But one thing's for sure, it's all about inflation. Even for inflation, food is expensive. I've already talked about it. So it's about electricity, and no one responds, no one cares. Of course, pro-government media doesn't write it because the media - how do they work? It's from commercials! Who's got commercials? And who's in control here, this country? Who controls the media? Then we can talk about it sometime. It is absurd for me that Minister Jurečka, who is the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, instead of standing here and fighting, or the government, against the Minister of Finance - it has always been so, I have whistled for them, Maláčová versus Schillerová, okay? - so now the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is fighting the elderly. Well, that's completely unbelievable. Totally unbelievable. And it's all about inflation. So I don't believe it, Mr. Jurečka isn't telling the truth that he's going to save 316 billion, absolutely out of the question. Out of the question. He's just making it up. Calling a pensioner economic damage is absolutely scandalous. Everyone keeps saying that, and it's just nonsense. And I have the numbers. We can look at the increase in public budget revenues. This year - and I will repeat again, so that citizens know, when taxes are collected, then they divide between self-government, between the state of the so-called budgetary determination of taxes. During our reign, we have increased in favour of self-government, for the benefit of municipalities and cities and regions, and these are the so-called public budgets. And, of course, there are other institutions. The increase, the increase in public budget revenues compared to 2021, was 254 billion in 2022, and this year it is 534 billion increases. Yes, someone will argue that pensions are also rising and educational, but these are huge amounts - 2024 is an increase of 627 billion and 2025 is 716 billion. So that's the maximum forecast by the Treasury. No one else has. Mr. Jurečka's prediction, I'm convinced, doesn't exist, makes it up normally. And anyway, I don't know if he's even able to perceive where the source of the pensions is, that wages will increase and that the government won't meet the promise of reducing social security contributions by 2 percent. And only the increase of the year-on-year 2022, 2023 - pension contributions - is almost 62 billion. So money is, and the government simply doesn't want to provide money. And it's an incredible shame here what's going on, and of course we're going to do everything we can to prevent it. That's why I'm here... But I don't think I do, I'm talking to the point. I speak numbers. I'm speaking specifically. I was the Finance Minister, and I know what I'm talking about. I had a surplus budget and reduced my debt to 29 percent. And I've put in a check report with the EET to keep the innkeepers from stealing. And you tore it down. 14 billion a year, I couldn't. But I get it, it's always been a mantra for the ODS. So that's it. [[12.40 hours]] So Mr. Jurečka claims that this government is actually doing prosperity. So let me ask you, how come you fell from the 9th place where we got the Czech Republic, our government, and we were better off than Spain and Italy, to the 12th place? How is that possible? In the economic index. No, that's the last number. Mostly, inflation is out of control. Yes. The Minister of Finance is glad he's falling, hundreds of billions, and he doesn't want to deal with it. Once again, it can be solved simply, and I've read here the analysis of electricity exports, when exports have risen 3.3 times, and it's very clear. It's trivial. It's trivial. It's just about electricity. Dear fellow citizens, you just texted me about the demonstration. We've been working this out, but there's a big demonstration on Sunday. Doing so many demonstrations mainly for pensioners is problematic, so Thursday will be a demonstration in favour of the new President. 5,000 people are reported there. And one of you wrote me a brilliant idea of how to make that protest. And now, of course, it's brainstorming, that how we old people could protest. For example, and it can be measured that we would agree that in one day some hour at night, all pensioners would turn off the electricity and turn off the lights. The CEPS is gonna measure it for us. That's an idea. So try to think about it and write to me, because of course do demonstrations, like some colleagues here did or others did and pick up buses people, so it's not quite... But that would be quite nice if our seniors expressed their opinion in this way that they would shut down the power for a while. Well, I'll think about it, and I'll let you know, 'cause I think it'd be nice to tell you what you think. Yes, this is where the coalition shows us, this is the lady from the Highlands showing us a pensioner, he's performing everywhere in Europe, and I repeat, it's small change. The Prime Minister doesn't want to be consensual, he doesn't want to connect it, and if you look at the government proposal, the only one who has any plus out of it is a pensioner who has CZK 8,000, a ridiculous CZK 36, but otherwise the typical pension, the 21,000 or 20,000, the pensioners are actually going to go there, and I don't want to use that word as colleagues here, but you can interpret it anyway, they're going to lose CZK 1,000 a month. And I agree that this applies to the next few years. Yes, but their consumer basket and their inflation are the highest. And, of course, if we were in the government, we wouldn't just be letting it go and giving them the full amount, but of course, we would solve it for everyone. I really don't understand. I mean, the electricity is basic. Everything would change. Everyone would have a power supply of CZK 1,500. It wouldn't cost a penny. ČEZ would have paid for it. ČEZ would have paid for it! Not a penny of the budget. CEZ, which exports electricity to Slovakia, where they have 65 euros. No, 1,500 crowns. I was calling on Mr. Síkela here on February 18, 2022. So, seniors, all the government's declarations here that you're some kind of burden on our state are really dirty. It's a lie. It's not true. You built our country, you deserve it. And of course, no one here wants an intergenerational problem. We want young families to buy real estate, but they won't buy anything. Who's to blame? Czech National Bank! Mr. Rusnok's still going to some interviews. Why don't they ask him what you predicted, Mr. Governor? What? The bank's additional profits? I can read the Secretary of Finance's declaration about the windfall tax here. The Czech National Bank has destroyed the mortgage market here, and today the young families simply cannot afford it. Someone is talking about future generations, and how are they supposed to have children if they don't have a proper place to live or under adequate conditions? So I understand it's hard to predict, but, of course, the windfall tax, it's absolute insanity. I don't know who invented it, but it's brilliant, because the Minister just made a bank out of companies. Why? Because the windfall tax, the so-called additional taxation, really for foreign investors who have come to this country or come on the basis of the five-calice electoral programs that no longer apply to the government, and the government's programming statement is different than they promised. And of course, this new one we haven't seen before, so there's nothing there. So they invented an extraordinary tax on unexpected profits. This applies from 1 January 2023 and 60 per cent of the tax premium applied to the excessive profit of these companies as the difference between the basis of the tax between 2023 and 2025 and the average of the tax base for the last four years, 2018 to 2021, plus 20 per cent. The Ministry of Finance expects an extra tax return to the state budget of 85 billion. In 2023 another 15 billion circus is to bring price ceilings. Even then, or now February 14th, the head of the Savings Agency says the proceeds of the war tax may not be so fat. So, of course, those private people, those banks, last year, they're going to have 33 billion extra, which means that the tax that's only to be found in June 2024, is probably not going to be what the state expects. But the state actually made a bank out of those companies, because those companies are going to pay backup, and those advances are going into budget implementation. So the Minister of Finance is very handy and he came up with it perfectly, because he's going to take down the advances that are higher, I think they're going to be high compared to the specific tax results in 2024. And then he's gonna have to give it back. I don't know if there's any interest or anything, but genius. Brilliant! So no one gets anything, we take everything out of inflation, we keep it, and we keep the windfall tax, so we borrow the money, then we give it back, and, of course, the private ones, the banks probably optimize it - and in the finals, who's gonna pay it all? ČEZ. 150 billion is estimated to be settled. So I don't understand why CEZ won't buy it now and all that money, hundreds of billions, stay and solve everything. He'll figure it all out. So for me, when I look at the budget, and there was some article here: Budget - tens of billions fly through the air. It says here: Perhaps the state budget of the Czech Republic has never been burdened with as many unknown and risks as this year. The main reason is still difficult to estimate the development of energy prices, which affects the state's extraordinary revenues and expenditure. Great! But if they put it at 1,500, they're clear. He doesn't have to estimate anything. And they're scheduled for 100 billion on both sides. Moreover, the January forecast of the Ministry of Finance aggravated the outlook for economic development and at the same time expected higher inflation than when the budget agreed. While, according to the budgetary reference report, average inflation should reach 8.8% this year and the economy will really rise by 1.1, the new Ministry of Finance predicts that the economy will fall by 0.5 percent and expect average growth by 10.4. [[12.50 hours]] This government is still going to grow. Not like we thought we were covide minus 5.5 percent of GDP, and we gave money to everyone, yes. We didn't... And I agree with the Prime Minister who said in the interview that the state had no data. First, therefore, the Minister of Finance does not even have the opportunity to influence the Financial Administration, although Mr Stanjura, in one case, is trying to influence, in the case of the Chapi čapí, so he said that he would arrange for it. Well, the statistics aren't. If we had the statistics that the covide pub pays before the covide and doesn't pay on hand and how much tax, and of course there were such pubs, then those who didn't pay and then fired because they didn't get the compensation wouldn't get it. But the state doesn't have that kind of record. And now I'm not saying it's someone's fault. We should have dealt with that right after the revolution. So the budget is absolutely open. Clearly, the government doesn't want to fight inflation. The government is still lying about us causing inflation, that's what the journalists are still parroting. So again, we've reduced inflation, we've, yes, together, canceled a super gross wage, yes, and that's why people's savings went up by 907 billion, so they couldn't cause inflation! And this nonsense is still so-called experts, who knows how to pay, go on TV and interpret absolute nonsenses. So that's what this is about. And if the government wants it, they'll make a beautiful arrangements. And again, the key is ČEZ. Yes, we remember the articles that ČEZ has always run the entire Chamber of Deputies and all parties. Well, I don't know, I don't want to go back to that. So here's the debate - a ridiculous 34.4 increase this year and the minister of 19 has and the next year 59. I'm just fascinated by the way you jumped with all that defense expenses. I understand that Mrs. Černochová maybe when she talks to the government, they're all on the lookout, but year on year she's raised $40 billion, so I'm wondering how she's actually gonna spend it all. But maybe she'll do it. The approved state budget doesn't count on extraordinary pension valorisation, although it has been clear since last autumn, although the Minister said he had the money, that it must happen this year one way or another. Another problem is the fully uncovered budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which is now to obtain the necessary 30 billion by issuing bonds. Well, that's great news, that's what I fought for, so I didn't do it, and if the finance minister -- that's what he did, hat off. And I'm wondering if these bonds are going into debt, if this is how it's going to be, because it's definitely a good idea to issue bonds to a company like this, which, of course, has a budget, I don't know how many 145, 150 billion, it's been that way for us. Of course, all the highways, the railroads, everything's there, the station. Well, if the government doesn't have any money, I'm just recommending that the government try to do a PPP project like Karel Havlíček did. The highway on Strakonicka. You can easily do Hradec-Olomouc or Prague-Tábor, these are all projects that could be financed from PPP, which means it will build a private company, the state will rent it. Yes, it's true that it's a little bit more expensive, but again there's a guarantee and hopefully those highways that behind the ODS, for the famous Řebíček, who had no conflict of interest because he had Viamont and built all the highways, won't cost another 550 million CZK kilometer, but you'll stay on that 250. And if it's not exactly accurate, well, that's about it. So the budget will change, and I'm sure Minister Stanjura knows. But Mr. Superminister Jurečka, who manages how many ministries I don't know, so instead of fighting for those pensioners, because he has it in the resort, and that Maláčová and we've always wanted to see seniors, we've always had priority in pensions, so he's fighting them and he's not telling the truth yet. It's not possible. There's no such thing as - and if that's the case, let him show it. It's impossible for someone to predict ten years in advance what social security contributions will be. This government is even ambitious to make pension reform by the end of the year. Well, I had the same ambition, too, but I figured it wasn't gonna happen. We had a retirement committee, there was Mrs Nerudová, Mrs Maláčová, we discussed it twice at the Coalition Council. I never really understood what they're saying to me because, of course, the expenses are simple, but the revenue, well, when there's revenue, there's taxes, and then I wonder how this government will solve it when it's not able to solve almost anything. So, Mr. Jurečka, please present to us for ten years the total burden on the state budget of compulsory expenses. But show us the difference, the revenue. You don't even deal with income. Not at all. And you're giving up that income. And I would like to know, of course, that you will finally tell us about Ukraine. I don't have anything... I just want to know how much it cost, what money you got, why don't you give it a try. Why don't you try to get money from the European Commission in favour of the Czech budget? Because we took care of Ukrajinec, it cost money, so let Europe pay us as it paid Italy and Greece. That's legitimate. Why didn't you even try? I really don't get it. I don't get it. About the inflation. Please read 10. 2. inflation, Czech Statistical Office. That's what it says. Consumer prices increased by 6 percent in January compared to December and by 17.5 year on year. According to Eurostat, this is 19.1. This growth was significantly influenced by the end of the household's austerity tariff in the form of a contribution to energy. Remember how you promised 15,000 each household? I mean, you guys ended it, so don't say you didn't know you were gonna fall for it. Electricity 36,4 percent. But of course the Minister is a handy finance minister, and he has money in his budget to compensate for the crazy high ceilings. Now, of course, no one knows on average how much electricity and gas are contracted. But he already has 18.1 billion crowns to help citizens and companies with high energy prices in February. So I would be so interested in the detail of who got it and how it is, because it seems so high to me. But if it's in the budget, and I don't know exactly, there's actually 100 billion there, so the development that is now because it's warm winter, I think the minister can save. Then I was interested in interest expenses. There are so many experts, theorists. And of course, it was a different time. When I was Minister of Finance, I borrowed at negative interest, which means we borrowed for the Czech Republic and the investors paid us, yes. And this, of course, has also changed with the Czech National Bank's policy, which is insane. Again, if the euro area is 2.5, 3, then why is the Czech National Bank 7 per cent? And I don't care if Rusnok or Michl, my former advisor from May 2017. The media is still lying about Babiš's promotion of Michl. Well, he didn't. nikdo one. I'm saying that the Czech National Bank destroyed, those theorists sitting there, destroyed the mortgage market, damaged young households, damaged - they just want everything to go wrong here so no one buys anything, and that's their fight with inflation. The oil cartel - the sheiks are laughing at you. And what else - the Lips Stock Exchange? Emission allowances? The Prime Minister said he'd take care of it. He criticized me. I tried. Who do you want to fight? How do you want to fight? You're just giving big profits to commercial banks. Well, that's great, giving the money. They have a surplus. Of course, there's no capital market, 90 percent of the companies are financed from Komerční banka, and thank God, thank you for that. And Mr. Michl was surprised that the companies went from crown to euro. Logically, isn't it? Logically. The Czech National Bank says we don't want the euro. And what do they do? Well, that's where we're headed for the eurosummit, where I've been sitting x-times, where those with money talk, that's north, against those who are in the south, there's the sun, big debts. So that's the eurozone. Independent Czech National Bank. Okay, so 23.50, cool. People feel that - but we live in the crown zone. What about the exporters? What about those Czech companies that do not export and have no euro, loans and buy Czech raw materials and sell on the Czech market? And those competitors will come here and go against them with a strong Czech crown. Who's ever gonna do the math? Or... So that's the debate, and you can't blame the experts on the TV and what they're telling us. [[13.00 hours]] The Czech National Bank should reduce - lower interest, lower mortgages. Or do you expect the apartments in Brno to be 2 plus kk for 6 million? Or are they going to be bought by rich people who are going to rent them and foreign, or what? I don't understand. I'm not a macro, I only have common sense, and I learned one plus one is two, and it kind of works. And of course it has an impact on state debt. It would be nice to see for what average interest coupon or bond the state borrows, what volume it is. And it's shown as a percentage, of course as a percentage. So GDP is rising and therefore the percentage still 2022, and that is our legacy, it worked and was still lower than in 2013, when the right-wing government of the ODS ended. So the absolute state debt of 2022 was 42.9, and, as I remember, it was below 2013. So state debt, the view is completely insane, I think by 2025 even to 100 billion. I don't understand. The question is, do these financial markets trust this government and those credit rating agencies? I don't know how they can trust a government that actually says something different at any moment. These foreign investors, they call themselves, well, they're crazy. I can't do business here. If I hear anything in the electoral program, then they'll come in and there's something completely different. When you had a reduction in two percent of your social security contributions in the electoral program. Yes, there was a reserve, if the funds would allow it. Well, of course you already knew they wouldn't allow it. So I don't understand how someone from abroad is supposed to do business here, when everything changes any minute, you change the law all you want. So normally hell. Here's the article - the government has swept its way to raising taxes. We are glad that some journalists use our expression and our expression to decide the government of 1. 3. regarding the Government's new programming declaration. Well, hopefully we'll live to see it, because they haven't evaluated it yet, and we don't even know what the government wants. An unhappy state of public finances and the rising deficits of the state budget forced the government to... An unhappy state of public finances. Because they don't care about the income. They don't want the revenue. What about drawing on the European funds? Yes, we didn't really sleep there four nights, five days and we won the second largest money for the Czech Republic, EUR 1.6 billion, extra 42 billion. Our impassion against all the blocking of the Council. And I'm proud of it. We won 980 billion, of which 50 billion for Czech health care. And yesterday I was talking about the REACT-EU, which is to be exhausted by 2023. If the money runs out. I've always asked about the government, because of course the subsidy system is that the state backs it up and then asks for it in Europe, and there's a big time lag, and that, of course, costs money. So I've always said, how much is there, how much do you finance from the Czech budget, and how fast are you waiting for Europe? I don't know how much Minister Stanjura has there, if he even cares. Klára Dostálová here said he forgot to ask for the European funds somehow. But anyone who was a finance minister knows how some officials at the Treasury know how to advise and present. And the Prime Minister is still making excuses for the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its consequences. Please, one more time: you're still growing. We had a slump. We never questioned our government's programming statement. You didn't just evaluate it, but you're still making excuses. Yes. Well, it has an impact, of course. But again, the solution is on the table, and you don't want to deal with it. Among other things, according to the Prime Minister, the government will continue to stabilise public finances and prepare pension reform. Good luck with that. If we are invited, we will - we will be happy to comment. I always said the pension money had to be. He has to. There were debates about the distribution of the pension account, once it was in surplus, then it was minus. But it was a priority. Because, I repeat, historically the ODS doesn't like retired people. The ODS, if it could, will completely abolish the Valorisation Act. And paradoxically, it's their law, it's the law of Prime Minister Nečas. Well, at least the ODS did something for them. 2010 was zero. Zero. And you kept reducing it, and we ended up CZK 45. Yes, you took the fare discount right away, the drugs, the VAT and all that. So the Prime Minister here says that the obligation to reduce social security will be over. He's still talking about consolidated public finances. I think we had that program by 2025. But most of all, we took care of the income. And we, above all, have reduced taxes by 504 billion under our governments. But we wanted people to pay taxes, and that's why we came up with a check report and an EET, and it worked. Fight against carousel shops. They always stole the most money in fuel here. Do you remember LTO and other things? Liquor, alcohol affair, everything. Until we came - during the period when I was the Minister of Finance, and I must say that it was mainly the credit of the new Chief of Financial Administration Simona Hornochová, who pushed through the inspection report so here that no one even noticed. Because, of course, those who stole tens of billions in VAT weren't happy after that. And I hope the government doesn't change that now. So, the Prime Minister says that the government's programming statements had all these in a conditional manner. Yes, that's right. So what's it worth, a kind of government programming statement when you make it conditional on something and you already know in advance that you're not actually gonna do it? [[13.10 hours]] In the old version there was also an obligation to introduce a tax brake, which was to set a ceiling on tax burdens. Once the tax quota had been reached, the tax increase would automatically be excluded, it stood in it. However, there is not a word in the updated version about this tax brake. According to the chief economist UniCredit Bank Pavel Sobíšek, this may mean that the government can open the way to tax increases. Yes, ODS always raised taxes and didn't like retired people. The government's resigning to some longer-term control mechanism. The question is why? If he doesn't consider it necessary, or if he knows that there will be other priorities in this parliamentary term, Sobíšek said. It will make governance easier in this parliamentary term, and it will also be an advantage for the next parliamentary term, because this criterion, which was meant to be a brake, is not a brake in real life, even Daniel Münich, Executive Director of the Institute for Democracy and Economic Analysis, IDEA, at Cerge-EI. This step does not change the government's intention not to increase the overall tax burden on people and companies - well, we will see - but Tomáš Weiss, the spokesperson for the Ministry of Finance, has assured them. We do not see how to really enforce this intention in the form of the Constitutional Law, he added. In a chapter on public finances, the Government also states that, in cooperation with the NERV and the National Budget Board, it will prepare adjustments to both sides of the budget in order to return to long-term sustainable public finances. It has now included a promise to examine the risks and benefits of Czech accession to the European ERM II exchange rate mechanism, which is one of the conditions for adopting the common European currency. However, the cabinet is no longer applying for the adoption of the euro or the deadline for this step, although, as far as I know, the pirát and the TOP 09 certainly want it. Changes in benefits and pension valorisations. Fialův's cabinet is also planning changes in the welfare system that it intends to target targeted. Oh, great. So we suggested that the benefits go back to where they were: to the municipalities. In Bílina, our mayor sees exactly who goes to work, who the kids go to school, who makes a mess at night and so on. How does the employment office, I don't know where the nearest one is, keep an eye on it? Yes, the employment authorities are just a statistical place, except that the poor employees have the lowest salaries. The Czech Social Security Administration and the Labour Office have the lowest salaries, and now, of course, the most work, because of course, they are not able to cope with the refugee crisis. And it's really unbelievable. So the employment authorities, and I've been working on it, should they work how? Well, if I'm unemployed, I have his resume, so I'm looking for those job offers, I'm going to the firm, and the firm says, yeah, we saw him, he was in an interview, and we're taking him. Then I'll check to see if he got in. If he didn't get in, he couldn't get a shot. This is the ukrajinec we're talking about. I remember in government with ČSSD - ČSSD never wanted Ukrainian workers here, there were quotas and so on. Of course, they found it through Poland, where they give it, the permit, somewhere in the county offices or whatever. And how many of them are black and white? Well, clouds. mrak. Who's guarding this? And the agencies go ahead and so on. So these are all things. We had 15 points to fight poverty, and the truth is, we didn't all come true because our coalition partner didn't want to. It's not an excuse, it's a statement. But maybe this government will come up with a proposal that we can... We want to support rational things. And the pensions, of course, the Prime Minister says, we don't disturb the valorisation, we only regulate the valorisation mechanism, but we've been talking about this for days, so of course it's always over and over again. I didn't convince the Prime Minister to be the hero for the ridiculous 19 billion he has. And he believes in some calculations by Mr. Jurečka that don't exist. How can he afford to say he's going to save 310 billion? Based on what, if he can't even say properly, how will budget 2023, which is constantly changing? The Prime Minister said that in the area of security, 2% of gross domestic product should be spent on the military next year, not until 2025. I don't understand why. Why, if they say you don't have money, why would it jump 40 billion in defense? And, of course, the strategy. I'm no expert at this, but I've been very intensive with the military. And we see how the war is going on in Ukraine, that it's not about airplanes, that it's about other military technology, it's about the drones and so on. So they suddenly changed it. I get it, we support 2%, but if you're hastening it, then you can't say you don't have money for seniors. That's impossible. This can't be happening. And most importantly, clean up the Engesh. Don't worry about the rockets flying around. That's preposterous. Absurd. Rent housing support. Well, you're gonna give more support. Then what is it? Then why did Bartoš cancel the support for... When the crazy CNB destroys and destroys the mortgage market here and actually takes hope for young families to buy housing on a mortgage, because 20 percent of 5 million is a million. I don't know how many young families have a million to pay the mortgage advance. I don't think so. I don't know what it's gonna be, the law of affordable living. I was talking about it here, we supported it, they had the program, yes, it was just for social housing. Maybe it was a mistake, maybe it needs to be changed. By the way, the government will have money. It will be. I've declared it here on these huge increases in public budgets, public revenue. Plus the shots. I don't know, Minister Jurečka... The article On doses people have stolen millions, the system of their allocation has failed. I don't know. There's a scandal. I'm not saying who's to blame for not keeping an eye on it. He launched an electronic system that was supposed to handle the request without human intervention, but did not reveal fraud and paid off millions illegally according to the workers of the Labour Office. I guess they're missing too. And Mr. Jurečka asked the Supreme Audit Office. I don't understand why. There's an internal audit, right? There's got to be someone out there who can figure it out. Of course the IT system is an endless story on the MPSV. Someone's calling the shots that the app saves tens of millions. I don't know where it is. And abused millions are only a fraction. Well, I'd like to see that. Here says the union president at Simona Struhová's Labor Office, that after a little adjustment... Yeah, actually, that's how they cheated. For applicants from Ukraine, it is not possible to verify whether they are staying in our territory or whether they work here, and yet they are asking for a dose. I don't know if the Lex Ukraine has solved it. Of course, we probably all want Ukrajinec to work here, and they've been working here historically for a long time, but those who came long before that. Then I'll go back to the electricity. This is the government's warning article. The Czech Republic is facing a serious lack of electricity. We had a coal commission. There were representatives, as far as I know, the opposition back then, the existing coalition, which decided to end coal with us by 2038. Now a new minister is coming, and he wants to end it in 2033. I see, I think he wants to please his next colleagues at the Ministry of the Environment. Mr. Brabec got a little green there, too, while he was there in the collective, the former director of the chemist. [[13.20 hours]] Mrs. Kubátová here says that... and logically so. And fingers crossed. Dukovany prepared by Karel Havlíček. All you've done is sign. And it's not true what was said here that someone here preferred China and Russia. In 2012, when you were in the government and it was the finals of Temelín, it was Rosatom. Yes, for you. Russian company against Westinghouse. It's just to... Of course, the media doesn't write it that way because they're still rooting for you and they're still rooting for you. That's the cartel. So experts advise not to import more than 10 percent of the annual consumption. Yes, we do, and we have to do the Dukovany we've prepared. But coal power must remain at least until 2038 on condition that Dukovany finds a new nuclear reactor in 2036. And it probably doesn't work when ČEZ himself asked for an extension of mining in Bílina until 2035 and has supplies until 2055. That's what I think is good. By the way, I'm very curious about the European elections if anyone in Europe is going to get behind their heads and think that the Green Deal, which was actually agreed in some way, but conveniently for the Czech Republic, because we don't have a commitment and we get money, but in a situation where everyone was crazy, green, and of course Timmermans praised our Presidency, so if anyone thinks about it, about the impacts on the industry, the car industry and the coal we have. So I wonder if the Minister Hladík who wants to end the mining in 2033, or the next Minister, will actually change his mind, because in that case, of course, it would be a big problem, as Mrs Kubátová writes about it here. So it's still about the energy, it's still about the electricity. And that's the basis of everything, and that's the basis for having the worst inflation, and the government keeps saying something, and some of the five-calice officials say that we started something, I don't know what. We fixed the finances, and we had to do it in covid. Again, here's the headline for Mr. Frait's interview from the CNB - We can also look forward to deflation with greater energy reductions. So if you don't trust Babiš, of course, don't trust Babiš at all, so here's the man from the CNB telling you. When the current is low, the price is 1,000, so deflation, so if inflation goes down, everything gets cheaper and you don't have to deal with anything. Here's the budget, the outlook for 2025. Well, we'll be looking forward to seeing Mr. Jurečka show us the view by the year two thousand - what is it? 2033. Well, I'm really curious. Fiscal view. I'm based on the Treasury numbers in everything, so that's right. And to say things here, Mr. Jurečka was upset that there was some information, some misinformation, but if he's worth the information, let him prove to us for ten years how he really wants to take money from the elderly - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It's never been here before. It's never been for him to fight the elderly. KDU-ČSL, they were with us in the government when the coalition was ČSSD, KDU-ČSL. So the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for KDU-ČSL fights against pensioners while boasting that he was supposed to participate... Yes, six votes, we didn't need them at all, on the education for our elderly women who raised children. There's been a lot of talk about babies and births. So I don't understand. It's really... These people out here must really think that we're going crazy here when we're arguing and we don't want to give money, government, seniors, ridiculous money 0.85%. It's not an intergenerational problem, don't make it an intergenerational problem. Don't do that. We've always wanted to take care of everyone. By the way, I would also recall a program for young families that... Here, college students went to college in Prague and then stayed here, started a family and kindergarten, schools and sports halls. Since June 2014, when I introduced it as Minister of Finance, and here Mrs. Kovářová trained me in November 2013 and cried - isn't Mrs. Kovářová here? - that Kalousek doesn't want to give her money. Well, I did it her way, I found out, and it was fine. 26 billion. Ask in Khan, ask in Drahelčice, all around in Central Bohemia, where we don't get much vote, choose this five-calice. That's where we did it. The Ministry of Finance, then the Ministry of Education joined. And those were the specific things. Mother's kindergartens, which were sold out after the revolution, or flats, 600,000 flats were sold out, everything was privatized and then, of course, the problem of missing it. Now I would return to my colleagues who were denied the constitutional right to speak. So my colleague Lenka Knechtová here says: Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by stating that I have been denied my right to comment on the state of legislative emergency. Since Monday, February 27, 2023, I have been enrolled in a state of legislative emergency and have not been able to perform properly even in the regime for two or five minutes. I was prevented from giving my speech. Not even 2. 3. 2023 I did not get a say in the assessment of the conditions for discussion of ST 392 in a short hearing and I was not allowed to speak properly even after a reduction to two or five minutes. As an ordinary Member, I do not agree with the limitation of the rights of Members and I would like to point out that there is a breach of the Rules of Procedure on a live broadcast basis. It is indisputable that the government did not respond in time to the developments known for many months. And now at the last minute, and from my point of view, even retroactively, he's trying to enforce a law change and is afraid of obstruction of the opposition. There are certainly no extraordinary circumstances in this light. The government is actually dealing with who to take money from, instead of solving the question of how to leave the citizen more money. A government that presents itself as right-wing should know that a citizen knows what he needs better than a government official. He just can't deal with one person individually. And the money left to the citizens is therefore more efficient and unloaded costs of redistribution. The smiling thing is that I have to interpret this to this so-called right-wing government. That's the question of the right, that's the anti-Babish government, because the pirát, that's the total left, and so on, you know. They won with the anti-babish program, not some ideas. By the way, even those election programs, when you look at it and what they have in the government's programming statement, it's completely different. So let's move on. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura accidentally forgot to add 150 billion to the state budget on the expense side. Yes, you can hear well, 150 billion expenses. He forgot to count 20 billion on pension valorization, but then he found them last Sunday, 30 billion on transport investment - I asked if, and that's a good idea, bonds, and I don't know if it's going into debt, and 100 billion on electricity compensation. It's supposed to be in there somewhere, but I don't know. If he was doing his job honestly, the state budget for 2023 would be close to 500 billion. Once again, the "budgetary responsibility is our priority" has completely emptied the coalition. [[13.30 hours]] What about the National Budget Board, which states: We guard public finances, we are an independent expert body - clearly, independent, perhaps not looking at where they came from and where they were - whose main mission is to assess whether the state and other public institutions comply with the rules of budgetary responsibility laid down by law. Let's freshen up our memory of what the National Budget Board wrote about this government's management and how this government and Zbyněk Stanjura have made the state budget a ripping calendar. Opinion of the National Budget Board No 7/2022 out of 8. 12. 2022. Development of the management of the public institutions sector and the setting of fiscal budgetary policy. In November the Chamber of Deputies passed the State Budget Act 2023, which envisages a deficit of CZK 295 billion. However, the overall planned imbalance is higher as the size of the state budget subsidy to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure does not allow all its planned expenditure to be covered. The management of this fund in 2023 is thus assumed with a deficit of CZK 30.7 billion. This would mean that the 30.7. Minister Stanjura does not have any good news in the debt or in the budget, of course, for the Minister of Finance. [[unintelligible]] But I don't know if he's got it or not. The approved budget is also burdened by a high degree of uncertainty. The risk in the direction of a higher deficit is expenditure on exceptional pension valorisation in 2023. On the basis of expected inflation developments, it can be estimated that the 5% threshold for consumer price increases will be exceeded in January 2023, which will mean the launch of an extraordinary valuation of pension insurance benefits in June. [[on the dates relevant for determining the level of proper valuation]] This will require additional spending of around 20 billion, it was 34 which are not foreseen in the current budget. Given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it will be possible to cover it from savings in other State budget items. Well, you'd be surprised how the finance minister knows the magic. Another risk on the expenditure side is the compensation resulting from the regulation of energy prices for households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Their specific level will depend on energy prices in 2023, as well as on the specific form of compensation mechanism. On the revenue side, roughly a hundred billion income from the levy of electricity producers and the tax on unexpected profits can then be considered only as a qualified estimate. The actual result can be significantly influenced by the economic behaviour of individual tax entities and again by the electricity price in 2023. The National Budget Board understands that the geopolitical situation and the associated energy crisis require some non-standard approaches. I see. However, it is not possible to completely resign from the effort to ensure the reality and truthfulness of the budgetary documentation, especially if the crisis situation lasts for the third year and the budget for the fourth crisis year is being prepared. In addition, the National Budget Board notes that it cannot be preferred to achieve formally more favourable state budget deficits at the cost of knowing the unreality of its content, because this is contrary to the purpose and purpose of the budgetary procedure itself. Ignoring the basic rules and the principle of budget formation will weaken parliamentary control of public finances in the medium term, as well as the credibility of the Czech Republic on international markets. The return to a sustainable level will also be significantly complicated. What about the finance minister for the ODS? We can do this, Mr. Stanjura believes. So far, the government is not planning a state budget amendment for this year. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS claims that, for example, 20 billion, which the state plans to pay for an extraordinary increase in pensions, will save the cabinet elsewhere. But what about the 19, who are missing and who are they going to take and which minister has? I also state what is the most fundamental problem for me, says Mrs Knechtová. First of all, the state should shape the conditions for the economic competitiveness of the economy as much as possible. To this end, a number of fiscal policy instruments are to be built. However, instead of supporting the elderly, we are witnessing the narrowing of media assistance to citizens in need. In fact, as a program, this government offers us an investigation and a reduction in the standard of living - that has already happened. That's fresh news. Three places down. We were nine, now we're twelve. Without grasping active growth-enhancing tools. The government is merely looking into a situation where families are in an existential need. I will read you one of the many e-mails when citizens write to us about their life experiences: honourable Members, on Tuesday, February 24, 2023, you will decide on a government amendment that regulates the scheme of extraordinary pension and pension insurance. You have certainly noticed that this proposal among the citizens of the Czech Republic has caused much negative from confusion and opposition to shock that something like this is possible in the legal state at all. Of course, there are many who agree with the government's proposal. I am in line with those who are very troubled by the situation and have led me to address you personally as an elected representative of citizens. I come from a small village in Vysočina, where there are about a hundred of us. People who are now in old-age pensions often had physically demanding manual work in agriculture, poultry farms, pigs, cows, or as workers at the belt, bricklayers, miners. So they are wear and tear at their age, without any possibility of working or making extra money at their age. Their profession was needed for the state to run, to create values, to supply cities with their work, to make food available and so on. This, however, often for very low or minimal wages, from which they still supported their children, means that they could not save millions for old age, they simply did not have anything to do with it. But their pensions are now far from average, the usual amount for people I know is between 10,000 and 13,000. This will greatly reduce these people's energy and prices of basic needs, which are still increasing. Many will not remain there for a day more than a hundred crowns. Would you be able to live with that kind of income? If you can't make more money? I think the government is in a completely different world in this regard, and it can't imagine such an emergency at all. But to set a real example from my region. In the middle of December 2022, after the opening ceremony of a new kitchen in Jihlava Hospital, lunch menu was offered for CZK 65 in the middle of December 2022. For example, those who have an average of CZK 80 to 150 per day from retirement could finally afford at least one hot meal a day. Unbelievable. But after about a few weeks, prices went up to double, so now 130 crowns. Hell. We put 229 billion in Czech health care under our government, in case you forgot. Because you can't read it in the media. They can't often... So they raised their food from 65 to 130. In shops they often cannot take advantage of discount events dependent on apps on smartphones, so even here expenditures are gradually beyond their power. If these poor pensioners take even what little was to come up with extraordinary valorisation, they will either live because they are accustomed to living modestly and not to bother or become dependent on social benefits. Is he ready for this state? Well, the Prime Minister bragged about it as it went up. Except Jurečka's not paying off, so... Last time I made a video and set this crazy example, where two employed people who are renting, I think it was some Prague, and they're on welfare, but they're in the same district of Prague, the same office told them they didn't pay rent and to move out. And the same office owes them the money for four months. The Agrofert Foundation paid them. That's how it works here. Normally crazy. It's all crazy. Yes, doses. Poor employees there at the employment office. Is it prepared for this state to save on extraordinary valuations and pensions, but will it increase the number of beneficiaries of the housing allowance? Well, of course it isn't. Or will we also learn that the government was not counting on the contribution and increase of the applicants? [[13.40 hours]] Another question is, if pensioners are forced to save even more, for example, on the quality of food, won't it cost the state eventually, when these people are even more physically devastated, so they end up in hospitals or retirement homes, where there aren't so many places in either case? As part of the European funds, we fought, individual departments fought for the European money that I negotiated, and Maláčová has 3 billion there, Mr Jurečka has 3 billion there to build senior homes. How long has it been waiting for us? Number of beds per number of pensioners, we are even worse than Slovakia. And by the way, even in those senior homes, seniors now have to pay logically higher prices. I don't know if any of my colleagues were talking about it. Because even in that retirement home, it's electricity, and it's food, and it's over and over again. It's a real douche bag. This care is much more costly financially. Did the government even think about it in their proposal? Pensioners simply cannot change jobs for a new and better paid one, they have already done their state. They may also become much more dependent on loans that they subsequently cannot repay and end up in a debt trap. Oh, please, someone sent me an interview this morning from Radiožurnál, where Lucie Výborná is talking to this lady who worked at the call center for loans. And normally, poor people borrow at 80 percent. And now he's describing the interviews. Of course, there's a need to have a stomach, because first, the operator - like me, I'm not saying that they're responsible - has to talk somebody into taking that crazy loan, and then when he's supposed to pay, it's gonna be hell. And I was dealing with it here once, and I don't really know what happened anymore, they convinced us that weirdness, that it couldn't be put down and that we can't really do it. And so I just thought that today, when someone sent it to me, I heard it. Allegedly, they've got it covered in Slovakia, now I don't know if it's 15 or 18 per cent, so I don't understand why we've got this sinkhole here and why, instead of talking about the ridiculous 19 billion for the government and the important 7,000 for the elderly this year, we're not talking about these things, for example. But it's just that I thought of it. So, the lady who writes to Mrs. Knechtová. So I'm asking myself a few questions. How is it possible that according to the forecast of experts including the CNB in the budget for this year, the amount of extraordinary pension valorisation was not expected at all? Well, I wouldn't interfere with it, they're the same as the government, they're also destroying this economy and all of them and mortgages. That's what I'm talking about. It says either... and the firm, of course. Firms. Again, 87% of the Czech expert in the EU. Indebted Greece 208 %, we have 42.9, so there are 2.5 companies and our Czech companies, purely Czech companies that can't have euro loans, so they have 7, so that's it. It either indicates a clear intention that the government will try to push through this year, or the utter lack of expertise and laxity of people, yes, right, the laxity of the people who decide that. Except for these people, they're antisocial, they don't like people, they don't like retired people. Although valorisation is spoken of as an increase in pensions, it is a comparison of the effect of inflation. Right. Moreover, partly and backwards according to what inflation has already been. Yes, Babiš's dear. We knocked it down to 5.3. They're 19.1 and we're responsible for everything. That's really unbelievable. And asks the mistress: How is it possible that, within a few weeks, a change in the law already in force and in fact fulfilled, when the time for payment of a predetermined level of valorisation is running? That's the right question. In the state of law, as a citizen, I would expect that the law is above all, and that is different from the one about pension insurance. So, the state of law, hopefully the Constitutional Court, is no longer as clear as Mr. Haas here said it would be. I think the analysis, it's clear. But we still believe that the President will connect it, as he promised. And that if it changes, it won't be on the verge of constitutionality and so chaotic as it is now. This is what it feels like for an ordinary citizen to sleep in the government and suddenly it has become clear that something really needs to be done. And so it reaches for the easiest solution and such limitations, so that it is sure to push through, let the citizens think what they want. Well, of course, the media, the pro-government media, they massage that actually the retired people and why the retired people and why not the others. Yes, the others. 1,500 CZK megawatt and we're all happy. New Nagano. Sure. So let everyone calculate how much they would save - 1,500 kroner per megawatt. Look at your prizes, and everyone will be happy. If something is going on, so violently, under the pretext of economic damage - this is hell, who invented this, I would be terribly interested if it wasn't the advisor from the Prime Minister - in a legislative emergency, how should the ordinary citizen perceive it? Well, the average citizen sees it by sending him various experts and reporting with the right experts. And then they find out who pays them and where they work and why. Wasn't there a more demanding solution where the state could spare? Where could he get the necessary funds? Well, that's what we propose, but the government doesn't care. He goes straight after people, especially those who, for their age and yet another mentality, were often accustomed to getting by with little. Yes, under the old regime. We had chicken on Saturday, otherwise we had potatoes for the peel and we had the garden. Garden law, we go back where we didn't want to be. Even the young. Isn't this going to be a precedent for future law changes? That's the right question. If the government solves in this hasty and inconsistent way the current problem of extraordinary pension valorization, which it did not count on in the budget, even though the law was precisely there to help in the crisis and at large inflation, is it not possible that it will try again and with other laws that are currently not appropriate to them? Let me give you an example of ad absurdum. All of a sudden, months later, it turns out that the budget did not include spending on prisoners' accommodation. [[unintelligible]] He won't be able to run prisons according to the government's words. I must say that even a colleague of Michálek, who suffers from the diagnosis of anti-babish, had a pretty good idea when he argued about whether - and I visited a prison where there was actually a man who didn't pay child support, and the state... had to work, the state took his money, and instead maybe we should think about it. But I guess the lady here meant something completely different. But I'm sure there are reserves here where it might save some money. But we'll see. We will then see that the prisoners are freed to feed themselves as they can. Or another example. If it is found that it is not for the payment of a care allowance for persons who are no longer able to take care of themselves, will they not be approved in a similar legislative emergency, referring to economic damage, to reform the health assessment, where, as was done in the past, the affected will be healed in an instant on paper? I think this is a really dangerous edge that the government is walking on, if it were to become a way to circumvent the opposition and the proper changes in the law, so that the government can approve what it wants. How much will remain of the rule of law and security for citizens? Asks the lady. I'm certainly not the only one who's worried about these questions. Thank you for your attention. As our elected representatives, I believe you are aware of the difficult situation of every citizen in the Czech Republic. I understand that changes are needed, and this time puts the whole Republic to the test, but I'm sure the poorest ones should not be the first to get hurt. I do not doubt, of course, that the average and higher than the average pension is now at a good level, but the average is the average. You know the chicken story where two people have half a chicken each, but one eats the whole one, and the other has nothing. [[13.50 hours]] In this regard, I can commend the government's idea of increasing the basic pension component to help those with smaller pensions, but unfortunately that is all. The rest is chaos and amoral progress on how to step up against everything - opposition, current law and citizens' opinion, I would say. I am not going to talk about the fact that this proposal has unleashed an even greater hatred between generations. This is the result of the inconsistent and chaotic screams into darkness and change, when something is approved, just so that it should change again shortly. For example, the current debate on the adaptation of recently approved education, which has not even been paid to some of the pensioners to whom it has been granted. They're steps like an elephant dancing in porcelain. Please try to imagine how you would live today as retired people if you could. And then vote for your conscience and love for your parents or grandparents. Well, we can't do it. They can't. And I can imagine. By the way, they have spinach soup here for 15 crowns in Beseda. And the lady here said she had it now, the food for 130. Okay, I'm not gonna deal with that. Someone's looking at me wrong here. Please try to imagine how you would live today as retired people if you could. And then vote for your conscience and love for your parents or grandparents. Old people, not by their own fault, have become hostages in today's turbulent time of high energy prices and all life costs. However, they can no longer help themselves in most cases compared to a healthy and younger population. Thank you for your attention and have a good day. So... Next, to whom the new totalitarianism has denied the constitutional right to speak, is colleague Babka. Ladies and gentlemen, for members of the government's five-wheeler, I will briefly remind you of what the state of legislative emergency serves and what we have such an opportunity for in the Czech Republic. The state of legislative emergency, the provisions of Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, may be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. In some cases, it may be necessary to adopt the law quickly, provided that there are particularly serious reasons why interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. We all remember this type of situation, for example it is a threat to citizens of the Czech Republic due to pandemics or it may be different natural disasters. Luckily, we don't remember anyone else. It was a threat to the security of the state as a result of the war. Even though we're still haunted by the Chief of Staff here. Missiles will fly here. Oh, hell. This legislative regulation is intended to serve in completely objective situations where the use of this institute has its logic. However, in vain, in the legal reasons for declaring a legislative emergency, we are looking for the laziness of the Minister of Finance, the attempt to present marketing a lower deficit of the state budget than its real amount, or waiting until the moment the presidential campaign ends. These are the reasons I really look for in Czech legislation in vain. In my opinion, however, the use of an extraordinary institute of legislative emergency as a normal instrument to limit legislative procedure by a parliamentary majority cannot be accepted whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption uses the rules of procedure laid down by the Rules of Procedure. But that is what is happening and that is what is happening. So let me get this straight. Neither of the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency has been met. There is no threat to the security of the state, there is no threat of economic damage to the state. But unfortunately, this step taken by the government is threatened by the rights and freedoms of citizens. What, then, are the reasons behind the government's actions? Steps that, according to a number of lawyers, are unconstitutional? It is the responsibility of the members of the government coalition to deal with matters in time. This meeting is the result of the deceiving of voters who have already practiced in the elections. It's the result of waiting for the presidential election to end. Similarly, by changing the program statement, only the government's five-wheeler shows how she tricked voters in the election when she promised the impossible. If our Republic is threatened by something, it is the rule of this five-wheeler, as the former Minister for the ODS Tlustý, that it is the government of the national tragedy. Unfortunately, the five-calice government is trying to silence our voice as opposition. They try to avoid a general debate, try to prevent further speeches. But we are no longer a democracy. You have trampled the principles of democracy upon which our state is founded. It is imperative that we have a debate in order to preserve democracy. However, our view is that a legislative emergency should only be used exceptionally and in cases where it is necessary to maintain the security and stability of the State. In addition, legislative emergency should only be used in situations where no other solution is possible. It should mostly be used only for a short period of time and with limited scope. In addition, it should always be monitored and checked to be able to react quickly. If the situation permits, go back to the normal legislative process. You're taking advantage of this opportunity to rob our pensioners. This is a group of citizens who can no longer defend themselves. Today, no one expects seniors to go out into the streets in bulk. Well, the idea with the electricity would be nice, maybe. You're the abusers, de facto, the pensioners are the only savings you've had in over a year... to offer. By its very nature, this group is already a low-income group. You argue that their pension is supposed to reach up to 50 percent of the average wage. Well, it's just that the wages don't go up like we do. But that's just proof that seniors are a low-income group. If we have a problem here, it is a completely unprecedented decline in real wages in the Czech Republic, which is the highest not only in modern history but also from all OECD countries. And according to data from the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic and Minister Stanjury, this decline is to continue in 2023. Moreover, it is quite obvious that you can verify this for the inflation of pensioners' households that, given the main elements of current inflation, which is demolished by the price of food and energy, the low-income groups are worse off. The average consumer price index for 2022 for households is a total of 115,1, i.e. 15,1% extra. Thus, for the average Czech household, inflation is 15.1 percent, for pensioners' households it is higher, and this is 15.6. Moreover, it is clear from the Czech Statistical Office that the difference between the total consumer price index of households and the consumer price index of pensioners households increases significantly over time, this is retirement inflation, and it is growing more over time. Besides, the meds aren't even for them yet. Today, the lonely seniors no longer have the power to spare. They give a large part of the expenditure for basic food, housing, energy, plus they are poor with savings, so there is no room for them to go into savings saved. You want them - says Mr. Babka - to send, ask, retirees, for benefits such as housing allowance and the like. And that is one thing from the public budget point of view, or the State will give funds to pensioners in the form of pensions or benefits. It's like I'm taking a coat out of one or the other. As a result, I just have less money in my coat. These steps are just stressful for retired people who have to ask for benefits, which is complicated for them. This creates additional administrative costs in the order of considerable amounts. Again, I must say - says Mr. Babka - very stupid. You want to deprive each of the 2.7 million pensioners in the Czech Republic of 7 000 crowns this year and more than 12 000 crowns each year of their lives. Your argument that you didn't know about this valorization is completely odd. Already the Ministry of Finance's fiscal outlook in November 2022 pointed out that in the beginning of 2023 there would be a high probability of valorisation of pensions. I quote: "The tide in the following year will also have the costs of this year's extraordinary valuations for the corresponding part of the year, and the prediction of expected price developments does not rule out further exceptional valorisation in the middle of next year. According to the current forecast, inflation could exceed 6 percent in the June index session in January 2023. [[14.00 hours]] This is the material of the Ministry of Finance itself, your ministry. But I understand the Minister of Finance and his advisory apparatus have clearly not read this document. He is quite extensive, he has up to 70 pages. A month later, the National Budget Board issued its opinion. That's what you're thinking. One of the government's five-calibers might be able to pick him up. It was significantly more concise than the 70-page publication of the Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic. The National Budget Board specifically said: The approved budget is also burdened with a high degree of uncertainty. The risk in the direction of a higher deficit is expenditure on exceptional pension valorisation in 2023. Based on the expected inflation trend, it can be estimated that the 5% threshold of consumer price increases from the date relevant for determining the level of sound valuation will be exceeded in January 2023, which will mean the launch of an extraordinary valuation of pension insurance benefits in June. Everyone knows, just the government didn't know. I don't get it. Moreover, the National Budget Board also stresses that these funds are not included in the State budget and, given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that they can be covered by savings under other State budget items. And this is where we're getting why there's been a change in pension valorization. [[on top of that]] The pensioners today are supposed to be the only real savings presented by the current five-wheelers. It's really scandalous. If you hadn't canceled the EET, you'd have the pension funds perfectly fine. No one will remember that today. In addition, you aim to make it feel that the current pensioners are making debt increase. Lie. It increases the negative moods between the working-active part of the population and pensioners. It is an insidious effort by the five-wheelers to make the elderly feel ashamed for perhaps getting what is legally theirs. You are actually actively opposed to social reconciliation. It's all wrong. And Mr Babka asks why pensioners are to be defended by their legal claim by five coalitions, which has not yet introduced the only relevant budget savings. Thanks to inflation, the government has record revenues, which it also collects from pensioners. Five-callices deliberately don't talk about this income. The valuation of pensions is determined by the sum of the growth of the consumer price index, respectively. the cost of living index of pensioners, whichever is higher, and one half of the growth of real wages. This amendment applies from 1 January 2018 as a result of the adoption of Act No. 203/2017 Coll. The valuation shall be carried out once a year on 1 January and except where inflation is at least 5% from the end of the previous relevant period. This system has been designed precisely for situations like today, and its purpose is primarily to offset the growth in life costs. I would like to point out at this point that its aim is not to increase pensions. It doesn't even increase real income. Even this system is relatively disadvantageous at a time of such high falling inflation. In fact, the calculation of extraordinary valuation will take place on the basis of the situation that has already occurred, and pensioners will not really be raised until June. But in this period, between January and June, they must bear even higher prices with their original pensions. Plus, they're still rising today. You're saying that the seniors are doing very well because of their average wage, which is why you have to put your hands on it. It's a stupid argument. Please, once again, don't talk about how well retired people are financially well. It's not true. Come out of House 4 and go for a walk sometime among the people, how the elderly are really well. Perhaps many of you would be very surprised. Retirements are really something with a poor valorization. The fact that other people are poor is the fault of this government. Yes, of course. Real wages in this government have fallen by 8.5% in the EU. So it's wrong again. So much for Mr. Babka. Then I have a Monika Oborná here. Ladies and gentlemen, in a state of legislative emergency, we are discussing an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which reduces the legal value of pensions. A state of legislative emergency may be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. I agree with the government that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are at risk, but only if this bill is passed. According to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, there is a significant risk of significant economic damage if the State's proposal is not approved. Well, then who invented this? According to him, Valorisation of pensions without approved adjustments would mean an increase in public finance deficits. However, the Constitutional Court has laid down completely different criteria for declaring a legislative emergency. The threat of an increase in deficit cannot therefore be a reason for declaring a legislative emergency. Government officials often complain that the opposition wants to reduce budget deficits while criticizing every government's proposal for austerity. Well, I don't remember any draft austerity measures. But it was Petr Fiala, along with other opposition leaders back then -- they're talking about it, 100 billion, 70 billion, and nothing -- who said before the election that they were consolidating the budget without raising taxes and saving money on people. So if we are asking the impossible today, they were the ones who promised the impossible, and now we just want them to keep their own promises. Instead, we see a live breach of promises. And it's not just election vows that don't apply anymore. vloni summer, the Minister of Finance Stanjura claimed that pensioners need not be afraid of changing the mechanism of valorisation of pensions, and boasted that it was the ODS, specifically the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you see, he was thinking about retired people, Petr Nečas, that's for the head, the adolescence mind of retired people, and KDU-ČSL is fighting against pensioners. The world's gone crazy. Who has advocated that extraordinary valorisation should be sufficient when the sum of the monthly inflation exceeds 5%, not the original 10. In November last year, Prime Minister Fiala repeatedly refused in the media that pension valorisation should be threatened due to savings. The government boasted of increasing pensions by an extraordinary valuation, which - and I quote: It will help all seniors who suffer from high energy prices, rising inflation and rising fuel prices, the Prime Minister explained. That's why the Prime Minister took the pensioners' fare discount. June 1st, 2022. Because Babiš, right... Age must not be a period of uncertainty and concern. That's the password from Petr Fiala's Facebook page. Everything's different today. Today it is this government, an antisocial government, that has put seniors in a period of uncertainty and concern. The government is often making excuses for unforeseen circumstances that frustrate their plans. Most often, it's a war in Ukraine. But all economists expected a January jumping rise in inflation. The Czech National Bank also predicted the acceleration of inflation compared to December. The only one who didn't count on it was the Minister of Finance when presenting the state budget for this year, which didn't allocate a crown to extraordinary valorisation. But he found the money. That's a great minister. At the same time, it was clear in advance that at least one valorisation of pensions would be necessary this year. Therefore, do not now want to tell us that something that could not be anticipated has happened. We can argue that we have to anticipate the notorious failure of the government coalition's promises. Yes, in 430 days, the government didn't do anything. But there have been limits to that, too, so far. Now all the lines of thought are crossed. It is not only that the government reduces the valorisation of pensions at a time when many people face existential crises and serious financial problems due to expensive energies, food, rents and housing overall, but also that they do so in violation of constitutional rights. The government's proposal to limit pension valorisation removes pension rights already acquired and thus violates their guaranteed fundamental right to protect legitimate expectations. A number of pensioners have already counted on an increased pension to cover the increased rent, which takes place automatically on the basis of inflation clauses in rental contracts after the New Year. They won't be able to do it now. [[14.10 hours]] The government repeats the mantra that pensions grow in an unprecedented way. But he forgets to add that the cost of living has also increased unprecedentedly. And we're at inflation again, and we're at that they're unable to bring inflation down because they don't want to. The government completely unsystemically, backwards and unconstitutionally regulates the valorisation framework, as well as the government's favored lawyers and economists point out, and that it is. The proposed proposal is therefore completely unacceptable to us, because you are taking money from the most vulnerable, our seniors, parents, grandparents, and you are trampling their fundamental rights. The government treats seniors like notorious so-called scumbags. - I just remembered that MEP, what's his name, who worked for them and kept talking in the media. I'd rather not comment on that. - At least they left overpriced blankets and pots, but unfortunately there will be nothing left after this government to Czech seniors. Maybe the next retirees are even worse off, and by that I mean my generation. I was born in 1989, says Monika Oborná, and most of my friends and classmates are revolutionary generations. Now comes Minister Jurečka with a plan, Minister of Social Affairs, that our generation will retire in 68. Can you imagine? Not me, says Monika Oborná. - I'm 68, but I'm... nothing. [[Fun and laughter in the hall.]] I read today that I am 90 percent of the politician even. - So I'd like to ask you in this place, says Monika Oborná, the next time you go to the election and you vote on our future, the future of our generation, so remember that. - That's what you're asking the government, okay? Or citizens? [[The answer from the diaper.]] Politics. Voters. Voters. But voters watch the Czech TV, and the other pro-government media, they always forget. Then think about it. According to Prime Minister Fiala, this is an increase in the retirement age. Again, Mr. Jurečka speculated, that was incredible, leaving at 68, but leaving it to the next government. Do you understand that? I don't understand. What about Řecko? That's 62, isn't it? And they're fine. Europe's fine. According to Prime Minister Fiala, this is an increase in the retirement age, and so far it is only proposals. They say the government will present a change of pension in April. Did he say a year? In April 2023, says the Prime Minister. It must be said, however, that last year the same Prime Minister Petr Fiala claimed that the government would not increase the retirement age during its term - yes, I think he said that in November in Progovernment Lightning - retirement, there is no reason for that, he said. After three months, this is absolutely necessary. What changed? What's wrong? Nothing's changed. The ODS always promised before the election, and after the election it was different. Are we getting older faster this year? Was anyone wrong about the decimal point? Or is it because there are no more elections this year? We don't know. While it is true that life expectancy is slowly increasing, a number of people are not enjoying their old age in good health. It is therefore an illusion that most people, at the age of 68, would be able to perform even a profession with a medium burden, let alone a profession physically or psychologically demanding. Well, I don't know if I should take it personally, but I'm good. Psychically demanding. No, I'm fine, I'm sorry. No, we did, and I hope, and it also turned out that paramedics, we pushed this place to retire early, didn't we? That's right, as far as I can remember. So I think the profession, yes, we didn't agree between the MPSV and the health department then, and Minister Válek now said it was scandalous, he had a conversation again, Babiš himself, that he would actually connect it now, Mr Jurečka and his, and that it would work perfectly. Logically, these two resorts should have stayed the way our ancestors built them. There's even a hallway between those buildings now, isn't there? It was supposed to be together. Well, by having the coalitions, of course... but maybe they will. The hope of survival is a statistical figure that says nothing about the quality of life. In fact, the extension of age represents a future burden for the health and social system rather than a source directly from the workers for the pension system. Instead of calculating statistically accurate, but in the result of completely misleading numbers, we need to focus on growth in productivity and wealth of society, which allows fewer workers to feed more pensioners. Rather than extending the retirement age across the board, the government should look for ways, I think how to shorten it, how to motivate people to postpone retirement on their own terms. But, of course, that's up to people. And those who worked hard are entitled to it. However, nothing like this has so far been heard in government proposals. Instead, just cuts and scares people into going to work as long as they stay on their feet, says Monika Oborná. And here is another - Mr Tomáš Helebrant, who has also been denied the right, constitutional right, to speak. That's what Tomáš Helebrant says. Ladies and gentlemen, at today's meeting, we have already dealt with the state of legislative emergency, or whether the House will extend it or cancel its term. We're past that, but let's do the important thing again. Unfortunately, this government has been in power for more than a year, and we have gotten a little used to bending laws, double-crossings and unfair negotiations. However, what the President of the House and the Government's TOP 09, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, has shown in recent weeks, says Mr Helebrant, is indeed beyond all limits not only the foundations of decent and fair conduct, but also in the opinion of leading constitutional lawyers and the limits of laws. In his Twitter social network account, Constitutional Lawyer Marek Antoš stated the following following following the announcement of a state of legislative emergency: 6 Constitutions are based on the political decisions of the majority expressed by free vote, majority decisions are made to protect minorities, three dots. However, the state of legislative emergency can only be declared under the JŘ PSP law in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage are significantly threatened. The case in which the government did not respond in time to the developments that have been known for a number of months now, at the last minute, is trying to enforce the amendment of the law and is afraid of obstruction of the opposition, certainly cannot be regarded as extraordinary circumstances. It is good to remember that we have experienced a very similar situation before. In 2010, the government wanted to reduce support for building savings, but it was afraid it would be damaged in the autumn elections to the Senate and the municipal councils. Therefore, it did not submit the proposal until just after the election, but at the same time it needed its approval to be completed by the end of the year. The opposition threatened obstruction, so the government asked for a state of legislative emergency and passed the law. The opposition Members therefore turned to the Constitutional Court and concluded that the law had not been adopted properly and therefore abolished it as unconstitutional. Today's situation differs only in one way or another. It was not yet a clear question, while today we have the Constitutional Court's decision at our disposal. Mr Antoš here mentions the conclusion of the plenary of the Constitutional Court, in which we will find the central legal sentence: An announcement of the state of legislative emergency and the discussion of the draft law in the short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and limits its substance to the very expression of consent or opposition. This procedure can only be accepted as an exception to the rule, provided that the interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process. As has already been pointed out by the authority primarily responsible for assessing whether this is a situation, it is the government and then the Chamber of Deputies, not the Constitutional Court. However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal tool to limit parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption by the Rules of Procedure. [[14.20 hours]] Today, we are in exactly this situation. The government is trying to push for a reduction in pension valorization, which is unacceptable for us, the YES movement. Our movement has always based on a solidarity approach to the most vulnerable, logically preventing the adoption of such a law, because pensioners have always been our priority. But our priority was all citizens of this country. That's why we're a catch-all party, party, movement for everyone, for all the citizens. Therefore, it cannot be tolerated that the government is using the state of legislative emergency as a tool to literally force and, contrary to the Constitutional Court's case law, push through a completely antisocial bill by which it effectively degrades pensioners. There are important reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency. And at this point and in this situation, the justification is the possibility of causing extraordinary economic damage. Unbelievable. Such a reason alone simply cannot stand. That's for sure, because there's no damage. The authors of the comments on the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies came to this conclusion: To declare a state of legislative emergency on account of major economic damage, it is necessary to accept the seriousness measured following the constitutional law on security. At the same time, the security of the state or the rights and freedoms of citizens must be significantly threatened. This applies in particular to situations where a decision on the use of a state of legislative emergency has not been reached consensually or at least by a majority necessary for the adoption of a constitutional law. The rights and freedoms of citizens in this case are indeed at risk. But very ironically, the government itself threatens them by trying to rob seniors in broad daylight and thereby endangering, for example, the constitutionally guaranteed right of human dignity. Citation from the social network I started my Twitter speech - says Mr Helebrant - and allow me to end, by quoting from this network, the part of him devoted to deciding whether or not to support the legislative emergency. We will return for some Friday, namely until November 2021, when the newly elected President of the House, Mrs Pekarová, Adamová, asked for a better justification for the last government to declare a state of legislative emergency. When Minister Maláčová, at the time, took the liberty of arguing that the justification would come, but the situation where over 20,000 covido-infected are increasing daily, is the justification in itself, the President replied: "Dear Mrs Maláčová, I really believe that the justification is necessary. I do not want to continue the trend established by the current government, when the law has been circumvented and, at the same time, the Constitutional Court finding that the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency have been clearly defined. For me, the rule of law is not just a word." So cool. Especially when reading the last two sentences, I remembered the name of a song by American composer Bob Dylan, who was singing Golden Kids in Czech. The title of the song is "Times change." And all I can say is that Mr Helebrant says that, while the President honoured the Constitutional Court's finding a year and a half ago, this is no longer the case today for some reason. But I have good news for the President and the whole government, says Mr. Helebrant. If you continue today with the same step, believe that the Constitutional Court will prepare a new, better, but with the same result. Well, I wouldn't be sure if Mr. Haas here is telling us how it's gonna be at the Constitutional Court, he knows ahead of time. - You can't get away with this. - Well, let's see, let's hope. For these reasons, we did not support the duration of the state of legislative emergency as the YES movement and we do not think that there would be sufficient conditions for the discussion of the press itself in the shortened negotiations. Even like the vast majority of you, I have received many emails, says Mr Helebrant, in which governments complain about this process. And it wasn't just retirement e-mails, as some might think. Such e-mails have come and gone from people of working age, for they also feel that the government is trying to damage a part of their family, or they simply resent the way in which the government acts. For example, on the weekend I received an email from a lady who has been working for almost 35 years as a nurse in a hospital for surgery and emergency reception. She wrote to me directly - I quote: "Dear Member, these steps by the Czech Government are fundamentally putting the dignity of people who have worked their whole lives, their health, the quality of life at risk. I therefore ask you not to support these steps of the Government in the legislative process." He may be listening to the House of Deputies at this very moment, and therefore he sees that not only I, but we will not support the entire ANO movement. We will stand up for all the hard-working people in the past who are legally entitled to a fair valorisation of their pensions. However, we will also stand up for all members of their common homes and families. Yes, they're whole families. Whole families, because this government idea is bad for everyone. There are no sufficiently strong reasons for discussing this press in a short hearing. It is only the government's inability to deal with important things right away, which is a quality that it lacks from the start of its mandate, and it is going to continue to do so. Once again, we're watching a hundred-eight-ball cavalry stomp on everything in its way. Unfortunately, including real democracy and the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The YES movement will not support the discussion of this press in a short hearing, says Mr Helebrant and thanks. And Mr Helebrant goes on and says: The YES Movement has not supported the duration of the legislative emergency or the discussion of this press in a brief hearing. The YES movement does not, of course, support the efforts of this government to turn Czech pensioners into thousands of crowns a month, this year it is CZK 7,000 on average, which, by the way, belongs to them by law. We all got a lot of e-mails from people who don't like this effort. There were a lot of them. The government is still pretending that it has no idea how big an axe between the company has been shut down by this proposal and, above all, by the way it tries to enforce it. In the news from citizens, it is very often repeated - I quote: "Dear Member, these steps by the Czech Government fundamentally threaten the dignified lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger." And it really is. The social peace has already been disrupted by the government, and in a way some Members go even further on social networks when they openly oppose the young against the old. In doing so, other solutions need to be sought to ensure the sustainability of the pension system than merely to reduce the pension amount or increase the retirement age. The government should focus mainly on finding other sources of funding for the pension system, which will not come from employees' pockets. In the post office, we didn't just end up with e-mails from the citizens themselves, but a lot of them came from various employment organizations and trade unions. Everyone agrees this is wrong. After all, in recent days we have been able to read in the media that there are many coalition senators who have doubts about your proposal for humiliation. And even President Petr Pavel, says Mr Helebrant, expressed his doubts as a citizen at the press conference. Well, okay, well, let's hope that the President, when he's finally president, will express himself as a citizen, and he'll work it out. And the Constitutional Court doesn't have to deal with that. Or Mr. Fiala may change his mind, but it doesn't look like it yet. The fundamental doubts are repeated. These are mainly the ones about inappropriate use of the state of legislative emergency and retroactivity. Do the five-calice majority in the Chamber of Deputies really need to go head-to-head against everyone like that? Especially when the Minister of Finance Stanjura in the television debate says that - I quote freely - "if it doesn't pass, the budget will deal with it"? Oh, great. říkat Mr. Helebrant. [[14.30 hours]] And what does Mr. David Štolpa say? I would like to comment on the current House of Press 392, which is a government amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. The whole essence of this amendment is actually simple and precisely in the spirit of the conduct and governance of the government of Petr Fiala unsystemic, insensitive and antisocial. In a period of unprecedentedly high inflation, the percentage of the pension due to inflation should be increased by 2,3% and, on top of that, by 400 crowns. The average old-age pension would thus increase according to the documents of the law on 760 CZK instead of CZK 1,770, which would increase according to the current rules. The government wants to save CZK 1,000 a month on every senior in the Czech Republic. So 7,000 this year and next year 12,000 and so on. And I just remind you that at the end of last year, more than 2.84 million people received a pension from the Czech Social Security Administration, of which 2.37 million had an old-age pension. General inflation means general price level growth over time. The statistical expression of inflation is based on the measurement of net price changes using the consumer price index. The price indices measure the price level of the selected basket of around 450 representative products and services in two comparative periods, while the weight attributed to each price representative in the consumer basket corresponds to the share of the type of consumption they represent in the total consumption of households. In 2023 and 2022 inflation is mainly driven by energy prices, housing, water, energy, gas and food. However, the growth of these items has more impact on low-income households. Pensioners' households are essentially low-income, even if they are to have a ratio to the average wage at half the average wage after valorisation. So it is clear that current inflation has hit the poorest households the most, and it is precisely the cost of living that has increased most, often the elderly. In addition, those with higher incomes have more options to control the effects of inflation. But the recipe is simple: 1,500 megawatts buy out ČEZ, and now! Call the general meeting, Prime Minister. It won't cost you anything. I don't know why you don't want to be successful. The average consumer price index for the year 2022 for households is 115.1 in total, that is to say 15.1 plus, for senior households it is 15.6. It is clear that the difference between the total consumer price index of households and the consumer price index of senior households increases significantly over time, i.e. retirement inflation is growing more over time. Lonely seniors no longer have much left to save. They give a large part of the expenditure for basic food, housing, energy, and, moreover, they are bad with savings, and there is no room for them to reach savings saved. So the government takes nearly 3 million seniors hostage by their incompetence, lethargy, and godliness. Experts warned the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs last year, namely the government, that due to inflation it would be necessary to proceed to extraordinary valorisation. Something wrong? No. Once again, the government, as is its custom and its main characteristic, did nothing at all. I think it's been waiting for this whole debilitating series of elections to end. And only then did they want to tell people the truth that pensioners who are legitimately looking forward to more than fifteen hundred will eventually get a few, says economist and commentator David Klimeš. Yes, that's right, the government says so. - I mean, Mr. David Štolpa here is quoting it. - Yes, it is. Petr Fiala's government threw all seniors overboard just to get her government candidate's castle. Until she succeeded. It's time to put citizens before reality and actually done. The current government has been screaming from the opposition for so many years, how it can do better. She counseled, lectured, and disciplined until she had the opportunity to govern herself. - jo, that's what they said before the election, everything's good, everything's gonna be great. - And only the above shows how clearly it failed. Just as its incompetence takes away the most necessary ones in this case, and it is no wonder that so much media-loved government loses the support and trust of citizens. Well, the media is still trying to paint it. No? At the moment. It's the Bakalovs, they're still telling us how successful the presidency was... Yeah, neither did the euro. And green hell. That's the success. None of it came out. To be specific, Mr Štolpa says, I will borrow a few media headlines: Petr Fiala's Government trusts only 28 percent of the population of the Czech Republic, found out by the Center for Public Opinion Research, wrote Czech Radio last July. The government of Petr Fiala does not trust 55 percent of Čech, Czech citizens. People are most upset by rising energy prices, reports the headlines of Hospodářské noviny from last September. In July, we could read on the News List that 84 percent of people claim that the government is not trying hard enough to prevent a significant increase in poverty in the Czech Republic. And at the end of August, 84 percent of the citizens did not trust this government. That's what Mr. Štolpa says. Well, that's in a nutshell. And why should anyone trust this government? This government has infamously entered history as a government that has looked at the highest poverty of the population in the last 20 years and has done nothing against it, just sending signals, advising people to wear sweaters, and actually bagging their entire situation. Of course, high energy prices are also affecting the elderly, and the seniors also do not have the opportunity to make extra money on the weekend. Although the government seems to think so through its ideas of a later retirement age. No one is likely to be surprised that this government has attributed itself to a number of firsts, or rather, the government has given us all the firsts. So in the list: First place for the biggest decline in real wages for people in OECD countries. First place for the highest annual electricity price growth in all EU countries. First place at the highest electricity prices in the EU, expressed by the purchasing power of the population. First place at the highest price of electricity in the EU expressed by the purchasing power of the population. - He's got that twice. The current government has made it clear during its failure to manage the money of citizens, taxpayers, and only last year, and this year it will owe us all $600 billion, or the government will only think so or hope so. Every public finance expert will tell you that this year's planned budget deficit is unrealistic and very watery. All this in a situation where, thanks to inflation, which the government does not address, it improved its budget revenues by 137 billion more last year. Where's the savings? Where are the tens of billions of crowns of savings - says Mr Štolpa - that government parties waved before the elections? I don't see any government savings anywhere, but what I see today is that the government's efforts to take away the money they're legally entitled to from seniors the money that the seniors need today and because of the incompetence of this government in order to ensure at least the basic needs. And Mr Štolpa continues here: At today's extraordinary 55th meeting we are to discuss the government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on pension insurance, in other words, we are here today to discuss the form and amount of pension for our seniors for the future. However, before I get to the very issue of pensions, I would first like to speak to the procedure itself in order to discuss this amendment by the government and here through the government majority, namely the negotiation of this law in a state of legislative emergency, which is just another foul of this government. Foul on our legal system, foul on credibility in the state authorities, and in the end, of course, foul on citizens, or in this case seniors. I'm just reminding you that the government doesn't want to risk her failing to approve a reduction in pension valorisation here in the House. It therefore reached a state of legislative emergency. The amendment of the law could thus be discussed in an accelerated mode and, above all, with restrictions on the appearance of legislators, especially of us oppositions. The House President Markéta Pekarová Adamová declared a state of legislative emergency, which, not even a year and a half ago, in November 2021, was then criticizing the state of the legislative emergency from the opposition position and calling loudly for its justification. On her Twitter she then wrote - and I quote: "I do not want to continue the trend established by the current government, when the law was being circumvented and at the same time the Constitutional Court found that the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency were clearly defined. For me, the rule of law is not just a word." As you can see, in those less than 15 months, the rule of law for Madam President is just an empty word, says Mr. Štolpa. Because she didn't fall from the sky today to a government that's terrified of a mandatory pension valorization. That's not news from the last few days. The government knew about it, it should have dealt with the situation considerably earlier, and just as the government did not bother and still does not bother to deal with the underlying cause, i.e. enormously high inflation in the Czech Republic, it did not bother to put pressure on the more significant mandatory valuation of pensions. And now he wants to use the state of legislative emergency as an alibis emergency brake. But our country doesn't need an alibi government, it needs a government that controls the country. [[14.40 hours]] I would also like to remind you that in 2011, the Constitutional Court was already concerned with the legitimacy of declaring a state of legislative emergency and concluded that the state of legislative emergency and accelerated negotiations were intended to prevent threats to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, threats to the security of the state or significant economic damage. Yes, that's right. Neither of these conditions meets the current issue of pension valorisation. Or perhaps the valorisation of pensions threatens the security of our state? Of course he's not. It doesn't even make sense to talk about the fact that there is considerable economic damage if the State pays the elderly the money that it is supposed to pay them out of the law. This argument simply limps. Constitutional lawyer Marek Antoš made it clear on this topic that the case where the government did not respond in time to developments known for many months and now at the last moment or perhaps even later trying to enforce a change of law and is afraid of obstruction of the opposition cannot be regarded as extraordinary circumstances. It is good to remember that we have experienced a very similar situation before. In 2010, the government wanted to reduce support for building savings, but it was afraid it would be damaged in the autumn elections to the Senate and municipal councils. Today's situation differs only in one thing: it was not yet a clear question, while today we already have the Constitutional Court's decision. When the government knew all last year about inflation, its level in the second half of 2022 and in January 2023 it was not possible to call inflation extraordinary and unexpected in February 2023. According to the constitutional expert Zdeněk Koudelka, this is also an abuse of the instrument of the state of legislative emergency. I consider declaring a state of legislative emergency to be inconvenient because it is intended for things that come suddenly, such as floods, and their consequences will have to be dealt with urgently. But the fact that we have record inflation and that certain provisions are in force in the Act on the Valorisation of Pensions, the government knew all year round and could already come in September or October in a normal legislative process with some solution, points out Professor Koudelka. To make matters worse, the five-calice government is once again divided in its position, and already the risk arises that the amendment to this law approved in a state of legislative emergency will not pass the Senate - so I don't know where my colleague came up with it, I think the Senate is clear about it, that is part of the new totalitarianism, where the five-calice government has a majority. It's unconstitutional in two planes. In addition to the legislative emergency, it is also retroactivity. The conditions for extraordinary valorisation were already fulfilled on 31 January, said Senator Michael Canov of STAN. For example, he reminds us that the current situation is not even extraordinary, because extraordinary valorization was known in advance. We'll discuss it when it gets to us. The President of the Senate, Miloš Vystrčil, also refused to tell the ODS whether the government senators would automatically support the draft. He says he's not happy with the procedure. Oh, please, there's hope here too. Let's do it again. She's got nothing new and nothing unexpected about the situation of extraordinary pension valorization. The government knew about it, and it should have dealt with the situation considerably earlier. But just as the government did not bother and still does not bother to deal with the underlying cause, i.e. enormously high inflation in the Czech Republic, it did not bother to put pressure on the more mandatory valuation of pensions hand in hand with this economic phenomenon. And now he wants to use the state of legislative emergency as an alibis emergency brake. But our country doesn't need an alibi government. He needs a government that controls the country. When the government knew all last year about inflation, its level in the second half of 2022 and in January 2023 cannot be described as extraordinary and unexpected only in February 2023. I'd like to drop by on the weekend's comments from the Treasury Secretary Stanjura. First of all, I consider it extremely irresponsible of his statement on Sunday's questions to Václav Moravec that he is perfectly fine as Minister of Finance when 20 billion mandatory expenses are not written into the state budget and then we deal with it. - Well, please. That's just an incredible expression by any minister, let alone the finance minister. I think he's got some secret funds. It undermines not only the sustainability of the state budget but, above all, its credibility. Well, since the weekend didn't go well for Minister Stanjur, but he was happy, I'd like to stop by his statement on the News server. The Minister is said to have heard that this year's budget will include pension valorisation, even if the government coalition fails to pass today's proposal to reduce it. Well, I really don't understand, says Mr. David Štolpa. Well, I think the situation is clear. It's unconstitutional, money is, Mr. Jurečka's view of saving money somewhere is nonsense. The view is by 2025, they don't know for themselves what's going to be 2023, so we can only hope - and see when we're gonna get cut today, and maybe not, but I think so - that the Senate and especially the President will be crucial to him, eventually he'll understand that it's ridiculous, it's scandalous to talk about our pensioners causing some damage. They built this country, our beautiful country, and unfortunately this government is destroying it. So the YES movement will continue to fight for our pensioners. We're gonna do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen, because it's small for the government, but it's important money for seniors. So this concludes my contribution so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u97	Thank you for your contribution and I note one point of fact with which Mrs Olga Richterová is applied for. And Marian Jurečka. I'll read the apologies first. Today, from 11 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Igor Hendrych apologizes, from 12.15 to 13.30 for family reasons, Mr Ondřej Lochman and from 13 to 18 o'clock for personal reasons Jan Richter and from 10 to 13 o'clock for work reasons Minister Vlastimil Válek. I do not see Mrs Richterová here, in which case I will ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for his factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u98	I would ask that Mr. Andrej Babiš not leave yet. He always comes in here, says a three-four-hour speech that turns six times, seven times the topics, then goes home, sleeps there, leaves his coworkers and coworkers here holding the whole night shift, and comes back. I'm here all the time in the House, if I'm not here in the hall, I'm here in the State Act, so I've been listening to his recycling speech for about the fourth time this week. I'd like to tell him that this is something he should know as former finance minister, as prime minister. These are publicly available data on how the pension account will develop in the Czech Republic, that is, how expenditures that will not be covered will develop, social insurance contributions. It's a prediction that's quite accurate. I think everyone who was with his colleagues at the college in the government came into contact with the data. And if I put it quite simply, by 2023, the deficit is going to get below minus 1% of GDP, which is somewhere around 80 billion crowns, and by 2050, it's going to get below minus 5% if we don't do anything. And logically - yesterday I explained it, I'm very sorry that he wasn't here, he wasn't here about that eleven o'clock yesterday, when I had a fairly clear explanation, then I had the justification again in the evening time when we really started discussing this particular point, so I again explained how it is with the impact on the state budget this year, how it is with the impact on the state budget in the next year and how it is with the roughly prospects of those ten years. I described it here. So maybe I'll ask you, I'm just being factual right now, so I just want to say that if he or his assistants pulled out a tape screen, maybe mine, he'll find it very well-founded. And it's gonna be great if he's here with us the whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u99	Thank you. A number of factual points were made. First will be Mrs Olga Richterová, then Mrs Alena Schillerová, Mrs Vildumetzová and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of one more thing. Because of such speeches, speeches that are repeated forever, so it's not just us, it's not just the ministers, but there are all the employees here. I want to stress that these are the limits of democratic functioning. A speech that sounds a lot of lies, a lot of things that are directly contrary to reality, a speech that is meant to divide society, unfortunately, that's how I perceived it, and they completely ignore that it's a choice. It is the choice of the YES movement and the choice of the SPD that we will be here like this. It's their choice that the tens and tens of hours here are spent in such speeches where the growth of truth, half-truth, and complete lies. And I just want to point out, in conclusion, that I really appreciate parliamentary democracy, I understand that obstruction is part of it, but I am really sorry that because of the scale that these two opposition parties have resorted to today, many of these employees are already completely on the verge. It just seems to me like it's out of line! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u101	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Alena Schillerová and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Vice-President Richterová, through the Vice-President, do you know why we feel sorry for our employees? We feel sorry for them because you decided to act overnight. We've been in the last term since you've surrounded us with an EET, a building bill, a law on Czech TV, I've got a whole table here with exact days, so we've never acted overnight precisely because we felt sorry for those employees. So sweep behind your own threshold. Outside my own door, behind my own door! Mr. Secretary, please leave the cadre, the assessment of who slept or didn't sleep. I saw empty benches here. Yesterday, my honored colleague Radek Vondráček said that Miloš Zeman used to say, he spoke here to empty benches, when he was still President of the Chamber of Deputies, so on the right, you had trouble running into the vote on our procedural proposals. So please stop the cadre! Now, about that chart of yours. If I don't make it, I'll sign up again. I'm just gonna ask, did the graph go through some official board meeting, was it processed by expert departments, or is it similar to the table that the finance minister hung on the site on Monday, which was totally contrary to the official macroeconomic prediction of the Ministry of Finance? And I've already asked for a justification that I hope to get from the minister. And so if this graph is official and it's based on some reliable data, then please, you said, that's what happens in 2050 if nothing happens until then. But we gave you a proposition. We told you to download the pasquil here and let's discuss a change in valorization and further steps on January 1, 2024 and of course the following. So that didn't happen, so don't be surprised!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u103	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mrs Balaštíková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u104	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I would like to respond to the words of Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Jurečka, and I would like to ask him if he spoke so flamingly here and again took up Mr. Andrej Babiš's mouth, where he was during his speech? If he was present in the hall, if he was listening to that speech, then he knew so carefully what he was saying in that speech. He knew very well that I met him downstairs at lunch, so he hasn't been here practically the whole time, and now he's criticizing something at this point. At the same time, allow me to respond to Mrs Olga Richterová, who has always defended the socially weak, probably also defends, and today she does not mind that a law has been passed here, which is very unfair, touches 2.7 million seniors, the most vulnerable group. And we keep telling you, and you still don't want to hear it: it's very unfair to do this retroactively, to do this not in accordance with the Constitution, it's unconstitutional. Which one of you would like someone to say something to you, approve something, and then change it halfway through? So we're still saying yes to you, let's go through the standard legislative route, let's talk about it from January 1, 2024, but it's not possible to do this. And you still can't hear us. So we're trying very hard. You have to understand that we are here defending the interests of these people, unfortunately you are going the opposite way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u105	Thank you for keeping time. Next up, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Mr Karel Havlíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u106	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, would like to speak through you, Mr President, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka here. She's already partially taken away part of my note from my colleague Alena Schillerová, but I want to tell you one thing. Please, you're showing some chart here, we're not gonna see her. You don't know how to predict inflation. When you're told by your board of counseling, everyone's working towards it, you can't do that, but predict what Andrej Babiš will do in two years, that's what you're good at. Then, Minister, you've really amused me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u107	Thank you. Mr Karel Havlíček will now appear, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u108	Thank you. I would like to go back to what I said here one more time, and it follows up on what Minister Jurečka also responded to. We talked about it briefly afterwards. I'd like to ask you, Minister, if you could give us the exact number. I said here that seniors who live alone had a situation that increased their income poverty by living or living alone in 2022 43 percent in income poverty. You have an argument that I understand, and that is that these people, if they have the pension that they have, and of course the expenses that are connected with it, with their life, can achieve for the housing allowance. But we know that the housing allowance is about 5% of households. If the old man lives alone, he's also a household. And I'd like to hear the answer here, how many of these old people are going to reach 43 percent, if you have it quantified in tens of thousands, for the housing allowance, because in my opinion, it's the poodle core. Here's the problem. This is the most vulnerable group, and I say, and if you just tell me that these people aren't going to reach the housing allowance for the most part, or maybe they could reach it, but they won't ask for it for any reason, for example because it's difficult for them, for example because they need it below their level. It's hard to say. But I consider this to be a very fundamental thing, because if we don't figure this out, in my opinion, we're still going to spin like the wind in a box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u109	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr Martin Kukla will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u110	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Vice-President Olga Richterová is not here, by your means, Mr President. She evaluated Mr. Babiš's speech, but I don't think she listened to him. She evaluated him as the pirát evaluate all his speeches that he's full of half-truths and lies. If she had listened, it was our speeches that the President had read. Those weren't Mr. Babiš's speeches. Those were our speeches. So you said that all the Members who were preparing speeches at home and whose speeches the Chairman of the YES movement read here use half-truths and lies! No, I don't think she just didn't know what she was talking about, and she just used the standard rhetoric of the pirát for all the speeches of the ANO movement leader!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr Martin Kukla here now, Mr Hubert Lang will prepare. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will also, with the permission of the President, allow myself to respond to Mrs Richterová. I'd just tell her the facts here. I don't think she completely understood. We're defending 2.8 million people here that you want to take on average from the summer of CZK 1,000 a month, which means some 7,000 a year, next year it's going to be doing some 15 to 2,000 on average, so that's why we're performing here. Even to almost most of my colleagues and colleagues, you did not allow us to perform, which is why we had to choose this form in order for the President to read it here for us. And if we're breaking something here? We're not breaking anything here. I mean, remember, I was just here, or a few hours ago I suggested, we're all tired, this House is going without any longer break over 70 hours, let's all get some rest, let's take a 12-hour break. And what did you do? Well, you cut it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u113	Thank you. Another entry is Mr Hubert Lang. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues. You can see we're doing really well. We're on day four, there's no problem. I would also like to respond to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Olga Richterová, to her speech, through the Vice-President. She got hot in here, climbed up on this chair, and she just had a vein run out of her, like we're building up here, like it's awful, like we have to think about the employees. Yes, we think about them, too. How our President is constantly recycling some speeches according to his advisors. You did not let us in the general debate so that we could speak at all, and the President actually took on the heavy burden at his age and reads our speeches, which we would normally say ourselves here, and it is not the same. Every speech is authentic, every speech has just been prepared separately by these people and they say their arguments that they feel that way because that's how we see it. We think it's something that, from our point of view, it's some kind of rape of democracy, that this is a white-day theft. I'm gonna keep saying it here, even if somebody doesn't like it. From my point of view, you're really doing something about that group of people who can least defend themselves by simply denying them some kind of legal claim. Well, I'm also from a region that's on the edge, just Plzeň-north, there's no big income level. These people live in those villages, and when they're supposed to get to work, they put a lot of... Or the pensioners aren't even there. There's no mail, there's no business nowadays. These people have a huge problem, especially when they're older seniors, and they just need to be alone in that cottage. It's not easy. If there's a bubble in Prague where there's a tram coming every three minutes, there's a bus in the country in the morning, one bus in the evening, and that's it. And those people, just for them, the 1,000 crowns you steal from, the 7,000 this year and 12,000 next year, so it's a lot of money for those people. It's for a month's trash can, it's heating up, and so on. That's why we fight like this, that's why we always recycle. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u115	Next up, Mr Patrik Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to my colleague Olga Richterová about the obstructions and these issues. In the meantime, I found some data overnight to remind you that it wasn't just EET, but that there are some other standards, and how long it took to discuss them in the Chamber of Deputies. So the government's bill of construction - 8 months. And now you've got a shot at how many times it's been interrupted. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy - 10 months. Government proposal to register sales - 12 months. And now you can always see how many times it's been interrupted. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because, in fact, the coalition at the time respected the possibility of obstruction in this content, because the meeting day ended at seven or nine, which is why it kept coming back. If you look into the system, it ended here, I don't know, it's here on February 19th and it started on March 3rd. And it's like it's coming out like that. The difference with what's now is that we're just driving a major. That's what we're talking about here. Let's go, big guy. That means it's awkward for the employees, for everyone. And that's the new thing. That's the new thing. It means that you, when you were in opposition, you were the possibility of content obstructions, and it wasn't just EET, I just found out that there were more things and laws, so you had it. But you yourselves, in fact, do not respect what you used, so you do not respect when we say in advance and therefore do not respect the opposition. So much for explaining why we're here overnight. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u117	The next is Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So me, how else but to respond to Vice-President Olga Richterová? She hasn't told us anything all night, and now she's here to tell us how tired all the employees are. We know that, because we sat here, unlike the Vice-President, who could barely make it. We cut one of those night shifts for the rescue service. At least you can see how hard it is for employees in shifts. Fire department, paramedics who have to sit in the car in two minutes and leave with a click on the exit. And I also set myself against the fact that Vice-President Richterová here is calling the President, Mr Babiš, for building this place. This didn't have to happen if you let us perform normally. I don't think this might happen if you didn't do it in a legislative emergency, it went through a normal process. So I'd like to forgive myself for the innuendo innuendo from the Vice-President here. And I think you have five deputies, so if I take five times two, it's a ten-hour break every day that you could use to get some rest, you and I. We offered it to you, you turned it down, so we cut the ambulance service once, and maybe we'll cut another one today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u119	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mrs Hanzlíková will be ready. We're still in the factual notes regime. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u120	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. When I hear Mrs Richterová here, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I still feel that we are the ones who do something wrong in quotation marks, and you are the administrative ones who have come here with an extraordinary meeting, in a state of legislative emergency, you did not let us practically speak, a number of people have not been able to speak at all, you have put a vote in conflict with the Rules of Procedure for an hour, so this is certainly not the case, but when I see a number of Members here from the right side saying, we are still trying to arrange for it to be different, so at this moment I will rightly allow myself to make two procedural proposals. The first procedural proposal is that the point is interrupted by 21 March this year. That means that... [[Objection.]] Yes, it's been done. Until March 20th. March 21st was probably a procedural proposal, so I'm correcting myself. And the second procedural proposal I'm going to take is that we're going to believe that, as a coalition, you might even think about what you're coming up with here, that it's unconstitutional, that there's no retroactivity, so the second procedural proposal is that I'm interrupting a point until Tuesday, March 7th, until 2:00 p.m. I'm going to believe that the coalition will be thinking all weekend by Tuesday and that maybe Tuesday will come and say, let's discuss this in a standard legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u121	And please, the first point was by 20. 3:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u122	20. 3rd to 14 o'clock and the second is until Tuesday 7 March also until 14 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u123	Yes. I have two counterproposals registered so far. Mr. Lochman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u124	Good afternoon, Mr President, fellow Members. I'm glad we're still together. I therefore have a counter-proposal for the amendment on pension insurance, the Houses of the Press 392, so that, although Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, through the President, proposes a solution, I propose a shorter option, and that is an interruption until 15.15 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u125	15.15. Yes, and we have one more counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u126	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to have one counterproposal, and the counterproposal goes to 3. 3. 2023, that means we interrupt this point, or the counterproposal is that we interrupt this point to 3. 3. 23 to 15 hours and 18 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u127	Thank you. I have a motion to unsubscribe, so I hereby sign you off. Please sign up. With the replacement card number 35, Mrs Richterová will be voting. I'll sing again, even though I've been gonging before. And I'm opening the vote. First, we will vote on Mr Letocha's counterproposal, and that is, 3. 3:18 p.m. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 69 entered 139, for was 7, against was 85. Denied. We will now vote on Mr Lochman's counterproposal, which was until 15.15 today. And I'm opening the vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote 70 registered 144, for 5, against 105. Result: rejected. And now we have two proposals from Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová - Tuesday 7. 3. 14 hours was her second suggestion. And I'm opening the vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? In vote 71 registered 144, for 55, against 87. Result: rejected. And the last, but actually the first of the proposals, which was to interrupt the point by 20. 3:00 p.m., 2:00 p.m. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote 72 registered 144, for 54, against 89. This proposal was also rejected. We're gonna go back to the debate here, and we're at... Yes, I'm sorry, there's an interest in getting off. Please calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that I voted against in the '71 vote, but it came out for me, so please, really on the log. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u129	You do not question the vote. So we can continue the debate. It is written here with a factual remark - I only ask if this is true - Mrs Hanzlíková. Yes? Now, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u130	Thank you for the floor. I still have to respond to the words of Minister Jurečka because I find it really hard to hear, and I believe that he did not mean that we would reduce someone's pension and recommend that he go to the employment office for a housing benefit which is still paid from the same amount, that is, from the budget of the MPSV. I've already said this here once as a response to the Prime Minister's statement, which urged families, people working so as not to be afraid to ask for social benefits, and I said here that this is the only government I've ever seen that voluntarily enlarges a group of people who are dependent on social benefits. And today I have to say, that's really putting the logic of social policy on its head! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u131	Thank you. This has exhausted the factual points and we can go back to the debate. Mrs Margita Balaštíková is duly applied for. And I'm gonna read some quick apologies, except they're not jumping in. You have your word. And I'd like the tech manager to see if they can come in. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u132	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. The annualisation of pensions was a sort of pension policy for pensioners, and your government's members kept them in mind for the whole year 2022 in the belief that they would be paid and they would have an increase in their pension so that at least a little better able to cover the expensive energy costs, increased prices...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u133	I'd like some peace in the Chamber, or you can take care of what you need in front of the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u134	... high prices of food and medicine. This, of course, also aroused legitimate expectations. However, with its restrictive approach, the government has cut this off, and I have therefore taken amendments that I want to mitigate this step by the government, and I therefore report to Amendment 2134, 2135, 2136 and 2137.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u135	I'm gonna interrupt you one more time, and I'm gonna ask everyone in the O.R. to keep their voice down, or take care of everything in front of the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u136	At the same time, I am applying to Amendment 2334 and Amendment 2335, and I would now like to introduce you to the reasons for these two amendments. Because, of course, the government is constantly looking for cuts, looking for where to save money, because the Minister of Finance wanted to have a budget better than it's doing, and I do not see any steps by the government to take steps in some way, where the savings really won't hurt so much, and so that it can actually pay off the things that I think are important from the point of view of our citizens. That is why I wanted to help the government with my colleague Jarmila Pokorna Jermanová and we tabled two amendments to the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies. For this step, I have asked you in recent weeks to cut the pensioner's money, but you leave the payout increased to the churches for inflation unchanged. I thought that you might enter into negotiations because I believe that churches are here from some kind of spiritual direction and dimension, and that you could reasonably agree with them that there is currently no good time for this, that they could not take such big inflation for some time. Since you have not done so, we have tabled an amendment and, of course, we have taken advantage of the state of legislative emergency that allows us to do so, and we have adjusted the part of the law that is unprecedentedly increasing the payout to the churches, and we have changed it. [[15.20 hours]] We put a fixed rate of 2.26 in the inflation clause and 3.03% in the second amendment to the amount to be paid to the churches and calculated. In fact, due to high price increases, it is necessary to allocate from the state budget funds to this inflation clause enshrined in the property settlement law with churches and religious societies in the coming years. At present, the amount of the outstanding amount of the financial compensation is increased annually by the rate of annual inflation published by the Czech Statistical Office for the calendar year by two years preceding the calendar year of payment, namely annual instalments. Taking into account current inflation, it is clear that the new amount outstanding increased by inflation from 2022 and 2023 would require the allocation of State budget resources to an extent that was not only assumed, but we also think that it is unsustainable. It is therefore proposed to partially limit the effects of the inflation clause, with the amount outstanding increasing annually by a fixed percentage corresponding to average inflation over the ten years preceding the years of the entry into force of this Act on property settlement with churches and religious companies, i.e. from 2002 to 2011, which is where we calculated the amount of 2.26 %. This will significantly reduce expenditure from the state budget for maintaining the appreciation of the rest of the outstanding amount that is rightfully due to churches and religious societies. I'm not gonna hold off reading what's going on here. I think the finance minister should calculate how much he saves when he really says he has to look for every crown. After payment of the first annual instalment, the amount of the outstanding amount of the financial compensation shall be increased annually and the new amount of the outstanding amount of the financial compensation shall be notified by the Ministry of Culture of the Church and the religious society concerned. I believe that you understand that by supporting this amendment, the churches will not be so bad, because if we really want them to still have that mental dimension, then we should not go after the money. And it seems to me here that it would be unfair, especially if we were to cut the pensioners off, and we would leave this amount by the level of inflation that we know is really unprecedented, and we really should straighten this environment and say that we will behave economically and transparently and correct this injustice, which is now in these two laws, the law on pension insurance and the law on property settlement with churches and religious societies, is emerging. I am extremely curious whether you will support this amendment, because if you do not, I must say that it will be a demonstration of hypocrisy in the most rude way indeed. And I am extremely curious about the fairness of the Minister, because he had the opportunity to enter into negotiations with them, to speak with them, and I think that they themselves should come up with this proposal as to how they will help now. And that vote basically just shows who has the face, what he's hiding behind. And I hope you all understand that it's nothing against the churches. I myself am a believer, but I think that at this time, when we really have to cut our most necessary, we do not have funds for young families, those churches could really for some time renounce the level of inflation that has risen to these dimensions at this time, because last year's inflation of 15,1 would actually increase those amounts by a very high proportion, there are very high amounts. I don't want to sort out individual church societies, but I believe that they themselves could accept that it was sort of an elimination of injustice between one and the other by law that something happened here that no one could have anticipated. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these two amendments will be supported by one of them. It's just about the amount that we're going to set as an inflation amount in the inflation clause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u137	Thank you, and with priority rights, the President of the Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Vice Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would like to ask for two procedural votes. I will explain what this is about, because I suppose we should vote here in consensus and with the opposition. After the end of this extraordinary meeting, which is under the regime of Section 99, which means that we can also vote after the nineteenth, twenty-first, after midnight, on Saturday, Sunday, Monday, we do not have to vote on it anywhere and decide, so you know that we have two extraordinary meetings called, 56th and 57th, which are not, of course, meetings that would be held under the regime of Section 59, and are also convened for ten minutes after the end of this meeting, in which we are now, or now I am sorry, I do not know if thirty minutes, just shortly after the end of this meeting. Ten minutes. In order for these meetings to actually be opened and held, we should now be in accordance with Section 53 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 to vote that the negotiating days for these two convened extraordinary meetings are Saturday, Sunday and Monday. That's the precautionary principle. And if the opening were to happen today, the meeting day on Friday ends at 2:00 p.m., that's over. So, please, in this second procedural vote, and we can do so in advance, it is consulted with legislation that, in those two extraordinary meetings of 56th and 57th, we can also vote after nineteenth, twenty-first, or twenty-fourth hour. Again, these two votes I have asked for relate not to this meeting, but to the two extraordinary ones. If we do not support this, and the House is a sovereign, we do not need to vote in favour, but I warn you that these two meetings cannot take place, even though the House President has called them in this way. Thank you for voting this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u139	Thank you. So we have a proposal for two procedural votes. We'll vote first now. I have already gonged, I will sing again, and this will be about the first, so that the meeting will also be Saturday, Sunday and Monday on the 56th and 57th days. Does the Member want to make a counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u140	No, I object that the proposals are unvoted. I remember, I had it consulted with the legislation exactly the opposite. It's just the rules change. I do not believe that this can be voted on until that particular meeting. In short, these meetings have been called badly, without any thought, and are basically now de facto convened for a period outside the proper time of the hearing. But that should have been realized by the one who called those meetings at the time he called them. You pushed them out of court day. You should've just been ordered Friday morning. You wouldn't approve the program, we'd be done with it. I think what you're proposing is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. I suggest you take it back to the club presidents. Maybe we can make a deal, if you two are still having a little fun here, so we can agree that these meetings will be another time. But you just can't vote on a flat-rate basis that all the meetings... So vote that all the meetings until the end of the parliamentary term can be at any time, ad absurdum, if I catch up with your argument, and just the days of the negotiations, when we vote, we'll have negotiating days forever, forever... I don't think so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u141	Mr. Chairman Výborný. Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u142	Colleagues, colleagues, aside from the fact that we could have had these meetings open and discussed long ago, but that is the matter of this House's negotiations, I have here the 33rd meeting, which took place on August 26, 2022, and we have proceeded by analogy to what I have proposed. There was a colleague, Marek Benda - and I could quote here - who had voted precisely for the 33rd and 34th meetings then. It was August 26, 2022. So that's the precedent right there. We have, of course, consulted this matter with legislation, it was only a helpful step, so that sometimes, when we get to the end of this meeting, we did not stand here with the fact that this meeting cannot begin because we are out of the meeting day. But I understand probably not the objection, but the reminder of President Vondráček and I will ask the Vice-President and the President of the House to see if we can now meet the club presidents and the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies to clarify how we will proceed. Thank you. I'm gonna ask for a break until 3:40, and I think we can make it quick.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u143	So the break is until 15.40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue. I am following up on the two procedural proposals tabled by the President Výborný. I'm just gonna repeat them. This is the 56th and 57th meetings, with certain procedural steps to be taken. First, when the negotiating days for these two meetings - 56., 57. - will be on Saturdays, Sundays and possibly Mondays. And the second one, when the 56th, 57th meetings would be possible to negotiate today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. So if we're all agreed on what we're going to vote on... There's a checkout request. In the meantime, I'm gonna get started. I beg you all to sign up. At this point, we will be voting on the first procedural proposal, and that is that the negotiating days for the 56th, 57th meetings will also be on Saturday, Sunday and possibly Monday. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, registered 151, in favour of 138, versus 1. Accepted. And now the second procedural proposal, the 56th and 57th meetings. It is possible to start discussing it today, after 19th, 21st and 24th hours. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered 153, for was 144, against was no one. Result: accepted. Mr. Chairman Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to convey the agreement of representatives of all five Members' clubs, which is in the context of both the vote and the vote, has now taken place. We, at the moment, when we conclude a detailed debate on the Houses of the Press 392, will be interrupted for 120 minutes, in order to prepare the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies a proper vote for the third reading. On the basis of the agreement of all the Members' clubs that we have now made, and since the two extraordinary meetings have been convened after the end or interruption of this meeting, we will start ten minutes after the suspension of the 56th meeting, on the basis of the agreement of all the Members' Club Presidents, we will open this meeting and then interrupt indefinitely. And also after the technical break to prepare all technical facilities, i.e. seven minutes, we will open a meeting of 57th and we will also interrupt it indefinitely. Then you'll have time to exhale, have some coffee, and after that 120 minutes we'll meet here for the third reading of the House press 392. Thank you. I hope that's clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u146	Thank you. In fact, I have Mr Vondráček here. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u147	Thank you for the floor. I respect the agreements of the MPs. I personally got held up because I couldn't help it. I just want to tell you something that shouldn't fit in. Each invitation to the meeting shall be drawn up and prepared in such a way as to enable the meeting to take place on a proper day of procedure, in due course. Those meetings were called wrong. It was wrong from the start, and that's the problem. Just because my colleague quoted me with a stew doesn't mean anything, because it was wrong back then. The President called it in purely for the coalition, bent the law, and basically called it on Saturday. I am... no, I know exactly that my predecessor, Jan Hamáček, and I would never do anything like that. We have always tried to be the presidents of the entire Chamber of Deputies. And I could be pushed by Andrej Babiš as Prime Minister and chairman of the party as he wanted, and I wouldn't do that for him. And the Prime Minister had a big speech here when she was elected to be president of all of us, and this time she clearly sided with the government and did not defend the House, like all of us. We are over the government, and we should follow certain rules. That's all on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u148	Thank you. With a factual point, President Pekarová Adamová is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u149	Thank you for the floor. I know the atmosphere is already very tense, but let us look at the possibilities of the President of the Chamber of Deputies when he has to comply with the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The first deadline is that the meeting must be convened within ten days. The second deadline is that the meeting must be announced to all of you, i.e. you must receive an invitation at least five days in advance. That means the time space where the meeting could be called wasn't really big. I guess you'll all recognize that, because we all know how to do that. And at the moment when there's a scheduled meeting, an extraordinary meeting that's now underway, which everyone's making up ahead of us that it's going to be surrounded, so I really don't want to assume that it's going to end on Thursday, that it's going to end on Friday, that it's going to end on Friday, that it's going to end today, and that we're going to have 1556 hours on Friday afternoon, and we're not going to be able to say where this meeting is going to end. So it wasn't anything that hadn't been used as an instrument before. Calling a meeting conditionally with the fact that one that is to be held before will be terminated or interrupted, this has really happened repeatedly in the past, it is nothing unusual, as Mr Vondráček here tries to give an impression. And, you know, colleagues and colleagues, I respect your right to convene meetings, but right now I will be signing an invitation to the sixth emergency meeting called by the ANO movement in such a short time. Next week, as everyone knows well for several weeks, we will have a joint meeting of the two chambers of Parliament for inauguration. When Vice-President Olga Richterová here spoke of our employees, let us remember that they are also preparing this very special event, which only happens once every five years. And I think we all understand that the House can't suddenly increase the volume of its employees so that all of this, all of this, that they can handle right now. It can't be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u150	With a factual point, Mr Vondráček is registered and then with the priority right of President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u151	I'm really just gonna try not to get emotional about it. Please, but I'm not making an impression, it's just the Rules of Procedure. I remember calling seven special meetings here for signatures in two days. Seven. I had to put it together somehow. It didn't prevent the President from calling for nine hours today, it would have started, the programme would not have been approved, and the meeting would have continued. This is really common because a different meeting has to be opened. But the invitation must allow this to happen in due course of time. And I've also called a meeting that will happen after the meeting, but no later than 12 p.m. on Friday, to make it happen. There's an invitation like that from me, too. So please, I'm not making an impression, it just needs to be when you call a meeting, assume and allow the invitation to start the meeting on a proper day and on a proper time of meeting. But it didn't just happen so it wouldn't fall into this meeting. I think we all understand why the reasons are, let's not go back to that. I'm just telling you, it's been avoided again for the benefit of the coalition. So at least these basic things should be done here neutrally for both the opposition and the coalition. Let's start treating each other a little bit, because it changes every four years, once there's one in the coalition, the other in the coalition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u152	With priority right now, President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u153	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I totally share the legal opinion of my honored colleague Radek Vondráček, which I also went to meetings with. However, I had to find a pragmatic solution again and decide for a pragmatic solution, because in order for the meeting to start today, perhaps, I don't know, I don't know when, I don't even dare predict when this meeting will end, and you may not be here anymore, so there wouldn't be a quorum and so on and so on, it has already happened here, in this parliamentary term. So I've decided between whether these meetings will take place in the 120-minute break that legislation needs, or whether we're going to do this pragmatic solution, we're going to start, we're going to interrupt. I decided to do this after a brief consultation with my colleagues, it seems reasonable to me now. We all live pensions. And I'll justify the meetings. The topics are clear. Today we were supposed to talk about the issue of drugs, the problem now was just covered by this shameful law that you submitted to the House. However, it still resonates with the people, and we will not abandon the subject because your minister has not solved it, and I am asking the Prime Minister to personally address it. And the second topic that was supposed to be on the agenda today is the freezing of the salaries of constitutional officials. This is also understandable in the context of what is about to happen to our pensioners. But I understand that at this point - but it could, the law is here, the proposal is a Member of Andrej Babiš, when you're already shouting at me. So, at this moment, I will do my part in collecting signatures for the new emergency meeting - the parliamentary proposal by Andrej Babiš on the issue of wage freezes - constitutional officials, and I will deliver it immediately to the office of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, because I know that it will be interrupted indefinitely today, and I will do it with the drugs next week as well. The topics of our meetings are topics that bother the people of this country, not a slowdown in the valorisation of pensions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u154	Thank you. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u155	So let me also say a few words about this. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think and it would not be good for all of us to open these two meetings in 120 minutes of legislation, because I consider these topics, whether they are the salaries of constitutional officials or medicines, to be very serious. I think that such important topics should have their space and time. She should have her press releases, she should have her preparations, and we should devote a proper day to this. For this reason, even for me, the best solution is if we just open it in the 120 minutes, interrupt it, and immediately call the two meetings again on a proper day so that we can all focus on these topics. And I believe that citizens are waiting for that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u156	Thank you. There are no other factual or preferential ones, so we can go back to the debate. And Mrs Berenika Peštová is duly registered. Madam, I will ask you to be patient, and I would ask everyone to keep their voice down. I see some of them are leaving, so let's hold on a few more seconds so you can relax for your speech. [[Mrs Peštová: Would I, Mr President, put forward a procedural proposal? They'd come again. It's a joke.]] You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u157	That was a joke. I thought everyone would come back to me. [[With laughter.]] No, I won't, don't worry. I'm saying I wanted to make a procedural proposal for you all to come back to me, so I won't, don't worry, go. Go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u158	Wait, I'm gonna go on and... you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's a more advanced afternoon class, and I can see that even colleagues don't take jokes anymore, because they really can't. In any case, I have also tabled amendments. In the absence of a proper debate, I will try to summarize briefly what is going on here. Our antisocial government, which is applauding us for getting our people on welfare, and it's proud that these people are walking more and more for social benefits, which I personally don't like, because I think we're a state that goes to work so that he doesn't have to go to the benefits... [[Minister Austrian in the government bench discusses with his colleague.]] I'm sorry... [[The Minister apologizes. You may proceed.]] Then I'll keep going. I'm saying I just don't like this way. In any case, we are dealing with the valorisation of pensions which, in my view, should have run by a regular legislative process. I've said it here several times, I've expected that there will be a promise from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, always running away from me, promised it to me in front of the counter, as we will have a nice chat about it, unfortunately we haven't met, so I still don't have the answers. In any case, I will recapitulate: annual inflation was 18 percent in September last year, which was higher than in January of this year - 17,5. And in my opinion, even according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, there should have been precautionary measures in the sense that they should have put in a proper legislative process an amendment to the law, which would have solved the change in the valorisation calculator, which would have caused the economic damage that I had not received to this day, what is the economic damage when I have the law that tells me when this valorisation calculator is to run, under what conditions, and when the conditions occur, the valorisation calculator will run, and behold, the 19 billion extra is called economic damage. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I'm saying, I've been waiting for the debate that was supposed to happen here and it didn't happen. But I will return to the proper legislative process, which I think has not been initiated, and that is also remembered. If it had not been settled, or the proper legislative process by the end of the year, they could have gone into the budgetary provisional and could have completed this law at the beginning of this year... It's so loud in here... In any case... Mr. Chairman, thank you, I'll raise my voice, don't worry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u160	But I don't think there's that much noise... But still, I'd like everyone to keep their voice down, so you can relax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u161	In any case, for me, I think that the fact that it was brought to an emergency legislative state was not a good thing. The fact that we see some retroactivity and other things, legitimate expectations and more and more, I will not repeat myself here. I think it'll be a question for the Constitutional Court, and we'll see how it goes. In any case, I would like to sign up for Amendments 2281, 2282, 2283, 2139, 2141, 2142 and 2143. The reason is in the system. By not being, as I have already said, a proper debate, I will not be here to bother and tire out to justify why I have taken this step. You've agreed to take my rights... So thank you and I look forward to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u162	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Věra Adámková, then Mr David Pražák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u163	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a few words, I don't want to delay you, I'll be brief because I think we've said a lot here. We're probably all in different blocks of kneeling, and I just assume that we all want the good for the inhabitants of this country, even though we don't have a common ground in it yet. So, please, nicely, I'm impressed by the law, which we sometimes see in early colleagues in research, and that's from the outcome to the assignment. And here was the assignment to save some number, some amount, so that's how the laws were created, which is unacceptable in science, I'd like it here too. But of course you chose this path. And I just have to say, of course, I don't agree with her. And I am signing up for my amendments, whose justification is also recorded in the system. And it's 2169, 2170, 2172 and 2173. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u164	Thank you. Another with registration is Mr. Pražák. Then Mrs Ivana Mádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u165	Good afternoon. Mr President, colleagues, I would also like to apply to four amendments which I would like to mitigate the effects of this government's decisions, that is to say to reach out and shorten legal valorisation, because I am afraid that this could increase the risk of income poverty, which is really about 40 percent for citizens over 65 years of age, for pensioners over 65 years of age. The same is true of energy poverty, which is about 25 or 28 percent of pensioners over 65 years of age. I think it's very serious. The reasons were heard here. It's hard to believe that you don't know what inflation is going to be like. Surely you have not put forward firm positions to convince us that this must be dealt with in a state of legislative emergency and so on. So I would now apply to the individual amendments. They are recorded in the system, including justification. This is an amendment with the number 2103, where the amount of 400 crowns is changed to 1,457. Then it is document 2104, where the sum of 400 crowns is replaced by CZK 1 528, followed by document 2105, where the amount is CZK 1 599 and the last amount is CZK 2106, where the amount is CZK 1 670. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u166	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr Brož. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak here, to justify my four amendments. You see, I have a rather extensive analysis prepared to justify this. However, given that there has not been a normal debate, I will make this brief and, of course, my amendments are also documented in the system with justification. And I would apply here to my amendments, which are under number 2220, 2221, 2222 and 2223. Thank you for your attention and I believe that you will support one of my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u168	Thank you. And with priority rights, the President of the Fiala has applied. In the meantime, I will read an apology to Minister Balaš at 19 o'clock for business reasons and to Minister Langšádlová at 16.15 for work reasons. And I also note that Mr Major is voting with card number 37. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u169	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, declare my amendments in this debate. Let me just say for the screen recording of their number, there are five of them, and they are amendments under the numbers 1977, 1979, 1980, 1981 and 1982. I believe that I have already justified these amendments in the general debate that has taken place and that I do not need to justify them now at this second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u170	Thank you. And please logged in Lenka Dražilová. Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u171	Thank you, good afternoon. Colleagues, colleagues and I had a lot on my mind, but time is ticking. So the only thing I'm going to say is that the valorisation mechanism was prepared to avoid a decline in the standard of living of pensioners when inflation occurred. This promise is long-term, and it's always, always kept, now it's supposed to be broken. Allow me to apply to my eight amendments that I have tabled. In all of them, I propose an increase in the fixed amount of valorisation for which pensions are to be validated. They are recorded in the system, including reasons, and are amendments number 2275, 2276, 2277, 2278, 2326, 2327, 2329 and 2330. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u172	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Věra Adámková. No, I guess it jumped again. Then Mr Patrik Nacher. The speaker is absent, so we're putting him in order. Mr Radovan Vích.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u173	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act in a state of legislative emergency, whereby ex post, with retroactive effect, changes the conditions of June's extraordinary valorisation of all types of pensions, is, in addition to the apparent conflict with constitutional principles grossly and socially. Financially, it damages all pension recipients with monthly pennies above CZK 8,000, with an average pensioner of CZK 1 010 a month. This is particularly unbearable and socio-economically liquidation measures at the time of astronomical accentuation of all the pensioners' key cost of living. Pursuant to the applicable and designated law, an extraordinary June valuation was to take place in the form of an increase in the merit component of pensions by 11.5 %. Practically all last year, we reminded the government that if energy prices increase and the government doesn't deal enough, the prices of goods, especially food, but also services, will increase. And that's exactly what happened. Plus, it wasn't a quick jump, it was a steady increase. It is therefore outrageous that the petitioner states in the explanatory memorandum that the proposed amendment responds to unexpectedly rapid price developments in the second half of 2022 and in particular in January 2023. I'm asking - how unexpected? The government knew, the experts sounded the alarm, and the SPD pointed it out many times. So it's not an unexpected thing, it's to be expected, and the government overslept. So now the government is putting out its incompetence at the expense of seniors receiving pensions and trying to take away a large part of the increase by the extraordinary valuations to which they are entitled. And as usual, it does so at the last minute, and it has not yet allowed us to comment on the general debate. It is an entirely antisocial proposal, and I am not going to support it in any way. That is why I have prepared a series of amendments introduced into the House system. These proposals offer solutions to avoid this reduction in valorisation and differ in the amounts of the fixed part by which the percentage of pensions is increased. The Chamber of Deputies can therefore choose which proposal she likes more, whether the increase in the fixed amount by 1,225, 1,450, 1,470, 5 500 or 1,525 CZK. [[1,500?]] These amendments do not interfere with the government proposal, they only regulate it in this parameter so that our seniors are not damaged or damaged as little as possible. Of course, it would still be better not to change anything about the current regulation and simply throw the bill off the table. But if it changes, I ask you to take advantage of the positive one of this bill, the preservation of the element of merit, and at the same time help low-income pensioners. In general, however, I consider the whole process of government to be very alarming and unfair in this case, and I hope that this situation will not be repeated. This is what I am referring to these amendments, namely 2049, 2050, 2051, 2052 and 2053. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u174	Thank you and please Mr Robert Králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u175	Mr President, given that there has not been a general debate, I would try to justify in a detailed debate my amendments, which I have put into the system under the numbers of House document 2307, 2308, 2309, 2310. The amendments aim to increase the amount by which pension percentages increase during the exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount is increased by the pension, which is paid in full, as proposed by the Government's bill. Knowing the strength of the coalition and realizing that the Senate is also five-police, and as we have learned in the last three days, the Constitutional Court is agreed, so I, on the basis of the press conference of the newly elected president, said that he would listen to those voters who did not vote for him - and I did not vote for President Petr Pavel - so I would like him to be my president to listen to me, and therefore I call on him not to veto this law, because he would return to the House and the government coalition would comfortably approve it, but not to sign it and allow it to pass its 14-day term, and so I call on him to become president of all citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u176	Thank you and I will ask another of the performers, and this is Mr. Roman Kubíček. Ambassador, I see you're not here, so you're finally absent. And Mr Jiří Mašek - he is not. Member Stanislav Berkovec. I see him, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u177	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice - what do we have here? - Good afternoon. It's kind of messed up. I will also make this very short, I will sign up for my four amendments. These are House documents number 2107, 2108, 2109 and 2110. It is actually also an increase in the amount as well as in the case of my colleagues in this Article I § 67 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (b). Some numerical series, that's detailed in the relevant documents. I would just like to remind you that the reason that led me to do this is that the legal order of the Czech Republic, of course, makes it conditional, the valorization, we have talked about this many times today. And I am led by an institute that is an inherent part of the Czech historical and modern legal order, and that is the institute of good morals, i.e. moros mores or omni mores in the historical context of Roman law, because I think that this is our legal order and legislation on this section is built here. That's all, thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u178	děkovat you, Mr. Ambassador, and another enrollment is Mrs. Marie Pošarová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a detailed debate on the second reading of the Government's proposal in the House of Press 392. I have a reasoned report recorded in the system, and I have tabled five amendments. With regard to the extraordinary valorisation of pensions due in June of this year, we have heard here many reasons for us opposition Members. We argued, of course, that they did not agree to a brief discussion of this press in a legislative emergency. At the same time, I would like to sign up for my amendments under 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u180	děkovat you, Madame, and another enrollment is Mr Milan Brázdil. Let's hide for the end. Mr. Jan Síla. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u181	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would also like to sign up for my amendments, namely 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996. I believe that my previous speakers have explained why I am actually proposing these amendments, but I would like to mention one last thing, only to remind Minister Jurečka specifically. I learned today that there was such a matter at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that software applications were made to work offices that allowed Ukrainian refugees or not refugees, because they were also people who were in Ukraine and were simply sucking money out of our taxes remotely online. I'd like to know what Minister Jurečka has to say and if he could comment on that. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u182	Thank you. I would also like to ask Mr Jan Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u183	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, co-workers, I'm gonna make this very short, too, but I can't afford to read two such messages from our constituents here, or from people who are concerned with what we're discussing here for five days. - Neighbor, hold on. We think about you every day. We're watching Internet TV. Say hi to Mr. Babiš, Nacher, Schillerová, Havlíček, Vondráček and others. We wish you well, too. I don't know if you guys are gonna win this thing, but hang in there, we're really rooting for you. Neighbors from Kotlářka. It's a little touchy. Then the second message that concludes with this is absolutely explicit: We always thought politics was a service for people, but now we realize that it is the other way around that people are supposed to do a service for politicians. So think about it, everyone, as you see fit. I will now apply to my four amendments and it is Amendment 2085, 2084, 2083 and 2081. The reasons and contents are annexed and stored in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u184	Thank you and I will ask Mr Petr Sadovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u185	Thank you, Mr President. I would just add that we all saw how limited we were to our rights, we all see the government saying something else, doing something else. Basically, he's acting like door-to-door salesmen promising miracle pots, blankets and massage mattresses and counting on no one to notice and everything will be fine. I would just like to add this to the amendment, which is under number 2239, 2240, 2241 and 2243. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u186	Thank you and I will ask Mr Michal Ratiborský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my amendments under 2120, 2121, 2122 and 2123. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u188	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mrs Romana Fischerová. I can always see you startled when I summon you, so I'm going to ask Mr. Metnar to prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would briefly like to justify my amendments to the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, House Press 392, which I have put into the system under number 2089, 2092, 2095 and 2097. We've been dealing with the future of our seniors for four days. The opposition is fighting almost 24/7 for that part of society that can no longer defend itself and is very vulnerable. After all, retirement is what the elderly have already earned. Let us not forget that these are people who have worked their whole lives, contributed to the social system, paid taxes, raised children, and financially supported their families. Of course, pensioners' expenditure differs from that of working-age workers. Pensioners don't spend money on travel or education, but most of their costs are spent on housing, medicines, and food. Food prices have gone up record in recent months, and it is estimated that they will continue to grow. In the Czech Republic, food prices rose by 27.2% year on year in December. This price increase has a strong impact on the elderly, and the government will not protect them enough in this. One reason for rising food prices is also the margins of trade chains. In this case, the Czech Government could intervene. In Slovakia, for example, trade chains have undertaken not to increase margins on 15 basic items. Why isn't the Czech government trying to negotiate the same thing with Czech chains? I believe that rather than restricting the pensions of the weakest, who cannot defend themselves, the government should focus on reducing inflation and regulating the dizzying rise in food prices. This week I was not allowed to comment on the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act in the debate. I feel reduced to the rights of a democratically elected Member, and therefore I would like to remind five coalitions of some of the points of their government's programming statement: these are the people who create the prosperity of our country. That's why everyone deserves to know that they're certain of old age. We want a state that belongs to a democratic Europe and that knows that the values of freedom and democracy must be actively promoted and defended. We are a coalition government that represents a large group of people thanks to the presence of five parties. We want to be a government that defends the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic. All this week, however, we have witnessed your condescending behavior and your arrogance. Where have your values of freedom and democracy gone? This clearly shows that instead of defending citizens' interests, what you promised voters in the election campaign were empty phrases without deeper content and our pensioners, who may even have believed you, will only have eyes for crying and an empty wallet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u190	Thank you. Mr Metnar will now appear, Mr Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u191	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I must begin by saying that I am constantly surprised by the priorities of this government coalition. We have record inflation, the highest number of people at risk of poverty, we lack basic medicines, we have the most expensive energy in the European Union from the point of view of purchasing power and we have a really big problem in the car industry, to which almost half a million employees are connected. However, none of this is interesting enough for the government to deal with it. If it were, we would now be discussing completely different topics here. The seniors are the ones who are most affected by this increase. After all, what do the seniors feel more sensitive than the price of food and the rising cost of housing? But neither can escape, and both are the main reasons why the Czech Republic has record inflation for more than a year. You're saying the seniors are having a really good time considering their average wage, which is why we need to get our hands on it now. That's a really desperate argument. The short-term deviation we are seeing is not due at all to the growth of pensions, but to the decline in real wages. Retirement doesn't really hurt. The fact that other people are poor is the fault of this government. But let me read my amendments. I therefore apply to my amendment under number 2242, in which I propose to increase the amount by which the percentage pension ratio increases in the exceptional period of June 2023, to an amount of CZK 1,460. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount is increased by the pension, which is paid in full as proposed by the Government's bill. I also refer to my amendment under number 2244, in which I propose to increase the amount by which the percentage of pensions increases when increasing pensions in an exceptional period in July 2023, to an amount of CZK 1,531. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are again met, the pension, which is paid in full as proposed by the Government's bill, is increased by this amount. I also refer to my amendment under number 2245, in which I propose to increase the amount by which the percentage of pensions increases when increasing pensions in an exceptional period in June 2023, to an amount of CZK 1,602. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. Finally, I submit to my amendment under number 2246, in which I propose to increase the amount by which the percentage pension ratio increases in the exceptional period of June 2023, to an amount of CZK 1,673. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u192	Another enrollment is Mr Kasal, who is coming, and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u193	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me to express my opinion on the subject. From the point of view of what we have heard here, I too would add my amendments in my detailed debate and I would like to respond to the government's proposed amendment to the Act on Pension Insurance, the Government's draft law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. I would like to point out that this law has been discussed in a legislative emergency, with which conditions, as they should be fulfilled, I do not agree. At the same time, there is the problem of retroactivity, which I see as the biggest problem. I have my amendments in four options. They concern the adjustment of the fixed financial amount of the proposed pensions and are written in my amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 2336, 2337, 2338 and 2339, which is what I am referring to these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u194	Thank you. Next - Mr Vondráček and Mr Wenzl Lubomír will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u195	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that the Minister has a stamina, that he has really endured almost all of it. I will only ask if someone will control me, because I have considered the number of amendments. I had two already loaded, and I didn't know the numbers at the 5:30 a.m. or when it was. I would like to add, if I am right, so I would like to read my amendment, House document 2323, which reads: Amendment by Radek Vondraček to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, House print number 392, as follows: First. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in (b) the amount of 400 shall be replaced by 1 629. So I wouldn't dive in and load this twice. Do we understand each other? To load four in total. That's my point. I'm sorry we're talking off the mic like this. It's a technical matter. The aim of the amendment is to increase the amount by which the pension percentage increases when the pension is increased by an exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. So much House document 2323. Then he would like to sign up for his amendment, which should be recorded in the system under the designation House document 2324. This is: Amendment of Radek Vondráček to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended and some other laws, House print number 392. And he sounds like he's in I § 67ca para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is (b) CZK 400 is replaced by CZK 1,700. At least I have a round sum. The aim of this amendment is also to increase the amount by which the percentage pension ratio increases in the exceptional period of June 2023. As for the detailed reasoning, which I am therefore in the general debate... In the debate, he did not have the opportunity to make a statement, but I think that the fundamental arguments were made, and I can only add that I have a slightly bitter feeling that it did not have to be all of this if this law had been put forward at another time in a proper legislative process and there was no such conflict between the coalition and the opposition. Not only do we all speak openly here about the matter being brought before the Constitutional Court, but I would also like to remind you that I can imagine a whole series of individual actions brought by those addressees of the legal standard, by those pensioners, that apparently there is nothing to prevent the person who is reduced by his claim, to whom he thinks he has legitimate expectations, from turning to the general court. Now imagine how many people it is. They are not as well organized and as well educated as they were judges, who, when we froze salaries, so they turned to the general courts, won, and eventually it was a very difficult negotiation, such as remission of periodic penalty payments. Now imagine if a million people turned to those courts. So we have a completely collapsed system of general courts. For this reason... or I would like to emphasise it here, and I think that the view is based on the fact that it is based on the legislation that is generally in force, and that was not considered at all. And this is another thing that this government just couldn't handle. It threatened the functioning of the judicial system in the Czech Republic at all. Of course, I don't want to cause any panic here, I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but imagine a catastrophic scenario like this. It's perfectly legitimate for me to talk about him because the Minister was talking about the disaster scenario the other night about the 600 billion. That's what I think is also a completely catastrophic scenario that basically couldn't (?) there will only be a case where the government and the government majority would do absolutely nothing if there were no debate at all in the Chamber of Deputies and if we were in the role of passive viewers. That's just not gonna happen. So I can only hope that those who are reduced to their rights will not turn into an organized form, those who will really reduce their income from the consumer basket. And I was really struck by demagogy, for example, and I think it was a colleague of Lochman who said here that we actually demagogically perform here and that people are worried that they're going to lose 1,000 crowns less. I think those seniors have a pretty clear understanding that they're not gonna lose those... Well, I think you said it, but if you didn't, I'm sorry. But on a factual note, my colleague, I think it's traceable. It's just that nobody's gonna take 1,000 crowns out of their current amount now. Of course, and they're even going to be added, of course, but they're really going to lower their income because the prices are going up. And specially retired people are even more dependent, they have a different consumer basket, they have more spending on food in terms of energy than some others do. And it really seems like a carpet raid to me lately. It started off by canceling or reducing the fare discount, it was just an attempt, it was such a warning shot, but now it's coming, one punch after another. And it's all about my family members, too. It is considered to increase the price of the motorway stamp, it is considered to reduce the valorisation of pensions. He's considering... Now I've read freshly, and I've got a--I don't. I don't have the Minister of Health here. But yesterday I read that he's considering reinstating health fees. I thought we had abandoned this topic once and for all. I, if I can speak for myself, and now I have a fresh experience just from the hospital, I am a person who has a decent income, which is relatively healthy, I can pay a little extra, I can pay a fee. But I hope no one even thinks for a second that there will be a lot of charges going back to the elderly. And basically, I read ideas like that in the media every day. I'm just warning you that we're meeting here again night after night over some other regulations. I would like to see at least some basic dialogue taking place in the Chamber of Deputies. I don't think we've spent as many nights here as we did in this parliamentary term. And please don't throw it at the opposition, because we don't vote for it after 19 and 21 o'clock, on the contrary, we always vote for interruption. Maybe there was a vote last night to continue at 9:00 a.m. This is your working method of this government majority to go through the night to meet. Don't throw it at the opposition. That is why EET 270 days were discussed, because we discussed it in due course of business and at 19.00 we went home. And we let the opposition sleep, and we let the opposition go to lunch. Maybe here you can pat yourself on the back like you've chosen tactics and who you guys are, how you want to physically melt us down here. But it's a bad method that turns against us in the end. And maybe I was now, because I'm not on break, so I took advantage of the moment when there was a priority right, and I went to lunch. And there's all the main diaries in the MP's restaurant, or the major ones, and when you look at the front page, there's nothing on either front page about the fact that there's actually the longest conflict between the opposition and the coalition and the longest obstructive clash since I've ever been a MP, that's nine years. We haven't had a longer meeting here, overnight, no breaks. Something like this has never happened before. And yet the media isn't interested. [[16.50 hours]] Basically, we've already encapsulated ourselves here and it's only because we don't communicate with each other, and it's only because the petitioner, the government of the Czech Republic represented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, didn't present it until February, I guess on the 21st, if I'm not mistaken, and he wants to have it settled in a few days. If we end this today in any way, the law will actually be passed in the order of days. I, as a representative of Parliament, have circled many parliaments of Europe and the world. They bragged to us in Azerbaijan, for example, that when it comes down to it, they would adopt the law in forty-eight hours. But I'm proud of our parliamentary tradition. I don't need us to take the law like we did in Azerbaijan. I hope I haven't touched my friends in Azerbaijan right now. But we just have some standard rules here, some legislative process, and we're just not here to adopt laws in three days, when they're not really essential, essential, extraordinary, exceptional circumstances, which are remembered by Article 8 of the Security Act of the Czech Republic, and then by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in those constraints that the Constitutional Court has set up in the past and which we are violating here. No state of war. No threat to the state. No major threat to citizens' freedom and fundamental rights. No significant economic damage is imminent. For there is no harm in paying a pensioner what he has already been entitled to. That's what I think is the main message you've been listening to for days, you may be frustrated about it, but you're listening to it with every right. And we're gonna stuff it down into you because we know we're right. And the obstruction isn't self-inflicted. Obstruction is the ultimate, ultimate instrument the opposition has. And we have no joy whatsoever in applying it, and it's just a reaction to some action. Again, the fact that we're here at night is not our work. We have proposed several times to interrupt the meeting to act under some humane conditions and to have a reasonable dialogue with each other. In a situation where we've been here for four days and three nights, don't be mad at me, I'm quite a consensual person, but those emotions are just in everyone and a reasonable dialogue and some rationality is gradually fading away. That's what I wanted to say as part of my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u196	Mr Wenzl will now appear and prepare Mr Faltýnek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u197	Madam President, Madam Minister, Dear Ministers, fellow Members, allow me, too, briefly, to comment on today's point on the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. Here I am applying to my four amendments, which are listed in the system under number 2132, 2178, 2179, 2180. I would like to state that, if this proposal is adopted as it is presented, there will again be an impact on the most vulnerable group of our citizens. So let us try to reach an agreement, support these amendments of mine. I think it's a reasonable compromise. We can find a solution. Because if we mention in the media today that the balloon has been released so-called, regulatory fees, other things, and so on, it would be an intervention in the most vulnerable groups of our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u198	Mr Faltýnek is not present, so Mr Brabec will speak and Mr Wenzl Milan will follow. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u199	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, well, I didn't have the opportunity to speak on the previous points, but, of course, I don't want to, even if I'd like to do it for an hour, I don't want to go back to all that formal, legislative stuff, that means assessing the state of legislative emergency. And in those next steps, although I don't think I'm going to surprise you here if I say what I think about it. After all, you have heard our club's position repeatedly. But I'd like to go back to the numbers. It's been said here a few times. That means what the numbers are about, what the amount is, or what the amounts are. And if we look at the amount of CZK 34 billion that would have to be paid out in the context of the extraordinary valuation, and that's why the proposal goes down to about CZK 20 billion, so that means we're actually talking about some 14, 15, somebody's saying 19 billion crowns. And I am just reminiscing what has been done here several times, our President Andrej Babiš had it in his speeches or speeches, that when we look at the state budget expenditure for this year, the planned expenditure of the state budget, when we look at the planned deficit of the state budget, which, as many of us fear, does not have to be the final figure, the amount against it is relatively negligible. In other words, as the Minister of Finance Stanjura has repeatedly said in the media, it should not be difficult to deal with it within the state budget. And we also remember how optimistic the five-wheeler was not only before the elections, but, of course, after the election, when she talked about how she would find the resources, how she would help herself on the spending side. Well, now we're starting to see how he's helping himself, because the first major proposal goes at the expense of the most vulnerable, that is, our seniors. So it's clear that you can't be surprised that there's, of course, a wave of resistance that we've been expressing for these hours, tens of hours and days, because of course, those who are most concerned can't directly defend themselves here. Although, as has been said here, many already have the conflict of interest that they are at that retirement age, so they can already defend themselves and some have done so. But it's a huge number of hundreds of thousands or millions of seniors that you're actually wasting on the money that they could actually have had with some legitimate expectation and should have, so they speak with the mouth of their elected representatives, of course. And I'm one of those elected deputies, and I like to interpret it here. You knew, colleagues, colleagues from the five-wheeler, from the ruling coalition, that the valorization would take place. To say that it couldn't be entirely estimated, that's what I've been reminding you of in some of my speeches a few days ago, that I'm rather distraught, because it was said somewhere that the Minister of Finance had been distraught when he saw the inflation estimate... Well, I'm more of a pain in the ass about how you weren't ready for what might happen. And I've also talked about it in the galleys with the Minister of Finance, and I've also said, Minister, if you hadn't put a zero in terms of the extraordinary valorisation, but you've put 20 billion in there, then if it wasn't 20 billion and it had to be 35 billion, you're only looking for the 15. But you're looking for the 35 today. And I don't think there can be any rational answer to that either. Because putting that zero in there is very irresponsible, for me unbelievable. [[17,00 hours]] And since I've been doing that minister for eight years, I don't mean finance, thank God, but the Minister of the Environment, but, of course, within our budget, which was relatively negligible against the state budget, I know very well how the former President of the ODS Club, the MP, would have been plucking me to pieces. But that would have happened to me on the committees if I hadn't planned maybe 100 million crowns. But there were just tens of billions missing, so it was definitely a mistake. It was the Minister of Finance's fault, it was the Ministry of Finance's fault, and at that point, of course, it's the government's fault that it doesn't have such a substantial amount planned at all. I don't think there's any excuse for that. I think that many of you understand that this is a very bad defense, and I also think that the defense on your part would be significantly more forceful and harsh if you had the legitimate reasons why you would explain it to us. And once again, I can imagine that everything cannot be planned, not even that inflation, of course, that the level of inflation could have surprised whether 17 percent or 19 percent, but what is completely indefensible and what you're building on today is that there simply wasn't a crown for the extraordinary valorisation. It's just not explainable. It's completely out of reality. That's incomprehensible. And each of us would get a terrible soda for defending this here in the opposite position, and today we're standing here, or sitting right now, in your place, and you'd be talking from this step, and of course you'd be rightfully blaming us for what kind of government we're not able to plan for, like, dozens of billions of crowns. That means, again, it's underestimating, it's grossly underestimating the situation, and it would be very cheap and hypocritical to blame us today, that we're stalling here because of it, when it was things that couldn't be estimated. There was no way to estimate the case of covid when we were really faced - and I think Mr. Babiš said so too. Yes, we know that you have a more difficult situation, because there are the effects of war, they are very difficult to estimate, on the other hand we had the same effect of the covid, which was also critical at the time, no one knew how it would turn out, no one knew how it would turn out, and we also had to deal with it somehow and of course you didn't make it easy for us, you also had a whole series of comments, how we should have seen it, how we should have expected it, how we should have been prepared. And we fought back, too, but today -- and it's karma, it's fair -- today those positions just turned around, and then you have to put up with it again. That means, it was clear that valorisation had to happen. Yes, we could talk and argue about how much it would be worth. koneckonců all, the National Budget Board talked about it, pointed it out in December. Of course, the opposition also pointed out that. And it's important to actually say those amounts, because that budget was definitely burdened with a high degree of uncertainty and risks, and it certainly played a role in that there was some psychological limit to the deficit that you didn't want to get under. After all, you may also recall debates on the sum of CZK 50 billion relating to the State Environmental Fund, where the money hangs in the air. I've talked about it many times, I've never actually gotten an answer - where the money is, how it got into that budget, so why are they artificially reducing the deficit, where they're coming from? The Minister of Finance didn't say a word at the time. He kept his mouth shut. And once again, if it were the other way around, it would haunt me day and night, it would appear to me as a nightmare, which will constantly ask: Mr. Minister, where is the money you planned? You've got those smashed out somewhere. And it's exactly the same here. And it's not just a numbers game, because the numbers have a very specific impact on what we're dealing with right now, because if it was planned, it was well planned, or at least planned, so of course we're not in a situation right now that you have a big problem finding the money. But again, in the amount of the deficit, but above all, when we compare it to the revenue of the state budget, which, if I remember correctly, is over 2,000 billion, 2,200 billion this year, that amount is definitely not crucial. That means I don't want to go back to what's fallen a few times. I have to say, what was quite incredible for me to listen to, too, is that the payment of a proper claim based on legislation could possibly become economic damage. This is indeed a very innovative idea ad absurdum, really drawn to absurdity, when we said that, therefore, our seniors, but not only seniors, but also others, are causing economic damage by their claims given by legislation. And I've been saying, and I insist that during our reign, we've been adding a lot of money to teachers, soldiers, police, firefighters, seniors, and if it's caused economic damage to the state, I'm proud to claim it. But if we really were to judge it that way, I think we're completely beyond reality. You argued, yes, you argued by the Presidency, you argued by war, you argued by saying that many of these things simply could not be accurately estimated. But again, if we look at the sum, you really should deal with it. You were optimistic, you had the ambition to find it in order, I think Vice-President Skopeček said it here, the Excellent table, and I think a number of others, that you'll find the tens of billions of crowns that you'll in turn cut into earlier, according to your speeches, ate by the budget. We know how it turned out. You've added other expenses to that budget, other ministries, other people and so on and so on. And in the end, in the finals, you're going to say that this isn't the end, of course. We know that this is only the beginning of the other costs, or cuts that will follow. And I'm sure it was waiting for the presidential election to end, because it could really strengthen Andrej Babiš's candidate against the elected president back then, and now it's just about to start rushing. But this first thing is clear, the impact of course this year, the next years are clear, and our seniors are gonna lose that particular money. We'll do everything we can to keep them from being lost. You want to do whatever it takes to take them away. We're different here, and I really don't see any compromise here. Also here many times today, and not just today, even in the past days, it has been falling as to how inflation could be reduced, because that is what all this is coming from. Let me just remind you that for that group of pensioners, not only for that group of pensioners, but that group of pensioners is specific, so inflation is driven primarily by energy prices that fall into everything, they fall into housing, water prices, electricity prices, heat prices and food prices. And the growth of these items, of course, is more affecting low-income households. And elderly households are by their very nature low-income, and even after valorisation, they have the average wage ratio at half the average wage. It is simply clear that inflation has hit the poorest households the most, and it has just increased their cost of living the most. And those people with higher incomes have more options to control the consequences of inflation, how to deal with it, how to make some money, but pensioners don't have that option, or they have very limited money. Of course, a health disability often comes along. It is undoubtedly a very vulnerable group. And you know it, too. You know that. As much as I'm afraid that group of voters isn't that interesting to you, of course, and that's why it's the first group to take it away from you. [[17.10 hours]] And yes, it's been falling many times that you don't actually take the money away from them, you just don't give it to them. So the Czech is so rich in this. But if there's a real claim to that money coming from something, it's in the legislation, so frankly, you wouldn't like it if someone suddenly came, like an employer, and he says, well, you're entitled to it, but we're not going to give you the money. At that point, you're in a situation where someone doesn't give you the money you're entitled to. And I think that many of you would take that money away from you. Because you're entitled to them, the claim originated somewhere, you've already counted on them. So they're like games. But in terms of real impact, because that legitimate expectation was created here, people would lose the money. So I think we can have fun here for hours, if you're taking the money, or if you're not giving it. But for that person, it's basically the same thing, he just doesn't get the money, or he wouldn't get the money he's entitled to. And I don't want to say anything, but it feels really smiling. I understand that from your point of view, of course, there are as many reasons as possible to put it in such a way that actually be happy for the extra seven hundred, because you wouldn't have to get anything either. But those people just really came up with the claim for more, and that's why the conditions of extraordinary valorisation are there in these very emergency situations, the extraordinary increases in inflation are there. Because, as President Babiš and others have already said here, the budget is simply going to roll into it and really drop extraordinary inflationary revenues in the order of many hundreds of billions of crowns. We saw the February result, so it was a warning. But that's just how you deal with it. And you're the government, you have a responsibility. We had it before. We had to deal with it, too, and again, in a situation that wasn't easy either. That means, we're not saying that the government has to control inflation completely. Yes, it is also a matter of the Czech National Bank. But to think that the government doesn't really play any role here, either. Again - legal valorisation versus the proposal, when we are talking about some difference of 14, 15, 20 billion crowns tops, and we are talking about what the extraordinary revenues are that are coming from inflation, so it is really negligible. Again - discussing that we are in some kind of economic danger, that there is a threat of economic damage, that is an incredible argument for me. And if we even allow her, legally or factually, I think that if today again... please think about how absurd that is. How absurd it is that the claim of a group means economic damage to this state, that these people simply do not receive the money, so teachers would not receive it. We already know that you also want, or do you propose to limit the money for teachers, only for educators and not non-teaching workers. There's some legitimate expectations all over the place. But here, the expectations are clearly based on legislation. There have already been other things falling that I think a number of our fellow citizens do not understand why the valorisation, or why it will not also decrease in church restitutions, why the coalition has decided to increase its salaries, or, of course, the salaries of politicians and other categories. And here, too, you haven't cheated. That means these are all things that are very difficult to explain. And I have to say, if I was on the other side of this and got into that situation, I wouldn't really be performing at all, because I wouldn't have the arguments for it, and it would be embarrassing to defend it, because I don't think it's even very defendable. I say, I do not want to go back to these legal things, although I had a number prepared there, I have prepared some interesting views on it, but I am not a lawyer and from this point of view there have been many arguments, whether from my colleague Vondráček, Professor Válková and others, and it has been a kind of legal disputation about it - a state of legislative emergency yes or no. But I'm saying again, it's somehow bridged, even though I think about it, of course, or whether there's retroactivity, I also have a pretty clear opinion about it. Anyway, we're talking about who's getting hit. And I'm convinced that this is shameful, the suggestion that you did this as a government, at the beginning of the Treasury, under some kind of pressure, whether political or any other, difficult mistakes. And today, of course, you're reaping the consequences of these mistakes, which means trying to enter into some, say, sensible -- forgive me the word -- a reasonable deficit that won't look completely insane, but will catch up with the government anyway. I'm reminiscing about the debates we had over the budget. And now it's clear. It's after the presidential election, and all of a sudden, we're looking at considerations about a possible increase in health fees, tax increases, reductions in sums that teachers could expect, in this case, they're pensioners with the greatest impact. We see here a corrected or modified programming statement by the government, which, of course, some of the optimistic assumptions that we have heard before and after the elections, when you were presenting a programming statement, are simply taking on their own, because you see that it is not so easy to rule, and it is not so easy to find the money, of course, and yet really to pass through the famous Skylla and Charybda, that is, between the fact that the finance minister doesn't fall apart from it to take it and what the individual chapters want him to do. And believe me, I enjoyed it quite well then, either with our Minister of Finance or with the Minister of Finance. And it's clear. But I say again, I can never imagine going not only to this magnificent Chamber of Deputies as opposed to facing you Members and Members, but even to those committees, and going there with a budget, even if the budget was lower in order, maybe two times lower than what we are now dealing with in the state budget and the impact on pensioners, but I didn't have such essential things there. You'd really kick me out, and you'd be completely right. You'd just be right that such a minister shouldn't be here, because either he got fitted in to keep something out of the way, so he wouldn't put something in there with the fact that he pulled it out of his hat like a rabbit when it was better suited, because now it wasn't appropriate for some reason, rather political, or he just couldn't figure it out that he couldn't figure it out. And I don't really know what's worse. If I take again what proposal you're coming here with, that means actually losing our seniors that amount this year and, of course, more in the next years, and you're saying, well, they're doing well now, so why should they be doing better again, because we're just giving them enough anyway, so it's totally unacceptable for me. I find it truly shameful. And I wonder how many of you, who I've known here for many years, and I've been with some of you, let's say, in the former coalition's jersey, how are you able to defend it, because I wouldn't have been able to defend it. [[17.20 hours]] In this context, I therefore subscribe to the amendments that are in the House system under numbers 2299, 2300, 2301, 2302, and these amendments concern Art. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (b) the amount of CZK 400 is replaced by - and now: for the amendment 2299 it is CZK 1 428; for the proposal 2300 it is CZK 1 499; for Amendment 2301 it is CZK 1 570 and for the fourth amendment, which is recorded under number 2302, it is CZK 1 641. The aim of all these amendments is therefore to increase the amount by which the percentage pension ratio increases when the pensions are increased in an exceptional period in June of this year, and if the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, the pension, which is paid in full, is increased by this amount, as proposed by the Government's draft law, is proposed. I hope, dear colleagues, that you will at least choose one of those sums which - ideally, of course, the highest - could at least partially compensate for what the government coalition is coming with today, unless you still want to think about it, this shameful proposal, and could compensate for our seniors getting their money, which they are really waiting for, and which would definitely help them deal with the difficult situation in their lives, which many have just gone through a huge increase in inflation and hence by increasing prices. And once again, it is a category that is threatened by this price increase indeed very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u200	Mr Wenzl's speech follows and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. [[Member Wenzl tripped and fell on his arrival at the speaker's desk. Minister Jurečka and other Members immediately came to help.]] Are you okay, please? If you don't feel well, you can get off later, of course. [[Milan Wenzl: No, thank you.]] Okay. I'll play you a microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government coalition's social conscience has spoken. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs has submitted an anti-constitutional antisocial law designed to take money from their pensions, to which they have already been entitled under the current legislation of the auditorial scheme. This is a practice truly worthy of a good folklore who recently claimed that he wanted to be the social conscience of the coalition. Your approach, Minister Jurečka, is not only ruthless, which is an increasingly common characteristic of the way this coalition is governed, but it is illegal and unconstitutional. As I mentioned above, pension valorisation has already created legal entitlement for pensioners, because material rights have already been met, and therefore the government should comply with the existing rules for valorisation and follow them. If this government wants to change the valorisation rules, their change should apply exclusively to future valorisations which have not yet been legally claimed by pensioners in order to exclude the very retroactivity of the government's procedure and thus not question the legal certainty of pensioners. And finally, to the unconstitutional. The conditions for examining a bill in a legislative emergency are defined as follows: The state of legislative emergency in accordance with Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies can be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. The situation of legislative emergency shall be declared by the President of the House on a proposal from the Government under the Rules of Procedure, which may be declared for a certain period of time. In a declared state of legislative emergency, the President of the House may decide...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u202	Mr. Ambassador, just load the print numbers. Really, it's enough. [[Mr Kubíček offers that he will finish the proposal.]] Yes, I also believe that it is no longer necessary...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u203	I'll read it again... I am reporting for my amendment under number 2247, 2248, 2249 and 2250. Thank you. And I'm sorry about the rest of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u204	Thank you. We understand that, of course. [[Several Members shall accompany Mr Milan Wenzl to his place.]] Mr Juchelka will now appear, Mrs Pastuchová is also ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u205	Thank you very much. Madam President, Minister, Madam Minister, I would like to justify here my amendments which are already part of the system. If we look at the very beginning of how this inflation was created here during last year, and we know that it was also caused by the energy crisis that was caused by the war in Ukraine, of course, that inflation was constantly growing. And I'm glad that just 14 years ago, the vending machine was approved, which is actually a constant guarantee that if inflation grows, then all pensions will automatically be valued. In the current pension insurance law, which we are talking about today, the valorisation increase in pensions is actually set up as a mandatorial automaton. Once the conditions are met, it is created simply and simply by current seniors to increase the pension, whether it be retirement, disability, widowed, simply entitled. In my opinion, the conditions have already been met because of the fact that the annual inflation, which skipped, of course, 5%, as it is in the law, has already been here on February 10th, and we are really three weeks later. And here I believe that legitimate expectations have arisen for all old-age pensioners. The Constitutional Court has already stated several times that if any law arises, which, of course, we know is already on 10 February, even though this law is not yet effective, as the Constitutional Court says, such a right cannot be withdrawn unilaterally. And I feel like this is what this government coalition is trying to do. And how does he try to do that? It seeks to do so by the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which is, in our opinion, retroactive, and there it says that the Constitutional Court will decide. They are trying, as we often point out here and say, indeed in a scandalous state of legislative emergency, which is not at all part of discussing this amendment, which is not adapted to it at all, because it is not a danger of a state, it is not that fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are being trampled on, and it is not at all that there is any economic damage, such as a natural disaster such as a tornado or a flood. [[17.30 hours]] So in our opinion, it is wrong to discuss this law in a state of legislative emergency, which you also say will be decided by the Constitutional Court. And we have also been witnessing the way you approach the House's Rules of Procedure for the last four days here in this Chamber, which is also a law, how it is rubbery for you, how you bend it, how you twist it, and of course the Constitutional Court will decide that. In short, and simply that you want them to be added instead of CZK 1,770 to just 760, so the entire House meeting is in the hands of the Constitutional Court, and you as a government don't mind, because you're throwing that responsibility right at them, on how they might decide in a few months. If he decides it was wrong, and if he drops this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act here, we will have to pay back exactly up to CZK 1 770 to each individual old-age pensioner this amount - in proportion, of course, to how high his old-age pension is, what is the merit there and the basic average of that pension - back and I fear that the Czech Social Security Administration will have to pay back all these people's pensions and some penalty payments. In short, the responsible government would no longer use this argument, simply canceling this whole amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, sending this House home after those four days, but instead, it just leads to that extreme situation. The responsible government would have kept an eye on the legislative process. This means that she would discuss it in the Chamber of Deputies if she did not despise it, at first, second and third reading, that is, in the classic legislative process, if we too were part of various committees, such as the Social Policy Committee, which would examine it from the social side, or the constitutionally-legal committee, which would examine it from the very point of view of the legislation, and we could come up with a solution in some time frame that would actually be viable for everyone. But at this point, back, really backwards, retroactively, changing the law in the third period of the game just seems very inappropriate to me, even though I would say that it is irresponsible for old-age pensioners and all those others who are entitled to this valorisation. We say that all the time. It's for that reason, and I think it's quite obvious that you did it on purpose, because if you were discussing it in a proper legislative process, and all those pensioners who would have legitimate expectations since that February 10th, that they would expect some amount precisely because of the extraordinary valorisation, they would be very surprised that you just want to pay them less, and maybe those presidential elections would have turned out the same way, maybe otherwise, who knows, but the fear in you not to put it, the courage to do it here in time and in the classic legislative process, simply and simply realized where we are now, at 17.33, is Friday 3. 3. Maybe we'll be here until morning, because we might want to rest a little bit more, so we'll definitely take the two two-hour breaks so that we can look freshly at how we'll vote for the various amendments at the third reading, so we'll see how it all turns out. But we didn't have to be here, because it's all in the hands of you, the government, the government MPs, and the hundred and eight. Why the inflation went up, of course, I've already said that. It's because there's been an energy crisis. At this point, we can see how not only the elderly, but especially how young families with children are threatened, are really fighting on all fronts. We have higher food prices, we have higher fuel prices, higher energy prices, there are also a number of young families who can't even get to the mortgage if they want to get their own housing, and they are very surprised if their fixation ends at this point and they have to sign new contracts, because everything here is growing enormously. And it is because we simply have the third largest inflation in the European Union, and that makes prices of everything grow in our eyes de facto every day. The average consumer price index per household is 115.1; that's actually 15.1 percent of the inflation. With those old-age pensioners it's rising even more, because the consumer price index they have is different from the normal household, they have other commodities that they need in their lives, and that's 15.6, and even for food, basic foods and soft drinks, it's rising even more, and that's already 17.1 percent. That's why we're here, and that's why we're hunting for people who are old-age pensioners not to fall into poverty and that, if we deny them de facto the CZK 1,770, they don't end up in employment offices. Because the worst thing is, we're just gonna put the money in one pocket to another administratively, because if they don't get what's due to them, they can really fall into a housing allowance, for example, and they're just gonna go to the employment office for the State to help them and pay their living costs, just like they're entitled to, because you know that a few months ago, we've changed the normative housing costs here that really have a lot to do with the housing contribution. As far as my amendments are concerned, we are proposing different amounts there. I have here, and I am now signing up in the House system to the amendments: 2115, where I am increasing the amount, which is based on the law of 400 crowns, which is proposed by this government, to 1,446; 2116 is another amendment, there is 1 517; 2117 is the number of my next amendment, which is 1 588; and 1 659 is under Amendment 2118. Why is that important? For one simple reason. It's a minimum of what belongs to the elderly. 1 770 kroner, it was clear, clear already on Friday, when the Czech Statistical Office published the inflation number and the month-on-month issue, which I believe was 6.8 %. And even then, the clear three-member was really clear to figure out how much it would cost in the state budget and how much, on average, one old-age pensioner would come up with in that median. We counted the place. Those who have lower pensions, of course, wait around a few hundred crowns in the median of 1 770, those who have the higher income pensions, so there is a need for up to 3,000 crowns. Of course, we're in favour of adjusting the formula for the extraordinary valorization so that the scissors don't open up between the high-income and low-income pensioners. But we could have talked about all this if this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act had passed a classic legislative process. Unfortunately, at this point, we have to - and I was here a few hours ago with our club's position - not to support this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, because each pensioner loses an average of CZK 1,000 a month, which is by the end of 7,000, and of course it will also be reflected in 2024, which is 12, and so on. And I understand, of course, that this government wants to be financially responsible, budgetaryly responsible, I understand this government here, which says where it should take, then, when it has the biggest deficit in the history of the Czech Republic in 30 years of our history, in more than 30 years of our history after 1989 in the very February issue, which is CZK 117.9 billion, so I understand that it is trying to save where it can be and that it is trying to reduce. [[17.40 hours]] And the biggest number that actually arises is really from the point of view of the pensions, because the mandatorial expenditure is simply the highest in the Czech budget, whether we say yes or no. But as I say, if the responsible government were to rule responsibly, for example, it would not disturb the EET, which brought 14 billion crowns into the budget, it would certainly take better care of the windfall tax, now that we all know that energy companies and banks have already consolidated their profits, that we will not withdraw, we will not take into the state budget what the government promised. And I remember when the Treasury Secretary put his head on the block, so we don't worry that it's definitely gonna be, like, 80 billion crowns and so on. A responsible government would manage well with the money that was put into the budget through inflation, and that is CZK 137 billion extra. So, personally, I feel like this government just doesn't really know how to finance, and that's why we're here, we've been here for the fourth day because it wants to take the funds to those who are one of the most vulnerable, and they're old-age pensioners. They cannot find another, second, third job, as some economic advisors of this government advise, for example, families with children. They can't come to somebody else because they just and simply have 30 years in a row of careers, more money, and they're making some money. They are dependent on the solidarity, the social reconciliation that we have here and which works very well here among the rich, the poor, between the old, the young, the sick and the healthy, and which here and this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act is breaking down a little bit. And you, as a government, are also fluctuating him with some of those speeches where you are putting the elderly and, for example, young families with children against each other, because, as we learned - and I understand that the Minister then took it back, and that he also has the desire to increase parental contribution thanks to the pro-family policy - that if it is not for parental contribution, it is because we have paid the entire insurance policy here in this pension insurance law, that is CZK 1,770, which is CZK 34.4 billion in the budget package, which at this time reduces this government to CZK 15 billion, so we are really talking about 19.5 billion, which is CZK 2 trillion 235 billion, really some 0.80%. And I don't think we really have to spend four days and four nights here for 19 billion. Cor, if we all know that it simply and simply belongs to the elderly. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u206	Before I give the floor another logged in, I have apologies. Mr Bartošek Jan from 23:00 to 9:00 a.m. apologizes for personal reasons, Mrs Schillerová Alena from 16:50 a.m. to 17:45 a.m. for work reasons, Minister Vlastimil Válek apologises from 18:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. for personal reasons. And I have one more announcement because I don't know if I could say it in the rest of my presidency. On the basis of the information I have also provided to the presidents of all clubs, including the opposition, we would reduce the time we are voting on this whole block from 20 seconds to 15 seconds, partly saving some time. So that's the announcement that we're gonna reschedule the voting device. It's nothing unusual. In the past, the time was really this long. However, they are all informed of this from the point of view of the club presidents. Mrs Pastuchová will now speak, followed by Mrs Adámková. I still forgot to load Mr. Wenzl Milan's apology, who called it a microphone here, I suppose it's done for health reasons and without giving up time. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, after four days, for the first time, apart from factual remarks, I can have the floor, I am very happy for that. We're all tired, and I'm sure we're all looking forward to going home, but let me express myself for at least a short time, not as long as I was ready. I would just like to mention that I am also very sorry that the Committee on Social Policy, of which I am Vice-President, and President Kaňkovský, through you, the President has recommended that we have a debate that you have not allowed us to have. And so I'm also glad that the contributions that I've been preparing, and who's preparing the contributions themselves and not doing it to him by assistants or his advisory teams, so he knows that he's going to spend some time with it, and then he's kind of sorry if someone gets stuck and can't express himself, because I think we're spending a lot of time here right now, maybe we're still going to be spending, and so it didn't seem fair to me, so we just used something here, I'm the third term I don't remember yet, or maybe I don't remember that this would be the end of the debate. But maybe I'm wrong. I was here last night because I didn't want to fall asleep, so I read from February 2016 the meetings and performances of individual opposition Members at the time, as Mr Stanjura, through you, Mr Fiala, and others who were here at the time, and so I kind of laughed at what these Members were blaming us for, and we spent many hours here as well, and you also gave us a lot of fun. I think tonight, you guys have been through a lot worse than we have, because we've set up a couple of wake-ups for you, and we've taken some breaks too. I don't think it had to be that way at all, if the agreement to let us all talk could have been over by now, and we could have been at home with our families by now. Unfortunately, this has not happened, so we have no choice but to go on and express ourselves at least at a time that you have already allowed us to. I welcome the Prime Minister. I'm so glad he's always coming over for five minutes, nothing to tell us about what we're saying here, and he's gonna walk away again. I'd like to say that there are eight of us, as my colleague said. I'm not going to be here much longer to read my speeches, because, as I said, I thank our President, Mr Babiš, for being so kind and those speeches that we have prepared that will not go to waste, our work that at least some of them are here. I will address my eight House amendments. And I would just like to ask very much, because I really remember it from 2016, as you have championed our rapporteur here, and we still have four hours of breaks like two clubs, and I would like to ask that the rapporteur really prepare the exact wording of the amendments that we will be voting to know what we are voting on, because at that time it also stopped a little bit and you wanted to know exactly what we are voting on and not just the figures. So I'm just pointing it out. If you don't give it to us, we've got the breaks here. Thank you. I would therefore comment on my amendments. I'll read it slowly, then I'll give it to you, rapporteur. So my first amendment is under House number 2315, where it is in Rule 2315. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii)) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) [[ca]] (b) CZK 400 is converted into CZK 1,466. [[17.50 hours]] I think my colleagues have already said it here, but I'll just read it on the first one. The reasoning is the same for all seven. The aim of this amendment is to increase the amount by which the percentage pension ratio is increased when raising pensions in an exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. So under the number 2315 is the amount of CZK 1,466. The second amendment is under print 2316, where the amount of CZK 400 is replaced by CZK 1,537. [[Number]] The next amendment that I introduced into the system is under number 2317, when the amount of 400 crowns is replaced by the amount of CZK 1 608. The next amendment is under the number 2318, when the amount of CZK 400 is increased to CZK 1,679. The fifth amendment is under number 2068, when the amount of 400 crowns is increased to CZK 1,468. The next amendment is mentioned under number 2069, when the amount of CZK 400 is replaced by CZK 1,539. And another amendment is House number 2070, where the sum of 400 crowns is replaced by CZK 1 610. [[document]] And the eighth, my last amendment is under number 2071, when the amount of CZK 400 is replaced by CZK 1,681. So, I have read my amendments. There are eight colleagues behind me. We actually have a third reading ahead of us, so if there's a possibility, or I don't know what you're thinking, if you cut us down, I'd keep some notes until the third reading. Thank you for this and I look forward to another nice night in your company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u208	The following is Mrs Adámková, who, if I am not mistaken, I do not see, which is why she is moving to the end, but Mr Pražák is present and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u209	Good evening, almost tonight. Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I would like to apply to my amendment under number 2182, which is recorded in the system, which has four parts, where I propose a fixed fixed amount for which pensions are to be valued. This is the amount of CZK 1 472, CZK 1 543, CZK 1 614 and CZK 1 685. At the same time, a justification is recorded in the system. I would also like to sign up for the amendments by my colleague Karel Tureček, which are recorded in the system under the number 2157, 2158, 2159, 2160, where fixed fixed amounts are also proposed. I have also been denied the right to speak in the general debate, so I would perhaps just briefly mention some of the things that lead me to do, in addition to the reasoning which is recorded in the system, to the fact that I will not support this amendment or this draft amendment of the law, and why I have also made amendments. I might turn a little bit to the right of my colleagues from the Mayors, now I mean it as if in a good way, there aren't a lot of them here, but I listened to an interview at the Radiožurnal of Senator Canov, who is Vice President of the Senate Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm from the Liberec Region, he and I respect him as a person, and I don't have anything ironic here, I mean it deadly seriously, and I think it would be worth it if you colleagues listened to it, because he said a few things that assured me in my belief that I would not support the law. The moderator has already asked him, given what he has expressed in recent weeks, whether he will really raise his hand for the law. He made it clear that he would not raise his hand for it, that he saw the law as unconstitutional, whether due to approval in a legislative emergency and even to retroactivity. At the same time, he asked him if he considered the $20 billion as if it could be the economic damage that was argued here, so he made it clear that he didn't. I quote: "It's about 1% of the budget. Unfortunately, we now have hundreds of billions of deficit budgets repeatedly. In this respect, I certainly do not consider this to be significant economic damage. On the contrary, it's a drop in the sea. But the point is, it must be an extraordinary, unexpected situation." The senator clearly said: "This is what everyone expected. I mean, it's a mandatorial expense under a law that's been going on for decades. This cannot be called an extraordinary event, and yet in connection with this damage. She is even a question of whether pension rights or pensions can be called a pity at all." And yet another thing that confirmed me was how it explains that this government did not submit a proposal earlier, if it felt that it had neglected, it clearly said that the government had overslept. The government was supposed to come up with this in the fall, we could talk about it in standard legislative procedure, and we didn't have to sit here right now. Well, that's one thing. And the second I would read here, again from the Liberec Region from us, such a short e-mail that I received this week and which assured me in my position, and was sent to me by representatives of the Union of Health and Social Welfare Workers, the basic organization Liberec: "Dear Member, I am writing to you in connection with the new pension measures planned by the Government of the Czech Republic. The proposed measures are totally unacceptable to us, honest workers. It is not possible for people who spend their entire lives contributing to the social security system..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u210	Yes. I would like to ask my fellow Members to keep it down so that the Member can proceed undisturbedly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u211	Thank you. "It is not possible for people who spend their entire lives contributing to the social security system to receive a lower pension at a time when everything is becoming more expensive and facing excessive inflation, and they will still have to wait for it until 68 years of age. After all, this is the longest in the whole of the European Union. In addition, employees in the Czech Republic work longer than employees in most countries of the European Union. Dear Member, these steps by the Government of the Czech Republic fundamentally threaten the decent lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger. There must be other solutions to ensure the sustainability of the pension system than merely reducing the amount of pensions or increasing the retirement age. This may, for example, be an improvement in conditions for people who work in physically demanding professions. The government should focus on finding other sources of funding for the pension system that will not come out of employees' pockets. I therefore ask you not to support these steps of the Government of the Czech Republic in the framework of the legislative process." I don't think I'm going to discuss this any further, because I said I had a speech prepared, but we couldn't speak in the general debate. I think it's enough for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u212	Mr Nacher is now on the list, followed by Mr Kubíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u213	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'm glad after four days, I got my turn at least in the third stage. So far, I've only had the opportunity to perform in factual ways where one responds to others. I am also glad that I have attracted the attention of some politicians dealing with the economy, such as my colleague Skopeček, so I can probably expect some factual remarks. [[18.00 hours]] I have four amendments in the system between 2303 and 2306, where there are different amounts increasing the basis in Article 2303 to 2306. Article 1 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) These amounts are between 1,462 and 1,675. I'll explain later. And since the general debate has not been opened, I will now defend the changelings in some way, and their whole context. Maybe I'll be as successful with you colleagues as I was with yesterday's procedural proposal. And that's where I deserve the applause, unlike the procedural proposal. So the first thing that led me to give a procedural proposal to heal is that we're actually dealing with this here in a state of legislative emergency. The only way to heal this is to make an amendment, and when it passes, it's actually the situation that's being corrected and there's room for the negotiations that we've been talking about all along. That means, let's talk about the valorisation mechanism and how to adjust it, but in a normal legislative process. It seems to me, colleagues, that we are essentially spending four days here nonstop to save $19 billion, as you say, so I find it really disproportionate. Because it's 1% of the budget, so your former colleague Miroslav Kalousek would say you have to find it in the budget in five minutes. I'd advise you. For example, you canceled the EET, where we move somewhere between 8 and 13 billion. Depends on what year it was. With inflation, you have more resources. And I'm kind of wondering how we're doing with the expenses around the ceiling. 'Cause when I looked, spot prices were under the ceiling for a while, which means the costs weren't what they were when we all were, and I don't blame you when we all imagined it three or four months ago. And I suddenly think that 19 billion will be there. It just seems disproportionate to me for 19 billion - if you tell someone on the outside that we've been acting like a 24-hour, day, night, day, night, for 19 billion crowns here for four days. But in the budget, and I pointed it out, in the budget for 2023, you didn't have a crown for valorization, so you actually have to add the 15 there, so there are some movements going on anyway. So there would be a logical question as to how the zero was there. Now, the principle of valorization. It's just some kind of legal machine, and we've been talking about it here, and we've been running into it constantly, it's a vending machine that basically from my point of view, you don't have to agree with me, it's supposed to just prevent politicians from entering the election, after the election. As another example, I would mention wages, salaries of constitutional officials. Repeatedly, and you've got it on the screen, I've also looked at it, I've said to connect it to some vending machine, for example, to growth or fall in GDP, and not to deal with it always before the election. But in the case of pensions, the problem is the opposite. Actually, that's where the automaton changes happen after the election. That's completely mirrored opposite, which, by the way, fills up nicely here. And I think there's a problem. That's what I think the problem is that these machines are supposed to prevent the changes that are indirectly retroactivity for me. We can talk about them in the future because criteria, economic situation and the like have changed, but not into a running mechanism. I will be similarly critical if you come here with a change in building savings, which I understand will also have indirect retroactivity. There's one basic argument that you're here... Minister Jurečka also mentioned, and that is that the ratio between the average wage and the average pension - there you are - is now the highest in recent times. And you were showing this graph. He might be here somewhere. But I explained it. That in itself is not enough as a number and as proof of your proposal. Because when you look there, in years when the pensions also grew relatively rapidly, real wages grew much more rapidly, because there was low inflation and economic growth. When economic growth is not or is declining, high inflation is, so suddenly the ratio is changing. But there's absolutely no indication that the seniors are better off. In other words, I'm translating it, you're actually saying that if the senior had a pension of 39 percent of the average wage and now he's 49, he's 10 percentage points better off. In this comparison, yes. But when we look at the cost of his life, it doesn't really match. It doesn't match at all. Which brings me to the subject of inflation. I mean, the inflation, if you look, it's moving, I've been driving around since July of last year, now I'm going after months, 17,5, 17,2, 18, 15,1, 16,2, 15,8, 17,5 in January. So, ladies and gentlemen, from May last year, inflation has not fallen below 15 percent year on year. But the consumer basket in the elderly is completely different. He's completely different. That's where the inflation is much higher. And they don't have a way around it. How do you go around buying drugs, basic foods, rent, electricity? That's where the biggest jumps are. And that's the problem. And so repeatedly, so that I don't get pulled out of context, I don't doubt that let's talk about changing the valorisation mechanism. When I was going through my various documents here last night, I came across such an interesting comparison when you wanted the figures as they developed between 1990 and 2023, the old-age pension, the average salary and the salary of the Member. Thus the old-age pension has increased 12 times in that period, the average wage 13 times, the salary of the Member 14.5 times. I don't mean to imply anything, but at this rate, the average pension went up the slowest. I'm just saying, you can always see it from different angles, that it's not just the one that's right, that there's a lot of numbers. And if I take the numbers that I could use, I'll tell you here that in those things that you're arguing that you're not right about them at all. [[18.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, one more subject, I'd say, plays a role here, and that's the future president. At the beginning of this meeting, it was on Tuesday that I called for him to comment on this subject, because the moment he announced that maybe this standard would be vetoed, there's no time to make it. We could forgive ourselves for four days because you have to complete the process, not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the Senate, and the President has to sign it. So speaking of numbers, inflation, I dare say your arguments are weak. When we're talking about these different relationships, I've proven to you here that taking one ratio out of context is not enough in itself. When we're talking about the valorisation mechanism in general, it's the first phase of pension reform for me, and that's just connected. It's a typical thing where a coalition has to communicate with the opposition. It has to, because it goes far beyond one parliamentary term. And I'm afraid that's not happening. I'll explain why. This is not happening because there are five of you in the government, you have different views, logically from the left, from the right, liberal, conservative, so it takes a long time for you to agree. And it's a lot of work. And then when you agree, you're actually giving us these things in a sense - either we agree or we're unlucky. But dealing with the opposition with those things that go beyond one parliamentary term can't be built like that. You need to follow us the moment we can rework it. Then we're having fun, looking for some compromises, and then there's the vote. You might know that we criticized him here on the budget, and I've been performing here repeatedly, and there wasn't a minute of obstruction because these things don't revolve. But at the beginning of the parentheses, there's the communication, and unfortunately, it's not at anything. For example, I have repeatedly called for the Minister of Finance - he is not here - to discuss the construction savings, so that it is not so that you send it here and can no longer move it. What kind of act is that then? And we're talking about a product that's been here for 30 years. In other words, I say that you come here quite often, including this point, with topics that go beyond one parliamentary term, so you have more responsibility than just declaring it 108. So much for defending the four amendments I'm applying to. This means, under number 2303, you will find an amendment where I raise the sum of 400 crowns, or replace it, to read it exactly, by the amount of 1,462. Under number 2304 it is replaced by amount 1 533, under number 2305 it is replaced by amount 1 604 and under number 2306 it is replaced by amount 1 675 CZK. Thank you for your attention. I cut it short on purpose at the time I spent here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u214	Thank you. Have a nice evening, co-workers, colleagues. We continue with the next performers and this is Mr. Roman Kubíček. Mr. Jiří Mašek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u215	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I hope you'll forgive me, but I'll do one piece of information. Mr Wenzl is fine, he has been put into the care of doctors, and I would like to offer a small thank you from this place, because even in this hall it was seen that there are people here. And I would like to thank, through your thanks, to President Pekarová Adamová, my honored colleague Honza Bartošek and Mr Bureš, for his early assistance and for the fact that these are not really just machines for policy and lawmaking. And thank you all for that. If we were in the American Senate, we'd be applauding. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] And now I am going to turn to defending the amendments, and I am now calling forward to making amendments, or I am going to apply to Mr Faltýnek's amendments, which then, Madam President, you can cross off. At the same time, I will try to defend them. We were talking here, I always said I'd bring something else into it, because we're still talking about legitimacy, expectations, retroactivity and stuff, but we've said that a lot of times here. We haven't gotten to one thing in particular, and this is, for example, the percentage of the pension compared to the average wage. I took the job and looked up some countries of the European Union, I don't say that all of them, and I didn't go to Lithuania and Slovakia, there's a little bit different, but I found countries that are a role model for us, and I also found the share that makes up the pension. Then I'll go from the top. It's Austria. In Austria, we will not talk about absolute amounts, that is nonsense, because our gross national product is not exactly the same, but we will talk about the ratio. The ratio today is 90.3%. On the other hand, to be fair, and I think the people, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will have that information, the pensioners are paying an 8% tax on this pension. They have different conditions, they have a minimum period of 20 years and a maximum period of 41 years. And that's what the pension comes from. However, at that time, education is also included, which is very important. We're not talking about the absolute amount. And the ratio that I put Austria first is the most successful pensioner in the whole of the European Union. Belgium is currently in second place, where the pension is up to 75 per cent for people living in the common household and 60 per cent for others. And even there is a condition for processing even up to 45 years, but once again with the inclusion of a certain education. It is followed by France, where this pension ratio is 60,4 %. The conditions are much softer there, only 35 years or the last 20 years worked in the last 30 years. The next country is Germany. That's interesting. I thought it would be higher. It's 579 percent there. From this you can see that 49 percent in the Czech Republic is no rarity, no tragedy. I know you're going to argue that we have some external and internal circumstances here. High inflation, war in Ukraine. I understand that they're cooperative causes. Here I see a colleague of Mr Skopeček sitting here, through Madam President. So it is such a peculiarity that happens to us here, and it is an inflation differential, because the currency behaves completely differently than it should be, because inflation outside, in the Republic, is lower than in the Czech Republic, and the currency should weaken in global, because there should be demand for other sources of finance. However, this probably suggests that demand for goods is decreasing at the moment, that these people are buying less. That's the only explanation I could find. I know that Mr. Skopeček's colleague is going to argue a little bit, because I'm from a different school than he is. I prefer a little different economists. And now for the question. So that we don't have to stand here and fight, we have to do one crucial thing. The one crucial thing is crushing, reducing devaluation. Call it what you want, inflation, which is in the Czech Republic, because we're talking about pensioners and we have two consumer baskets. One consumer basket concerns all the population and the other consumer basket concerns pensioners. Those baskets are slightly different. And I said it here yesterday that with the elderly, it's mainly housing, energy, food, clothing, the others are suppressed, it's minimal. If we know the very solidarity of Czech pensioners, those grandmothers and grandfathers are always trying to save some crown, to contribute to their children or grandchildren so that they can get better, and so do they. [[18.20 hours]] When we talk about this formula that valorizes individual pensions, one more thing needs to be realized. That valorization won't cover the entire inflation that was, because the formula is always delayed by at least six months or a year, depending on the level of inflation. This means that there is some inflation rate going on until the first half of the year, and I don't know it now, because it was 6% in the first month, and it will run until that month of June, so I can't fully assess it, but in any case, in the context of inflation and the shopping basket, the standard of living doesn't go up to those pensioners, which, of course, I'm sorry. I would like the standard of living to rise to all citizens of the Czech Republic, and here we will not distinguish pensioners, families with children, working people and so on. At this point, we can wonder how we can control this inflation. President Babiš, by means of Madam President, said that all the way down here. The full basis is the energy in the shortest possible time. It's not going to solve all of inflation, but half of that inflation is going to fall, and it's really going to be energy, because it needs to be realized where all this energy is being written. But I'm not here for a lecture at college to start with some of the goods, and how it works and how the energy goes into it. But it's probably clear to everyone that the unprecedented increase in the price of electricity is the driving force behind the inflation that's here. Then the groceries joined us. And we can talk here, I don't know, some of my previous speakers here have named the outrageous margins of department stores, but we would have to involve the authorities that would have to more or less examine the item by item, because I can't say it from this point and I wouldn't want to offend somebody, because some commodities, some sales commodities can actually have that cost item much higher than others, and then say that the chains are pulling on it, that's not fair. That's not fair, because then we could look at the manufacturer, and even there could be some disproportionate profit. When we're talking about how we might have been able to cut back and get the money into the state budget, it was a so-called windfall tax. I was performing here with a rather long performance, and I drew attention to Margaret Thatcherová's solution during the oil crisis that she wanted to introduce, too, and in the end, her deal with oil producers was made, and they gave her the money. And the offer was here. The offer was here, I don't know it in the absolute number. I'm saying she was here, maybe it was good to use her, because I think it was a mistake. And I know that Mr Skopeček over there, through Madam President, nods because I heard him on TV, he said it exactly the same way and we were together, and it was such an interesting speech that we agreed at about 97 percent. This is not a very good business card for two Members who are from different camps, or it is an excellent business card about who taught us economics, Mr Member. Pretty much. So I think it's very important and that the elderly need to be helped. That the sum of CZK 760 will be absolutely inadequate, because she will transfer some of those pensioners to those employment offices and touch those social benefits. I can't quantify it, that's a big problem, because if we had RIA here and we could look at when they're falling there and what curve they're going to fall into that rescue system, we'd find that maybe some billions are going to flow from other sources to those pensioners and eventually we're not going to talk about the 30 and 5.5 billion, but completely different amounts. That might be the task for the social workers and the people who work with it. I'm looking at it a little bit from a number position, but that doesn't mean I don't know seniors and we don't have moms and dads and it kind of works. Now, to the point of the amendments. The amendments are justified in those House documents, because it is very similar to what my colleagues have been reading here. Then I will refer you only to the justification in writing and apply to the following amendments which are deposited in the system: It is a House document 2270, 2272, 2273, 2274. Furthermore, it will be House documents 2192, 2193, 2194, 2195. That's all. These documents indicate various amounts of the increase to the 400 elementary crowns, as my previous speakers read. I thank you for your patience and thank you very much for allowing me to speak a little differently than I do in defending these House amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u216	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And before I give the floor to President Babiš with priority rights, we have one de facto - Vice-President Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u217	Thank you very much. I have been mentioned in two previous contributions to the two previous speakers, so I would like to respond to both of their contributions. First to my colleague Nacher, through Mr President. It's just a motto. He mentioned it here, and it was said not only from him, but from a number of his colleagues, that 19 billion crowns is actually such a crumb in the state budget, and why are we here, like everyone else, trying out for that little 19 billion? So what I'd like to say is that this is the worst possible approach to public finances, this large-scale approach, that there's 10 billion, that there's 20 billion, and that's exactly the beginning of the reasoning that leads to hundreds of billions of deficits and hundreds of billions of debt at the end. If there's 20 billion, colleagues, a crumb, then give us more of those crumbs and we'll have the public finances settled very quickly, if that's how you think it's gonna be. The second point is on the salaries of constitutional officials. My colleague Nacher here said if there was a vending machine. But he is a vending machine. Our salaries depend on the vending machine. There has been a long discussion about the fact that, as Members, we do not want to vote on our salaries. When the vending machine happened, the vending machine froze again. When it thaws, we're supposed to decide it ourselves here in the Chamber of Deputies. So it's from wall to wall, and the argument is always the opposite of how it is now. We had a vending machine, we had a vending machine, it was frozen and wages were rising. But we can go back to making our own decisions about salary. And the inflation. You said our arguments were weak. I remember your arguments at the beginning of inflation when you said, "Don't worry about it at all, it's temporary inflation, it disappears quickly, no other central banks are raising interest rates, only the Czech National Bank. Turns out the other central banks joined. The Czech National Bank must be commended for being the first and at least starting to slow inflation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Peštová will do another de facto, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u219	I would like to respond to the Member or Vice-President Skopeček. Vice-President, that's exactly what we're talking about here. Yeah, maybe they said some 19 billion, or so you say, 19 billion, that would be an increase for you. You have made this economic damage that we have doubts about whether it is economic damage or not. But we're still looking at the fact that the proposal, the amendment to the law, went in a non-standard way. And that's the impact study, those are the solutions that would be in the impact study, in the RIA. Because you, in your nature, gave us some value, and you gave it the maximum. You're saying that the damage will be caused to 600 billion over the course of ten years. But that's what you say. But since the impact study isn't here, there's not the RIA that we'd sit on and look at the alternative solution that would have a minimum, maximum, there would be some cross-section of the values to know what it would do or wouldn't do. Unfortunately, like, these are your fast, fast, I don't know, quick-leavers, or, as I would say, your fast laws, which you put in the interreort for two days, you've got it down. I'm saying it doesn't have the essentials to do it, and I don't know in my nature. Maybe I'll ask the minister. If it has gone through the ordinary legislative process, even for a short period of time, it has passed through the Government's Legislative Council, I want to know what position has RIA taken on this? I would be quite interested, because when we passed the laws and went through the Government Legislative Council with RIA, I must say that Professor Jílková was not with this committee. It really wasn't easy going through the RIA committee. Those are the things and the things that aren't there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u220	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Nacher, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u221	Well, thank you. That's a little masochism already. But he obviously didn't listen to Mr. Skopeček, so he needs to look at the log. I certainly didn't say 19 billion was a crumb. I didn't say that. If I said the word crumb, let's see if it's a crumb. I didn't say that. I said 19 billion in relation to the fact that there is a four-day continuous meeting day - night, I find it disproportionate. That's what I said, and that's what I stand for. [[18.30 hours]] Because if you hadn't canceled the EET, if you were dealing with these things in some other way, you had savings somewhere else, like what you promised in relation to the number of employees in the public sphere, for example, even though I know it's a long-term thing, you'll just find those 19 billion there. You will. So not that it is a crumb, but that it does not correspond to the length of the negotiations, the abuse of the state of legislative emergency and the various bending of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I said. If it was 200 billion, that would be different. As far as inflation is concerned, my colleague Skopeček said that we said not to be dealt with. Nobody said that. Historically, no. We are, for example, I specifically did not agree with the CNB's extreme growth in interest rates. But I didn't say the government shouldn't deal with it, because the previous government, for example, put them at zero in November and December 2021, thereby reducing the inflation. So you had those options, too. On the contrary, we said that the government should do something. So it's the exact opposite. There, a colleague of Skopeček joined the Czech National Bank and the Government, and then this mishmaš came from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u222	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Ožanová, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Vice-President Skopeček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u223	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen... Madam President, I can't hear myself, I confess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u224	I get that. I ask colleagues and colleagues to move negotiations and interviews into the foyer. [[Ms. Ožanová: Thank you.]] Just hold on a second. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u225	I was intrigued by Vice-President Skopeček, by your means, Madam Vice-President, of the Grand Duchy of Conduct. You know, I see him in something else. I see it in increasing the number of ministers, in increasing the number of people working at the Office of the Government by 74 persons, in increasing the number of deputy ministers, in recompetitive all the leading positions at the administrative offices. And we don't just mean the ministries, but also other authorities, the Nuclear Safety Authority, the Punctual Authority, the cadastral authorities. That's where all the money is wasted. And if we don't save money on that kind of thing, then the money really won't do any good. And on the contrary, I see this large-scale behavior in a five-wheeler right here on these personal expenses. So I just wanted to add so much to that, the word "velkopan behavior."
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u226	Thank you. Now Vice-President Skopeček with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u227	I won't hold it up. However, I did not speak during the whole discussion, only with factual remarks. I'm not gonna jump in here trying to create a political duel. I want to answer from a technical point of view to the previous speakers - a colleague of Nacher and a colleague of Kubíček. I've just heard your argument here that 19 billion is not enough, that it's only 1% of the gross domestic... or 1% of the expenditure of the state budget. It was ridiculed. I just think that the right farmer is supposed to turn off the lights in public finance management for light officials and that he's supposed to save every crown. I think that this kind of underestimating tens of billions makes those tens hundreds of billions of state debt. As far as the Czech National Bank is concerned, I responded to Mr Nacher's argument, President Schillerová, President Babiš, who were simply very critical of the Czech National Bank and its policy of raising interest rates. I commended the Czech National Bank for that. And I disagree from the start with your argument that it was temporary inflation, imported inflation, that it was caused only by the breakdown of the supplier-customer chains. That was your argument, which I remember very well. X-times we've met on this in all kinds of TV discussions. And it turns out that this is simply not true, that inflation is a much wider phenomenon, that it is a phenomenon of this time, that it is related to cod injections into the public finance economy, that it is related to how globalization is happening, how world trade decreases in world gross domestic product, it is related to green policy, how we increase the cost of producing anything. It's just a wider phenomenon. And you were terribly wrong when you said it was temporary inflation that would disappear, and the Czech National Bank might not do anything. You were totally wrong. That is why I responded that criticizing us for the weakness of the arguments against inflation is a little hypocritical on your part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u228	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Peštová will now make a point of fact, and Vice-President Havlíček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u229	Thank you for the floor. Ambassador Skopečka, I didn't mean to provoke you in any way. I was just telling you the arguments are just missing. Yeah, okay. You responded to them, you didn't answer me. In any case, it was 1 % of the costs, sorry, 1 percent of the expenses, that was the words of Minister Stanjura, he said it on TV. When I was watching, when the press asked him and they said 20 billion, he said it wasn't a problem to find 20 billion, that it was less than 1% of all expenses, total expenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u230	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Havlíček and Minister Zbyněk Stanjura will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u231	Thank you. I must respond to my honored colleague, Vice-President Skopeček. You basically said all the possible causes of inflation, and let's not go there right now, but remember, you started this game. You started it in August or September 2021, when you called inflation, which was in all of Europe at the time, in the Czech Republic as Babišův's inflation. You pinned it on us. With the exact same rhetoric and exaggeration, we could say today that the famous Fialův's expensive and overpriced butt is your fault. It's not like that. Of course, it is the fault of a number of other factors. But we cannot, Mr Vice-President, and you are a skilled economist, somehow passing on the fact that demand inflation, which was clearly in the first weeks and months, when even central banks everywhere underestimated the situation and left the rate at zero for quite a long time, has actually fueled the fact that speculators started investing, so it started tilting people in high energies to cost inflation sometime in the fall. And at that time, governments, too, began to play a much bigger role, which means, to a large extent, it was under the control of fiscal policy. And here we failed, because here we did nothing about the energy, as a result of which the inflation went away. So, while inflation was somewhere on the European Union's average at the end of 2021, today we are 80 percent higher. And we can, of course, discuss what all instruments could or could not be used. But the fact that inflation was underestimated by the government is a clear fact. And it must be said that, among other things, this week at the big conference, President Klaus also argued that he was clearly blaming the current government for not controlling inflation. So much for inflation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u232	Thank you. I'm just gonna ask if the Minister's downloading his facts? Yes. Thank you. Mr. President Andrej Babiš will now perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here again. I had lunch with Hungarian President Katalin Novák, who had lunch today with President Klaus and Zeman and also President Pavel. So hopefully the V4 and Hungary relations are getting better. First, I wanted to ask CNN Prima News to clarify the headline, because Mr. Kalousek said that Mr. Fiala is the same populist as Babiš. I'm applying. If Mr Fiala were a populist, that would be 19 billion -- and it is 0.85% of budget expenditure 2023 -- it doesn't fit. But the headline is whether I'm three times dumber, and he's smarter in the text. That's how they should do it before Mrs. Pekarová Adamová, the media always do the headlines, and then you don't know what's in it. [[18.40 hours]] I'd be very happy to continue with the speeches here. This is psycho, Mr. Michálek, diagnosis of anti-babish, holding something in his hand. [[Member Michalek points towards the speaker a sheet with a graph.]] Sure. We can, Mr. Michálek, you're still so young, you should have worked hard first. [[President: Please address your colleagues through the President.]] You know, I went into politics when I've done something in my life. And all you do here is prove Lex Babiš 1 and Lex Babiš 2. But I wish you luck. And it's a good thing you didn't live under a totalitarian regime, because that would be 50s like stitches. So I have a bunch of materials here, and I'd be happy to introduce you to them. I would first respond to Mr Skopeček because he is an economist, and of course I can agree that this inflation is related to green madness. Oh, please don't talk about covid, because it's not about covid. And I've already shown here x-fold that population savings... [[Member Michalek is still standing in front of the speaker's desk.]] Why don't you go pee on the French embassy like last time? [[Laughs in the hall.]] That was better, wasn't it? When you're standing here? [[President: Mr President, please address your colleague through the President.]] I don't want to call him 'cause there's gonna be a lawsuit again. Better. So I would like to say to Mr Skopečka, whom I respect, his opinions, he is an economist, he is a pity that he is not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u234	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. Through!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u235	I'm sorry. I don't come here very often, so I don't know how yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u236	So please learn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u237	But I've learned to click. So, through Madam President. [[Thank you.]] Yes. I've known Mr. Skopeček a long time. I think he was working with President Klaus. But you're wrong about the covid. I don't know, it's pretty obvious that if we gave people money and at the same time the savings went up by 900 billion, it's logical that they didn't take the money and go there to fight for some roll. Even bakers sell chains for a crown of seventy and people buy them for three crowns. And it's still the same price. So that's not true. I don't agree with you. Inflation, yes, definitely started with energy. First, Germany felt that Japan's tsunami was coming, so they closed the core and sold coal for a mouthful. And that was the first moment of the problem. And then the emission allowances came in. And I'm sure you'll agree that emission allowances are a problem. The Prime Minister criticized me for that. I proposed a ceiling of 30 euros in September 2021. Of course, that's where it's going, it's speculation. The MiFID directive was to be repealed. I wrote to all the prime ministers and presidents of Europe, I performed, Prime Minister Fiala criticized me, but he didn't do anything for it. So, of course, the emission allowance price is entering the electricity price of the coal producers. That's logical. And how do we fight it? So I believe that this is external inflation. And if anyone was talking about temporary inflation, it was Governor Rusnok who was here to lecture us on how high rates beat inflation. He didn't beat anything. Nothing. The entire measure of the Czech National Bank in terms of high interest only fell on young families, only destroyed the mortgage market. And, of course, it relents to the fact that young families can't afford to buy an apartment. Apartments are also expensive because commercial banks insist on paying 20% of the apartment in cash. Of course, such a family doesn't cope when it has 55,000 income, for example, or even more. So with the inflation, we can go out for a beer and talk about it. You keep saying that nonsense about us causing inflation. It's nonsense. Savings have gone up. We've hit inflation by reducing VAT from 21 percent to 0. You didn't want it. The Minister of Finance, I understand him, he's fine with it. So there's hundreds of billions of cash. [[Member Michálek is coming to discuss Mrs Purple in front of the speaker's desk.]] And, yes, in terms of spending that budget of 2,235 billion, the amount of 19 billion is... it's not big. She's not funny. I agree with you, 19 billion is definitely a large sum. But what we're talking about here, and for the elderly, it's the 7,000 this year, so it's just ridiculous, this whole theater that we're doing here in front of people. And you say you want to discuss it. But you're not discussing anything. You guys haven't said a word repeatedly about how you can bring down that inflation. ČEZ. No one said anything about it. I understand why. And I don't know what more proof you want. How inflation in France is 7 % or 4.5% in Spain, which has put EUR 45 billion in support of energy prices. I think it's obvious. So Green Deal. I agree with you, but don't talk about covid. We're in the covid...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u238	Mr President, I am very sorry, but I would like to ask my colleagues, or my colleague and the President, if you could continue the interview with the opening. [[Purple]] [[Michálka]] Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u239	So we all know that the inflation... And read the justification of the Czech Statistical Office from January. That's where it's written. That it's about the electricity. And it's all over again. And I keep saying, buy out CEZ, lower it to 1,500 and you've solved it. For everyone. For everyone. For industry, for production, for business, for services, for restaurants, for hotels, for everything. And I turned off the lights at the Treasury Department. I even turned off the lights once that my colleague, Tünde, was on the toilet, screaming. I didn't know he was there. Lights out. I'm saving up. That's how it is for me. We're such a small generation, we're retired. So thank you for the advice, but I've always done it. I did it at a foreign firm, I did it at the Office of the Government, and I'm gonna do it. And I agree with you. Yes. Every crown is good. But unfortunately, this debate here isn't going to do anything, and I'm sorry, but at least for me, it's very educational. I'm learning a lot of new information from my colleagues' speeches here. I've got different analysis here again from the point of view of the position. For example, Dr. Gerloch gave me an analysis here from the point of view of the legislation and other things. So once again, the inflation... The CNB told us what the development would be like. And once again, how do you want to fight the oil cartel or the lip exchange? Why is the price of electricity determined on the basis of the gas price, which, of course, is determined illogically? Someone put it that way. So, of course, ČEZ's shareholders want to sell at the highest prices, which is why part of the production goes on the stock exchange. That's why they're gonna export. And absurdly, they produce cheaply and sell expensively to our citizens and to the entire economy. There. It's the main problem, nobody's talking about it, nobody wants to talk about it. And we're talking about inflation. I don't know, so give me an example of our inflation at home, what it's in. Yeah, right, there's no peppers or no vegetables. Why, we've already said that. There's not enough, so there's inflation. [[18.50 hours]] Of course, inflation is because electricity raises prices for all food producers and others. It goes on and on. I think it's logical that anyone who understands the economy a little bit will understand. I don't agree with you, again, that you're involved in this covid. It's not true. And the debt to GDP at the end of last year is still lower than the former finance minister, who calls your Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Czech Government, a populist, is still telling us. And me, too. Then he should choose. I'd like to see him cut it down, he's got $690 billion in debt here. And I can read to you here the 20 years this gentleman left behind. Especially Mrs. Černochová, when she's always talking about the army, maybe one day we could read it the way it was. How the Palladium came into existence, that barracks we were supposed to cash a billion dollars for, and in the end, we paid a billion dollars to some crook. And the airport of Laina and other things. I mean, we remember it all the way it was, yeah, so it's stuff... And I'm fascinated by the fact that the people who have caused irreversible damage to our country, not our pensioners, haven't done any damage, so they still have the audacity to lecture and criticize someone. I remember Topolánek and Kalousek making a deal and starting a B ODS, they did it at the Aria Hotel, that's around the corner, that's where they agreed. Kalousek will do an ODS B after he wanted to rule with the communists, so then he got kicked out of KDU-ČSL, so he made a deal. And he did it well. He did good, didn't he? TOP 09, ODS B. Worst times in this country, a combination of Topolánek - Kalousek. But I don't want to go back to that. But if there's any interest, I can read it, so it's about three hours. I will return to the fact that our Members could not, they could not perform, so I would follow up with Mr David Pražák's speech here: Notes on the debate on pension valorization. It starts with a state of government desperation. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues, let me also speak in the debate on the reduction of pension valorisation. In my opinion, the government has committed fraud on voters because before the elections, it has declared that it will not touch pensions. When we look at the pre-election program points of the Pirstan coalition, we learn - I quote: we guarantee the legal valorisation of pensions, thanks to which the level of seniors is growing with the economy. The Prime Minister of Fiala said last November in an interview for Lightning that a mechanism is set up to valorize pensions according to the law. And the current situation? In any other situation, the government is talking about the importance of the functioning of the rule of law, and today it is changing something that has already been legally claimed. If one of the defining features of the rule of law is that we obey the laws of law, then the government interprets the principles of the rule of law as appropriate. And we fundamentally refuse to do that. For us, the unchangeableness of the rule of law is essential. The President of the House itself, Pekarová Adamová, in the last parliamentary term, made it clear that the legislative emergency in covid was justified - I quote: for me, the rule of law is not just a word. I guess what happened quite recently doesn't apply today. She probably likes the words to the song "words are just raindrops." Well, let's turn on the wipers, 'cause with the government routine, we're gonna have a solid sprinkler. But they have the deštník versus the costume, which doesn't work either. The previous government was dealing with an unprecedented crisis. We all remember how some of the exponents of today's government coalition beat the then president Radek Vondráček from declaring a state of legislative emergency. In the situation of the then covid crisis, the lives of our citizens were at stake. Today we are witnessing a complete communication fiasco of the government. I wouldn't be afraid to call him a state of government despair, says David Pražák. The very fact that the government wants to reduce valorization in a state of legislative emergency only shows the full naked despair and fear it has of negotiating. She is well aware that she is going against what she guaranteed the voters before the elections. The arrogance of how the government wants to discuss the change in pensions, if you want to mass-stealing of pensioners in broad daylight, in quotation marks, illustrates the views of current members of the coalition in the past period of the opposition. I would also like to mention our Senate's proposal for a reduction in the House's valorisation. Yesterday I listened to Senator Canov, as well as Vice-President of the ÚPV, who answered the questions of the Radiožurnále clearly. Quote, says Mr. Pražák: Is it true that you will not raise your hand for this law? Senator's answer: Done. I see there quite clearly and clearly two unconstitutionalities. I have a problem with the state of legislative emergency and retroactivity. Is it really such a problem that the proposal came after the end of January? - Absolutely essential, because as a senator, I promise at the institute that I will keep it, and here I would knowingly violate it. I really believe that the two unconstitutionalities are quite clear and quite unambiguous. - You don't consider 20 billion in this year's budget and tens of billions of budgets to be significant economic damage? - Well, Mr. Jurečka, after I criticized him, and I'm convinced that his information, that the proposal saves 310 billion, is nonsense, so he put two lines on Twitter. That's how everyone draws these lines. So blow it out, show revenue, expenses, social security contributions, show taxes all, show the whole budget, outlook. No one can do that! Because it's not possible. And the Treasury, I repeat, has a view only until 2025. - So the senator's answer, if he doesn't consider it significant economic damage. - No, I don't. It's about 1% of the budget, yes, exactly 0.85. Unfortunately, we now have a budget deficit of hundreds of billions repeatedly. In this respect, I certainly do not consider this to be significant economic damage. It's no shame to her. I don't know how anyone could have thought of our pensioners causing economic damage by building our entire country. That's incredible insolence! On the contrary, it's a drop in the sea, says the senator. But the point is, it must be an extraordinary, unexpected situation. And that's what everyone expected. Yeah, well, it's a mandatorial expense under a law that's been going on for decades. You can't call it an emergency, and you can't call it an emergency, in conjunction with the damage. It is even a question of whether pension rights can be called a pity word at all, says the senator. Finally. - How do you explain that the government didn't bring it up sooner? Do you feel like she's neglected? - Senator Canov of STAN: The government has overslept for the second time. In the Liberec Region, we were very critical of the government's reaction to the energy crisis. Then the government came to its senses and started to deal with it. And now something similar has happened. They just slept there and didn't notice that inflation was rising every month. But they didn't put an extraordinary valorisation in the budget for 2023, as far as I know, not a penny, and so on. I suggest you play and listen to the interview, says Mr. Pražák. [[19.00 hours]] To set an example outside of politics, renowned constitutional lawyers also draw attention to discussing the change in pensions in the state of legislative emergency. The head of the Department of Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of Charles University, Professor Marek Antoš, points out that if the government enforces a change of pension in a state of legislative emergency, it seems to him very likely that he will come across the Constitutional Court, but that, according to him, can bring further damage, repayment and other similar circumstances. Therefore, following this path seems to me to be gambling for various reasons, supplemented by Professor Marek Antoš. In his view, the government did not take steps to prevent legislative distress. The fact that he does nothing and reacts only in a situation when there is a need to react quickly does not entitle us to use this extraordinary device. Exceptional circumstances are not fulfilled, the head of the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law of Charles University is concluded by Professor Marek Antoš. According to one of the legal opinions, pensioners were entitled to pension growth from June to the original amount by the very fact of inflation growth, resulting in an increase in pensions. According to the law, pensions are increased exceptionally due to inflation when the consumer price index increase exceeded 5% over the reference period. The merit percentage of pensions is rising. It's growing by as many percent as it's reached the price increase. According to Jurečka prepared and government-tapped novels should have increased pensions of two folders. The first is to increase pensions of CZK 400, the same amount to all, and then to increase even further above this amount of 2,3%. Instead of 34.4 billion, this year it is worth 15.4 billion extra crowns. Yes, and that's the 19 that Minister Stanjura has, and it's not a problem. Except for unknown reasons, this government, based on completely nonsensical analyses, because these analyses are rescinding by 2025 and showing hundreds of billions of additional revenues due to inflation in public budgets, and there is nothing for years to come. It's just been predicted, but no one told the petitioners that they should take the blindfolds off, otherwise there's gonna be trouble. Finally, I would like to read a letter from the Union of Health and Social Welfare Workers, the basic organization Liberec. Dear Member, they're writing to Mr. Pražák. I am writing to you in connection with the new pension measures planned by the Czech Government. The proposed measures are totally unacceptable to us, honest workers. It is not possible for people who spend their entire lives contributing to the social security system to receive a lower pension at a time when everything is getting more expensive and facing excessive inflation, and they will still have to wait for it until 68 years. After all, this is the longest in the EU, according to Mrs Kyrianová, Chairman of the Regional Council of the Liberec Region of the OSZSP. This is where I read it. But I think Mr. Jurečka said it was for the next government, but he was talking about 68 years, I don't know why, he's got the prognosis, his two lines. - Well, that's the headlines, so I don't know. After all, this is the longest from all over the EU. In addition, employees in the Czech Republic work longer than employees in most EU countries. Dear Member, these steps by the Government of the Czech Republic fundamentally threaten the decent lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger. There is a need to seek other solutions to ensure the sustainability of the pension system than merely reduce the amount of pensions, increase the retirement age. This may, for example, be an improvement in conditions for people who work in physically demanding professions. The government should focus on finding other sources of funding for the pension system that will not come out of employees' pockets. I therefore ask you not to support these steps of the Government in the legislative process. magistra Alena Kyrianová, Chairman of the Regional Council of the Liberec Region of the OSZSP. So much for Mr. Pražák. My colleague Kubík could not get off, so he wanted to say following: We are dealing with a reduced hearing in a state of legislative emergency and I would like to start by saying that I do not agree with him. You're taking away the opportunity to speak, present our views, our attitudes. I'm not a relationship person, and I don't often go to the speaker's desk. So I, as Jan Kubík, do not feel taken from the opportunity, but I feel that you are robbing citizens, our voters, who are entitled to their representation in the Chamber of Deputies, have the right to hear their voice, their fears, their concern, because you are making them feel better. Remember that every time you meet an old man. In order for this right to be fulfilled, it is necessary that we, as their representatives in the Chamber of Deputies, can speak up and fight for them. In the course of this meeting, you are treading and twisting the Rules of Procedure like no one before you. It's naive to think it'll do anything good. The state of legislative emergency, the provisions of Section 99 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, may be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. It almost seems to me that this very meeting is a fundamental threat to the fundamental rights of citizens. However, it certainly does not seem to me that the payment of well-deserved and legally approved pensions could result in economic damage. The fact that you don't betray a senior who's been pulling this whole system for decades, which we're now profiting from, who's prepaid the pension and who's done it honestly, is that economic damage? Sorry, not me, says Mr. Kubík. That by legally valorizing, you will help to combat astronomical inflation for disabled pensioners who often have increased cost of life and reduced employment opportunities, do you consider that economic damage? Oh, my God, who are you? Says Mr. Kubík. This isn't about the opposition, fellow Members, this isn't about us sitting here, this is about citizens. You're stepping on their rights this week. The worst part is that you, the government coalition, have a comfortable majority to enforce this proposal whenever you want. So you could have suggested it in peace in the autumn or January and completely legitimately and fairly discussed it here. There wouldn't be a single reason to push this retirement robbery by force and bending all the rules in force. Why didn't you? Because you were afraid that Andrej Babiš would win the presidential election. Well, I don't think so, but I guess the reason was there, and you would have a loud supporter of normal people at the castle. You're talking about saving up. I am very fond of this statement, which was posted on Facebook by Michal Doktor, formerly an ODS MP. Among other things, he writes this - and I quote: Once, many years ago, I predicted what would happen if the government coalition got caught up, when instead of sweeping the barn with consistent and smart savings, it would fill the cash register with tax increases. The year was 2012. Maybe I've got blinders. Maybe it's because I live in a county where we pay off our predecessors' debts and don't make new ones. Maybe it's because I'm head of the supervisory board of South Bohemia Region companies, where we generate profits where others have a deep loss. I simply believe from the bottom of my mind that where there is no proof of trying to save the last crown, the government has no right to reach into the gutters of others. I will repeat this for sure, so that everyone will note the bearing thought: Michal Doktor, once an ODS MP, says that where there is no proof of trying to save the last crown, the government has no right to reach into the gutters of others. It is true that this government does not spare and does not want to save, because the five-calice has so many political colleagues that it has to place them somewhere. Was the government trying to save money on her first? I have registered the challenge of Minister Jurečka, says Mr. Pražák - not Pražák, Kubík, I apologize. I have registered the challenge of Minister Jurečka that the pensioners are supposed to be solidarity. But how do you explain it to them when they see the ineffectiveness of your government? How do you explain that to them when we've raised our salaries since New Year's Eve? Yes, my proposal here is to freeze salaries for five years by 2026. How do you explain when we get the most expensive fighters we can? And you say we can afford it. How do you explain that you take money from pensioners, but the Ministry of Defence, which has record budgets, so buys secretly without tenders, fills high posts out of hand, sits on it a deputy in conflict of interest, which is published in the media articles, how does he meet with suppliers around hotels? Says Mr. Kubík. How can you ask this most vulnerable group of citizens to give up what they're entitled to when they read this every day in the paper? [[19.10 hours]] I was standing at the cashier's shop the other day, Mr. Kubík says, and an older man shopped in front of me. He didn't have a lot of groceries. All around, however, one of the peppers in the bag was impressed. The cashier may have taken it five times and considered it, then looked at the older gentleman and in disbelief asked him if it was possible for that one 20-gram pepper to really cost 28 crowns. Well, it's possible. We have record inflation. Well, we don't have our own vegetables, because after the revolution, the ODS told us we'd deliver everything. She said the government wasn't counting on her, and that's why we don't have enough money to keep her legal valorized. With inflation. Nonsense, of course. But if the government wasn't counting on her with all the experts she has, do you think her colleagues are counting on her? You say we didn't count on it, so we'll give you less. But who are they supposed to give less to people who can't usually make extra money or add extra shifts to make a living? Already many seniors buy only in action and ideally in the category "help us not waste". Hell. Dear colleagues, I consider the reduction in June's valorisation to be a crime and I consider the way in which it is dealt with unfairly, and I believe that the Constitutional Court will also confirm its lawlessness. Thank you for your attention, says the Member for the ANO movement Jiří Kubík. Mr Sadovský also did not have the opportunity to express himself, so he says to us: Let me draw attention to one fact. We have the Constitutional Court's decision on the substance of the abuse of the legislative emergency of 2011, but on that later. In recent years, we have seen an increase in health care costs, housing and basic living needs, which can have fatal consequences for pensioners on their financial situation. We need to focus on solutions, not just cuts. If we have a war to sponsor, we have to have a pension. It is important that, as a society, we take care of our older citizens and enable them to live a dignified life even at an advanced age. What the government is proposing is unacceptable and inconvenient. You've declared a state of legislative emergency. And what did the Constitutional Court say at an identical ODS event in the past? For example, in 2011, I quote - Mr Sadovský quotes: The Constitutional Court has taken the view of the justification for declaring the state of legislative emergency in which the contested bill has been discussed. Decision No 7 of the Chamber of Deputies of 29 October 2010 and Government Resolution No 759 of 26. 10. 2010. They justify the announcement of a state of legislative emergency by briefly threatening significant economic damage. A further justification for declaring a state of legislative emergency can be drawn from Prime Minister NečasPetr statement at the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 27. 10 2010 and at its meeting on 2. 11. 2010 which are further divorced by the Prime Minister's recapitulated statement of 27 January 2011. It follows from these statements that the reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency was the necessity to adopt all the government bills in question by the end of the year, because the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2011 was based on the fact that these laws will take effect on 1 January 2011. The threat of significant economic damage to the State should therefore consist in the fact that the state budget would be based on a non-existent legal situation, resulting in a deepening of the public deficit. This would also have an impact on the assessment of the credibility of the Czech Republic in financial markets, which would have been reflected in the reduction in the rating and the increase in the debt service. The exceptional circumstance was seen with regard to alleged obstruction by Parliament's opposition, which, in a situation where it was not possible to discuss all the proposals of government law in question by a normal procedure in order to take effect by the end of the year at the latest, did not allow their accelerated discussion at first reading, § 90 para. 2 JŘPS or, if the time limit for their discussion in the relevant committees is reduced to 15 days, § 91 para. 2 JRPS. Similarly, those reasons were formulated by the Prime Minister at the oral hearing held on 8. 2. 2011, see above, where he was heard as a witness. It follows from his statement that it was in this obstruction, in quotation marks, that Parliament's opposition saw the government's main reason for having to withdraw the original bills and the adoption of the resolutions proposing their renegotiation in a state of legislative emergency in a shortened negotiation. In particular, the Constitutional Court dealt with the question of whether the above-defined obstruction of opposition Members can be regarded as an exceptional circumstance. In accordance with Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty) and in particular Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter The application of this objection precludes such a way of discussing the bill. A similar objection may be made by the same entities pursuant to § 91 (1) of the EC Treaty. 2 JŘPS has also been applied in relation to the proposal in order to shorten the 60-day time limit for the examination of the draft law in the designated committee pursuant to paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Both provisions are an expression of the protection of the rights of a parliamentary opposition minority, in this case the protection against major restrictions on the structure and duration of the legislative procedure, since the legislation allows such a reduction only if a significant majority of Members exceeding 3/4 of their total number agree. If objections were raised in the examination of the contested law, which were merely intended to comply with the proper legislative procedure in the examination of the draft law, no element of extraordinaryness can be seen in the Constitutional Court's view in such a parliamentary opposition procedure. This was a use of the law conferred by the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on a qualified minority of Members to protect its rights. This opposition procedure cannot be regarded as an exceptional circumstance even in the context that the 2011 draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic, which the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies at the same time as the original draft laws, envisaged the adoption of all the government bills at the latest by the end of 2010. In this context, the Constitutional Court was based on the specifics of the State Budget Act in terms of its content and its function within the constitutional and political system. The State Budget Act contains a summary of the expected revenue and estimated expenditure of the State budget for the financial year. From the content point of view, it is only a law in the formal sense, cf. Judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-482/99 France v Commission, ECLI:EU:C:2014:288, paragraph 13. 9. 2009, filename Pl. ÚS 27/09, N 199/54. Sb. NU 445 and 318/2009 Coll., as its content cannot be the determination of rights and obligations. [[19.20 hours]] Despite this, this law is of fundamental political importance, since it primarily establishes the structure of the state budget expenditure in a binding way, thus allowing the government to implement its political priorities through the redistribution of revenue from the state budget. - Yes. That means not giving people money. This is the political priority of this government. - In this regard, however, the discretion of the Government and the Chamber of Deputies is not unlimited either, as, when determining the amount and structure of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, it must be based on the applicable legislation which provides for rights and obligations affecting the state budget in the form ofmandatory expenditure. As a general rule, the enforcement of government priorities in the State Budget Act is accompanied by the necessary amendment of specific laws to enable the required changes to be made to the revenue or expenditure side of the state budget. If the Government justifies the need for the adoption of a draft contested law in abridged negotiation by the negative consequences resulting from the fact that its draft State Budget Act envisages such amendments, such an argument cannot be considered acceptable from the point of view of legal reasons for declaring a state of legislative emergency. It is the responsibility of each government to base the draft law on the state budget on the applicable legislation and, if it considers it appropriate to make amendments to it, to implement its authorisation in a timely manner to make the corresponding bill through which it would have made the required changes, to compare the above observations of certain coalition Members. Nor is there an emergency situation where, in the light of certain political contexts, the Act on the State Budget itself would not have been adopted before the first day of the financial year. In such a case, until adoption, the management of the State would be governed by the rules of the budgetary commission within the meaning of Section 9 of Law No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and amending certain related laws, budgetary rules, as amended. Even in these cases, this is therefore a regular process of adopting the state budget and a standard way of promoting the government's budgetary policy through relevant legislative changes. Therefore, the disagreement of the parliamentary opposition with the shortening of the procedure does not form an element of extraordinaryness in the context of the government's understandable interest in the adoption of the contested law before the beginning of the financial year. If the Constitutional Court, in the case considered by the Government, considers that the reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency is constitutionally and probable, it could have unfortunate consequences in the future, where it could practically be substantially limited at any time, or even exclude parliamentary debate, in order to prevent the negotiation of draft laws in a proper legislative procedure, with reference only to the fact that it owns a draft law on the State Budget for the next year foresaw the adoption of these legal standards and is bound to their existence. Almost every bill is reflected in the revenue or expenditure of the state budget, so that such a procedure would make it impossible for the parliamentary opposition to comment on draft laws and would make it entirely dependent on the will of the parliamentary majority. - And that's what's happening. The above conclusions cannot be interpreted by the fact that the Constitutional Court in any way reduces or relativizes the legitimate interest of the Government in the credibility of the Czech Republic in financial markets, reflected in favourable ratings. On the contrary, it is aware of the importance of these facts for the state of public finances as well as the possibility of the Czech Republic promoting its interests and interests of its citizens. However, that interest, which has long been reflected in the budgetary and economic policy of individual governments, does not relieve the public authorities of the obligation to proceed on the basis of the law within its limits, Article 2 (1) (a) 3 Constitution of the Czech Republic. Questions relating to the reduction or increase in the revenue and expenditure of public budgets, the amount of taxes and levies, as well as social benefits or claims from the State budget are not and are usually not subject to a social consensus. The search for ways and tools for their solutions is always conditional on the political-ide direction of the government, or the parliamentary majority. The role of the Constitutional Court is not to assess the contested laws by measuring their effectiveness and thus intervene in political competition. The Constitutional Court is called upon to provide protection to the political competition of democratic forces, as well as to the other constitutional principles set out above, which relate to the procedure laid down for the adoption of draft laws. The Constitutional Court cannot resign its function of protection of constitutionality solely because of general and hypothetical risk, unfounded by any specific data, that its finding issued in the procedure for the control of standards could have a negative impact on the evaluation of the Czech Republic by credit rating agencies, or that it will cause a negative reaction from financial markets. The Constitutional Court is aware that in the cited finding sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 12/10 accepted the adoption of Act No. 418/2009 Coll., amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., on salaries and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of state authority and of certain state authorities and judges and Members of the European Parliament, as amended, and Act No. 201/1997 Coll., on the salary and other requirements of prosecutors and on the amendment and addition of Act No. 143/1992 Coll., on the salary and remuneration of a work emergency in budgetary and in certain other organisations and bodies, as amended, in a state of legislative emergency, although its subject matter, which was a reduction in the salaries of public officials, was also aimed at reducing the expenditure of the state budget. However, this case was significantly different from the present case. Law No 418/2009 Sb. was together with Act No. 362/2009 Coll., amending certain laws in connection with the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2010, adopted in exceptional political circumstances - the abolition of early elections quoted by sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 27/09 - and under the threat of a major and unplanned increase in public finance deficit as a result of the economic crisis, where the urgency of the situation and the need for rapid measures existed, in the light of the ongoing economic crisis, a consensus across the political spectrum, which the Constitutional Court implicitly admitted to relevance, cf. find sp. stamp. Pl. ÚS 12/10, paragraph 18. After all, the conclusion on the exceptional circumstances justifying the announcement of a state of legislative emergency in the case under consideration also calls into question the fact that, as confirmed by the Prime Minister in his interrogation, the Government's intentions contained in all four government drafts of laws negotiated in the short-term negotiations were already well known in the long run. In this context, it can be pointed out that the submission of the original government bill took place first on 4 October 2010, with the first reading of the law held until 26 October 2010. The explanatory memorandum to the bill or to the relevant debate at the 7th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies held on 26 October 2010 does not imply that the Government would justify the adoption of the proposed bill by the existence of exceptional circumstances. On the contrary, the petitioner of this law and representatives of the government majority was repeatedly stressed only by the concern that the legislative process concerning all government bills, which were subsequently discussed in a state of legislative emergency, would not be completed by the end of 2010. On the basis of the above, the Constitutional Court also concluded that the only reason for the consideration and approval of the contested law by the Chamber of Deputies in a state of legislative emergency in the short term was to threaten its timely adoption in order to take effect by the end of 2010, which was prevented by the opposition procedure pursuant to § 90 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of CRR 2 JRPS. However, the reason found cannot be regarded as a legitimate and constitutionally viable reason for declaring a state of legislative emergency pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1). 1 JRPS. [[19.30 hours]] Therefore, the Constitutional Court concluded that, in the case at hand, all the decisions of the Chamber of Deputies' bodies taken on a proposal from the Government, as well as the decision on the duration of the legislative emergency and the duration of the conditions for the hearing of the contested law in the short hearing when the first reading was launched within the meaning of Section 99 (1) of the Act. 6 JŘPS, see Resolution No. 12 8. of the 8 meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, vote number seven, was made contrary to the above explained aspects characterising the constitutional democratic principle. Therefore, it was already possible to conclude the constitutional review at this stage by stating that in the process of the adoption of the contested law, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 Constitution of the Czech Republic and Art. 22 The Charter, all the more so in a situation where the objections to the content of the Act have not been applied mutatis mutandis. In this situation, it was not necessary to deal with further objections to the process, which was already under the conditions of legislative emergency and in the accelerated negotiations, in particular the competence of the Senate as a result of the composition in which it voted on the contested law did not need to be examined. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Court considers it necessary to add only as obiter dictum that the defects of the subsequent trial in the Chamber of Deputies were both due to the fact that the deadline for calling an extraordinary meeting was not respected when the draft law submitted by the Government for discussion in the regime of legislative emergency and in the accelerated negotiations was delivered to Members in such a time pressure that not only opposition, but also government Members were not really able to check even the identity of the draft with the previous draft government bill, let alone get to know its contents in detail, and assess its possible implications. That this is not a mere hypothesis can also be demonstrated by the expression of some coalition Members presented in the media after the adoption of one of the government bills in question in the context of a legislative emergency, see the above-mentioned oral hearing before the Constitutional Court on 22. 2. 2011. Furthermore, democraticity was no doubt reduced by the already limited procedure for adopting the contested law by releasing the general debate in the second reading, despite resolution No. 16 which was adopted by the Committee on Social Policy at its 4th meeting held on 2 November 2010, which recommended that the Chamber of Deputies discuss the bill under appeal in the general debate. The discussion of this matter, as well as the experience of declaring a state of legislative emergency in the past, including weighing the degree of limitation and shortening the rights of the current parliamentary opposition, and, above all, the intervention in democratic principles governing the legislative process, leads the Constitutional Court to serious doubts as to the constitutionality of the current regulation of the Institute of legislative emergency. It would be possible to apply the existing legislation only provided that it is interpreted strictly, constitutionally and responsibly. However, this has often not happened in the present case or in the past. The Constitutional Court considers that the Chamber of Deputies should consider amending its Rules of Procedure in the indicated direction so that constitutional principles laid down above are reflected in the JŘPS. So, friends, Mr Sadovský says what you're doing is unconstitutional. Perhaps that is more than clear. And if the Constitutional Court has this precedent, I can't imagine him making the opposite decision. Well, Dr. Haas here is very clear. He probably already knows the decision. So, yes, the YES movement puts it in the Constitutional Court. And if the Constitutional Court decides impartially, not according to the new totalitarianism, you simply cannot win it. I don't understand why you're pushing it this way. This is unbelievable. And thank you for your attention, says Mr. Petr Sadovský. My colleague Ratiborský Michal couldn't get off either. What's he saying? The state of legislative emergency is an instrument that should not be abused, and its use should be after really thorough consideration and justification. Indeed, we cannot regard the existence of seniors who have paid their pension insurance honestly throughout their lives and who are among the most vulnerable groups in terms of the threat of poverty, because they do not have the possibility of additional income as a threat to significant economic damage. It is wrong to change the process of valorising pensions during its course, even in the shortened procedure. We had relatively enough time to predict inflation and economic developments for this process. This reminds me very much of the abuse of the state of the legislative emergency in an effort to maintain the current pay regulations in 2001 under the Government of Miloš Zeman, so that the government would avoid the budgetary commission because it did not have the means to raise salaries. Still, she knew about the pay raise long ago. In the past, the legislative emergency has been used many times, but apart from exceptions due to sudden and unexpected situations, and laws have been adopted in agreement with both the coalition and the opposition. It was, for example, a law, a government bill amending the legal measures of the Bureau of the Federal Assembly No. 366/1992 Coll., on measures in relation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro. Of the 128 present 127 was for discussion in the shortened regime, for, one abstained and subsequently the law was adopted by all present. Another was the government bill amending and supplementing Act No. 229/ 1991 Coll., on the adaptation of property relations to land and other agricultural assets, as amended, and the Act of the Czech National Council No. 243/1990 Coll., which regulates certain issues related to Act No. 229, on the regulation of property relations with land and other agricultural assets, as amended, which responded to the Constitutional Court's finding concerning the acquisition of immovable property and restitution, and it was necessary to respond quickly. In the vote, the ratio was 121 pro, 36 against. So a comfortable constitutional majority. Another law was adopted by a comfortable majority and responded to the UN resolution, it was a government bill abolishing the legal measure of the Bureau of the Federal Assembly No. 366/1992 Coll., on measures in relation to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia and Montenegro, as amended by Act No. 215/1993 Coll., Act No. 42/1995 Coll. and Act No. 302/1995 Coll. Accepted was a ratio of 105 to 2 against. Completely exemplary use of the state of legislative emergency was a government bill supplementing the law of the Czech National Council No. 500/1990 Coll., on the jurisdiction of the authorities of the Czech Republic on the transfer of State ownership to certain things to other legal or natural persons who dealt with the use of small privatization funds for the disposal of damage after devastating floods in 1997. [[19.40 hours]] In the history of the Chamber of Deputies, we would find many other examples of the use of legislative emergency negotiations. A common feature of all these negotiations is the consensus of the coalition and the opposition and, above all, the fact that adopted laws help, do not harm and are accepted due to unexpected circumstances. Of course, the process of legislative emergency in the past has been overused or abused. Apart from the famous case that ended in the Constitutional Court, the case is very similar in 2001, which I have already mentioned when most of the arguments that have been raised are applicable to today's debate. In November 2001, Miloš Zeman's government pushed forward the transitional maintenance of the existing pay regulations to avoid budgetary make-up. The result was an argument about compliance with the conditions of the state of legislative emergency between the parties to the opposition treaty and the four coalitions. First of all, Mr Cyril Svoboda, who said: Mr President, Dear Government, I am deeply convinced and so am our KDU-ČSL club that there is no state of legislative emergency, because according to the rules that we have in our Rules of Procedure, it is quite obvious what the state of legislative emergency is. First, there must be exceptional circumstances, second, there must be either a serious threat to human rights or, as is probably the result of the bill that we should be discussing, that there would be considerable economic damage to the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u240	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, I understand. I will ask the rest of my colleagues in the Chamber to quiet down and continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u241	I think that the fact that the government copied the proposal originally submitted by Members of the Czech Social Democratic Party, Mr Škromach and Mr Hofman, so that the government, by copying this proposal, merely conveys what was already clear, that the government's initial commitment to increasing salaries for workers in the budgetary sphere will not take place. The Government submitted this proposal in 2000. She knew clearly its implications for the state budget and cannot argue with what it states in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, the government says that the amendment proposal is tabled because of the lack of resources to pay in the state budget for 2002. It would at least be fair to say that funds are missing in the government's draft state budget. No state budget for 2002 has yet been approved, which means that we cannot say that there is no money in the state budget for the salaries of doctors, teachers, health workers, in the budgetary sphere. And this fact, namely that the government first promises something and then fails to do so, cannot in any way be described as an exceptional circumstance in which there is a significant economic damage to the State. In short, promising workers wage increases, then not fulfilling this commitment and calling solutions a solution that even requires extraordinary circumstances and extraordinary discussions, I think the position is completely unsustainable. For this reason, the motion to support the resolution cannot be supported by the fact that there is a legislative emergency. There wasn't one, there isn't one, so it doesn't even last. To this the Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Vladimír Špidla responded: Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I think that the situation at present is strange, because this is the situation after 9/11 of this year, when the situation is so dramatic that the approval of the state budget has a value that it has never had in the past, where the limit, which is given so firmly in time, we must realise that it would be beyond any state interest. Given that the construction of the budget is prepared in such a way that it is not possible to switch to a 16-class salary system, although I do not like it very much, under the pressure of this situation I have tabled a proposal and, as I have already said, the overall situation is extreme and complex, I am convinced that the reasons for the state of legislative emergency are because there is a danger of human rights and, after all, there is a general danger to the Czech Republic. Thank you. This was asked by Mr Josef Janeček: Dear colleagues, the Vice Prime Minister stressed another serious matter, namely that there is a threat to human rights. I want to know what? Thank you. Member Miroslav Kalousek answered: Mr President, honourable government, colleagues, I did not want to speak on this subject initially, but allow me a brief response to the speech of Deputy Prime Minister Vladimír Špidla. I understand that politics requires a measure of demagogy, a measure of purpose, but it is bound to take its limits as a justification for the proposal put forward on 9/11, taking the suffering of thousands of people and the risk of a civilised world hostage to its own incompetence. That's naughty! - Well, you see, we could have quoted that. Vice-President of the House František Brožík: Mr President, Dear Government, fellow Members, the President opened the debate on the issue of legislative emergency. I would like to inform Mr President, Mr Cyril Svoboda that it does not matter to him or to the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club whether he declares that there is a legislative emergency or not. According to Section 59, the Government has requested the President of the House to declare a legislative emergency. The House can cancel, limit or extend the state of legislative emergency and we will decide by voting, not political talk. Miloslav Výborný: Dear colleagues, my opinion is that state-building is not merely an expression of what the government will put forward, but it can also show resistance to - well, imagine, opposition to what the government or a group of Members will put forward. - We are now discussing whether or not there is a state of legislative emergency, and then we will vote on it and decide how to vote. I suppose it is quite reasonable to ask the government what it sees the reasons for which the state of legislative emergency has been declared. For these reasons, we have not learned much in this debate. - There you go. Prime Minister Miloš Zeman: Although, of course, we have a natural interest in improving pay conditions, we have adopted a principle in the budget and in the contribution realm that says that in these times of crisis it is crucial for the country to have an approved state budget, to have a covered back and a covered background, including not only for the interior, which the Minister of the Interior spoke about, but also for defence, health care and a number of other specific activities, including foreign activities, including sending relevant missions abroad and so on. Yes, this value, which is not just one political party, but should be the value of the Czech Republic, is most important to us. That is why we are putting forward this proposal and it is quite clear that the government would have to withdraw the draft state budget law if this proposal had not been adopted, because it would have logically been in conflict with the law that was adopted before 11 September. I'm trying to make this perfectly clear to you, but allow me to conclude with two Zemanian remarks. I welcome the fact that the People's Party has become a fighter for the rights of workers. - Well, tonight's the other way around. The People's Party is fighting the elderly. This is hell, this. Especially at the time she was in government, she proved that many times. Well, I'm thinking about it. Second, my doctor suggested I lose 10 kilos. - Well, that's what I need. If I hear a few more speeches from the four-wheelers in which my stomach rises, my doctor will be successful. Let's hear it. Nobody listens to me. That's interesting. Says Mr. Zeman here. [[19.50 hours]] President of the Chamber of Deputies Václav Klaus. - They had lunch today with Katalina, Zeman and Klaus. - Now, I understand, I have a written application for Mr Cyril Svoboda as the only one to be in a state of legislative emergency. Member Cyril Svoboda for KDU-ČSL: Mr President, Dear Government, I do not think that the argument of September 11 of this year can really be used. This bill, which is in the law, was not incorporated into any draft state budget and did not count on this situation nor on the proposal submitted by colleague Škromach and colleague Hofman. In my opinion, it is a completely pseudoargument where one step is considered to be state-building: to remove claims from people -- well, that is what we say -- who are supposed to receive wages as promised to them. So we're here today for retirement. Demagogy in this sense that the state budget does not deal with a single item, namely wages, there are more items. If there's no money left for budget workers, let them find themselves in some other way. Well, our speech. This is not the only state of legislative emergency. What Vice-President Brožík says. Of course, the government has the right to propose a state of legislative emergency, and, of course, the President of the House can declare this state of legislative emergency, but that does not mean that when the Government says so, the President of the House declares that this is the case. This will be decided by the House by its vote. He'll decide. I say my opinion, which I stand firm on. In this sense, there was no state of legislative emergency, there isn't, and there won't be. Speaker of the House Václav Klaus: Mr. Member, I think you should go back to law school, he says to Cyril Svoboda. Whether or not there will be a state of legislative emergency, this House will actually decide by vote. Not your statement. In this technical detail, it would be good if you considered if you would speak again with your argument after this debate, which once again evokes the atmosphere of the third term. The Chamber of Deputies approved the bill in a short hearing. Although not overused by the Institute of Legislative Emergency, it cannot be said that it is used only in a unique way. As we have seen, the final court meeting the strict conditions of the existence of exceptional circumstances has so far always been the Chamber of Deputies. As Jindřiška Syllová rightly points out in the book Parliament of the Czech Republic, the institution of the state of legislative emergency is in two respects more advantageous than the procedure for approving the bill at first reading, as amendments can be tabled and the minority cannot block this procedure. Well... It was because of the possibility of submitting amendments that the Chamber of Deputies also voted for the government's austerity package of Prime Minister Fischer, which was discussed on 24 and 25 September 2009. The consensual atmosphere in the House is also witnessed, despite the rather similar situation with the budget measure of the Zemanův Government of 2001, this time, there was no objection to the negotiation of draft laws in a state of legislative emergency. For the sake of completeness, let us add that a draft law on the implementation of the UN Security Council's decision on actions to ensure peace and security, § 100 JŘPS, can also be negotiated briefly on a government bill in a state of state or state of war in accordance with Art. 8 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic. The first case occurs exceptionally and the state of danger and the state of war has not yet been declared in the Czech Republic. In view of all the arguments put forward, I believe that there is no reason to discuss the law in a state of legislative emergency, but my colleague RatiborskRatiborský Michal closes, who unfortunately could not speak here. Now a colleague of Kukla. A state of government despair. Let me also speak in the debate on the reduction of pension valorisation. Well, they wouldn't let you, co-worker, so I'm here to perform for you. In my opinion, the government has committed fraud on voters because it declared before the elections that it would not touch pensions so-called. When we look at the pre-election programs, the PirSTAN coalition points, we learn - I quote: We guarantee the legal valorisation of pensions, thanks to which the living standards of seniors grow with the economy. Well, it's kind of... It's scrubbing. The Prime Minister of Fiala said last November in an interview for Lightning that a mechanism is set up to valorize pensions according to the law. And the current situation? In any other situation, the government is talking about the importance of the functioning of the rule of law, and today it will change something that has already been legally claimed. If one of the defining features of the rule of law is that we respect legal rights, then the government interprets the principles of the rule of law as appropriate. And we, as an YES movement, fundamentally reject it. For us, the unchangeableness of the rule of law is essential. The previous government was dealing with an unprecedented crisis. We all remember how some of the exponents of today's government coalition beat the then president Radek Vondráček to declare a state of legislative emergency. In the situation of the then covid crisis, the lives of our fellow citizens were at stake. Today we are witnessing a complete communication fiasco of the government. I wouldn't be afraid to call him a state of government despair, says Mr. Kukla. The very fact that the government wants to reduce valorization in a state of legislative emergency only shows the full naked despair and fear it has of negotiating. She is well aware that she is going against what she guaranteed the voters before the elections. The arrogance of how the government wants to discuss the change in pensions, if you want to rob the elderly in broad daylight, in quotation marks, illustrates the views of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. It was Markéta Pekarová Adamová who criticized the previous government for negotiating laws during the time of the covid crisis in a state of legislative emergency. But what used to be doesn't apply to anyone anymore. In short, once the roles are reversed, the angle of view will be reversed. Even renowned constitutional lawyers draw attention to discussing the change in pensions in a state of legislative emergency. The head of the Department of Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law of Charles University, Professor Marek Antoš, points out that if the government enforces changes in pensions in a state of legislative emergency, it seems to him very likely that he will come across the Constitutional Court, which, according to him, can bring further damage, repayment and other similar circumstances. Therefore, following this path seems to me to be gambling for various reasons, supplemented by Professor Marek Antoš. In his view, the government did not take steps to prevent legislative distress. The fact that I do nothing and react in a situation where there is a need to react quickly does not justify using this extraordinary device. Exceptional circumstances are not fulfilled, the head of the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law of Charles University is concluded by Professor Marek Antoš. So much for Mr. Kukla. Now I have a colleague here, Novák. Marek Novák: Let's name it clearly and don't freak out. The five-calice government has decided to make full use of its options and, according to the method, the flood is strengthening us. It's a sign that the extended after-election party and the Babiš government party are over. Gentlemen and ladies are hungover, says Mr. Novák, and they're looking for someone to pay for them. And since the election marathon is over and the others will be long gone, he will touch the money for those who can't defend himself - retired people. And right away, so that no one can hear from it, we will discuss it in a state of legislative emergency that the Prime Minister has asked for, and the President of the House has, in turn, complied with. Let's remember what a legislative emergency is. A state of legislative emergency may be declared in exceptional circumstances where the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the State or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. [[20.00 hours]] The situation of legislative emergency is announced by the President of the House on a proposal from the Government. It may be declared under the Rules of Procedure for a certain period of time. In the event of a declared state of legislative emergency, the President of the House may decide, at the request of the Government, that the Government's bill submitted will be discussed in a brief hearing. In the event of a legislative emergency, the House shall, when discussing the agenda of the meeting, examine whether the situation of the legislative emergency persists, vote again before discussing the draft law whether the state of the legislative emergency persists and whether the conditions for the accelerated negotiations are laid down for a specific law. The procedure for examining the bill in a short hearing does not have a first reading. The President shall direct the proposal to the Committee and shall set a time limit beyond which the committee must present its resolution. After that, a second reading of the bill will take place, and it can be abandoned from the general debate, which is decided by the House. Speaking time can be reduced to five minutes. The third reading of the bill can take place immediately after the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, the government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on pension insurance, as amended, is not, I repeat, not a law that should be discussed at such short notice in a state of legislative emergency. On the contrary, it is a law on which there must be the broadest consensus which must be explained to the citizens of our Republic and which must not deny the very existence of a pension scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have worked for this republic, our country, our beautiful country, all their lives have a right to retire. Maybe some plan to fulfill their dreams that they didn't make, others want to pursue their grandchildren. It is finally time for them to breathe out and plan their lives according to their needs. We as the Czech Republic owe it to them. As representatives of this republic, you deny it to them, it doesn't concern you. I don't want to touch anyone's conscience in this room as he takes care of his parents and grandparents, says Mr. Novák, I know you don't see the problem. You live in plenty and you can make sacrifices, but there are people in this republic who don't have children, they don't have relatives, they don't have friends, they don't have friends, and you steal from dirty people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u242	So I'm going to ask my colleagues in the hall if they can calm down or transfer the discussion to the foyer. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u243	Mr. Novák here says you're not ashamed. It's about the procedure. Are the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens at risk? No. Is the security of the state at risk? It's not. Is there significant economic damage? Meanwhile, the Minister of Finance claims that he will fit into the budget while maintaining its valuations and will not increase it. So there's no chance. So what on earth are we doing here today? Mr. Novák asks. Come sit down at the table, say honestly how you have it all now, and let's look for a solution, says Mr Novák. Hello, do you copy? There are no grounds for a legislative emergency. - Looks like Mr. Novák is very naive. That's not in the speech. But nobody wants to sit down. So, colleagues, colleagues say, Mr Novák, stop it, you still have time to stop it and show people that you mean well about our republic. You still have time to save your face. What will you tell your constituents? Isn't that still Babiš? - It says here. Well, CT24 commented on it, the Respekt cult, that it's all because of Babiš. So... Well, now I don't even know what the TV says anymore. I guess no one can take that seriously anymore, says Mr. Novák. Therefore, let us discuss everything properly, let us hear opinions on the effects of this decision. I am able to understand that when things fail, steps need to be taken that may be unpopular at the moment, but necessary for the future. But not by someone telling me to keep my mouth shut - I don't know who said it - and step, and step, and not watch when they're jerking off in broad daylight by those who should have our respect and respect. Thank you. Says Marek Novák. Well, here I am - Martin Kolovratník. He's got it in even small letters. The honourable Member - he couldn't talk either, Mr Kolovratník likes and often and for a long time and today they didn't allow him to, I mean yesterday, I'm losing track of time. In my speech, honourable Members, I would first like to address the important finding of the Constitutional Court of the ÚS 55/10 of 1. 3. 2011 concerning adoption in a state of legislative emergency, i.e. the topic that we are dealing with today. Legal sentence: Representatives of Parliament's opposition, which is often composed of representatives of political parties represented in Parliament, but who are not directly involved in the exercise of government power and who are usually found in the number minority, must be allowed, in view of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the protection of minorities, to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights in the framework of legislative procedures and must not be prevented from performing the above mentioned, for democracy the irreplaceable function of the parliamentary opposition. Among the most fundamental rights of the parliamentary opposition or its individual members, which should be constitutionally guaranteed in a democratic rule of law, rights guaranteeing parliamentary minority participation in parliamentary procedures, rights enabling parliamentary opposition to exercise supervision and control of the ruling majority and government itself can be included. Furthermore, these are rights enabling parliamentary opposition to block or delay most of the decisions taken, laws, and, last but not least, rights protecting the parliamentary opposition and its individual members from persecution and will on the part of the majority. The degree and level of adjustment of the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition in the system, as well as the scope of the space in which the parliamentary opposition is allowed to perform its irreplaceable functions, are not only a sign of the level of political and parliamentary culture of the society, but also a sign of the degree of democraticity of the political system in question. It is always necessary to seek and assess the balance between the legitimate interests of the ruling majority and the parliamentary opposition or minorities when deciding on the level and the extent of the guarantee of any of the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as their exercise. On the one hand, not admitting some of the above-mentioned rights to the opposition, or factually preventing their proper and undisturbed performance as a result of the actions of the ruling majority, can lead not only to weakening the legitimacy of the exercise of power, but to constantly restricting, or even violating, fundamental democratic principles, the democraticity of the political system itself. On the other hand, the excessive degree and scope of guarantee of individual rights of the parliamentary opposition may lead to their frequent abuse and abuse by the opposition, which may result in weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. It is therefore essential that individual rights and authorisations guaranteed by the parliamentary opposition also correspond to certain obligations and responsibilities for their exercise. Parliamentary opposition, in addition to the necessary respect for the rule of law, is thus required not only for its constituents to play the role of so-called responsible and constructive opposition. [[20.10 hours]] The Constitutional Order explicitly admits the possibility of discussing the Government's draft law in a shortened negotiation only on the basis of Art. 8 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the security of the Czech Republic, at a time of state or state of war. Therefore, if constitutional order provides for such a possibility only in one case, it is clear that this is not generally possible in other situations. This is not a gap in the Constitution if the Constitutional Order knows the possibility of discussing the bill in a short hearing. The Constitutionalist has decided only to accept this possibility in extreme and extraordinary situations. While it can be admitted that, at the level of the law, the Rules of Procedure, there will be other cases where laws can be discussed in a reduced procedure - a legislative emergency - but because it is an adjustment of the Praeter Constitution and because the purpose of the constitutional regulation of a reduced hearing is the protection of the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic legal state, the use of the Institute of Legislative Emergency is possible only provided that a broad consensus is provided in Parliament - acclamation, or at least a majority comparable to the majority required to adopt a constitutional law - or only if the nature of the situations in which the legislative emergency is applied corresponds to the seriousness of the situations envisaged in the constitutional order for the short settlement of the bill: the state of threat, the state of war. The condition of declaring a state of legislative emergency is not only a threat of certain negative consequences, but, above all, the existence of an exceptional circumstance which has the potential to jeopardise fundamental rights and freedoms in a fundamental way, or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. An exceptional circumstance, judged by the prism of constitutional principles, can only be considered to be such a circumstance which is clearly out of the ordinary course of political processes both internal and external, or may be a circumstance posed by natural disasters. It is she who justifies the need for an immediate response by the legislator and the associated limitations on constitutional principles relating to parliamentary procedure. The conclusion on the existence of this exceptional circumstance must therefore have a reasonable basis and must be based on the facts. Its type of gravity must be comparable to that of Art. 8 constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. Therefore, the disagreement of the parliamentary opposition with the shortening of the procedure does not form an element of extraordinaryness in the context of the government's understandable interest in the adoption of the contested law before the beginning of the financial year. Therefore, as can be seen from the Constitutional Court's finding, the state of legislative emergency you have declared may well be contrary to the Constitution. You may not realize it with your hundreds of thousands of salaries, but if you don'tvalorize pensions, you're gonna get a lot of seniors in trouble. I'd like to share with you the stories, comments and insights that I get on Facebook every day, says Mr. Kolovratník. Šárka Albrechtová: If there is a financial crisis, how is it that the government has established new ministries, including entire apparatuses, new Deputys and Vice-Presidents of the House? How did the government allow an increase in constitutional officials' salaries of tens of thousands? How come no one attacks the inflation clause on church compensation? - That's what we talked about: 8 billion next year. But they're trying to turn seniors into extortionists, and the media are helping them. Of course, when they won twice the election! Martin Runza: On the contrary, what the government intends to do to the elderly is not positive, but it shows that the elderly are in their stomachs. It's a tradition with the ODS. It's new to the people's. They must have mixed up the resort. Martin Runza again: The Fialův government hates retired people. Agreed. Kateřina Machová: Old people will leave nursing homes and will have to hire a service that will only reach them for a few hours, and they will live without help to suffer because they will not know what to do. Jindřich Rybníček: Thank you to the party and government for helping us, the old people. We'd get too weird and we'd get used to it. There are no pies without a job. What about the fact that we've been working our whole lives to make generations of us better, and the old ones once thought of us? I guess we worked too hard to see the anger of many, like we're taking money from the system, and we're actually -- three dots -- a nuisance. Jarmila Semirádová: I don't understand why they've added so many thousand, I don't understand, either, and now they're blaming seniors and they have to beg them. Ugly government, says Jarmila Semirádová. He's writing to the Kolovratník. Jirka Staněk: Now everyone here is cursing. And who chose them, huh? They raise their salaries, and they take the elderly. That's really responsible! Zdeněk Kadlic: I worked 53 years and 193 days to get a pension. I think it's the state's duty to pay me my money. Mrs. Jitka of Pardubice: You know, when there are two retired people in the family and maybe some people make extra money, it works. But I and many of my friends are widows. That's a lot of pay for one. I only go shopping once a week, I've got what I need written down, but every week the prices are higher. Tell them there are many grandmothers who could never beg even if they didn't have something to eat, and they don't have the Internet, and they don't even know where they'd go. Three exclamation points. We are also deprived of discounts on fare - yes, they took that away from you, the new government was in a hurry, 1.9 billion, really small - or other advantages. I have a button phone. I don't even want another one yet, but I can't get a cheap ticket either by train or by bus. Payment on the spot is more expensive. And those are advantages and disadvantages, but so far it's all going well. I only live if I don't have to leave enough money at the pharmacy. And I'm about to get a bill from Čez. But there are those in my neighborhood who are in love with each other these days because they don't have to pay the EET, they don't have to pay taxes, so they won't be against this government. We're defending your government, because we've all really had our best times. - That's what he says to the Kolovratník. He means our government, not our current government. - If we didn't send money and everyone else out of our republic, we'd all be fine. They sold it all out, so unfortunately it's gone. This really is a divided world, writes Mrs. Jitka. Here he writes... Mrs. Jitka z Pardubice. A legacy. Dear Member, I would like only briefly to respond to your discussion with Deputy Minister Jurečka Jelínková, my appallment to the Deputy Secretary already. She's just a parrot, and now she's a people's news girl, writes the lady. Since I have been resident for 60 years in Mrs Jelínková's constituency, I know the local situation well. This is Mrs Jelínková and the poster: We will not leave Czech pensioners in the lurch. Before the Senate elections, she upset me with the poster "We will not leave Czech pensioners in the lurch" and the increase in pensions is directly from the law. He's not applying to him now. He doesn't even report for that. Then she didn't make it to the Senate, so Minister Jurečka took her as a counselor, and now I know she's the deputy. More next time. A lot of strength and patience in today's parliament. Greetings, Jiří Solař. And then there's Mr. Ryba. He didn't get the floor either. He just had a point. You know that health is the most important thing. We should take care of our health, so we should run, so I propose a procedural motion to interrupt the point by 23 March 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u244	Wait a minute, I'll write down until March 2nd, until...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u245	You're to vote, Mr. Chairman, they say here. 23. 3. 2023. All threes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u246	Yes, I still see Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka reporting with a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u247	On the one hand, I think that this proposal is unvoteable, because giving an interruption to this point in the grounds that Members are to run, so I think that there is no reason for this to be voted in this way in terms of the House's deliberations, the legislative process. I'm the one who says it's unvoting. But I'm counter-proposaling, and that's to interrupt this point for five minutes, which means by March 3, 2023, to 20 hours, 25 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u248	Yes, thank you. Mr. Haas continued to report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u249	Have a nice long night. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the time, in accordance with Paragraph 54 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 8th sentence of the second Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with Article 58 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that this item be interrupted until today's time of 20.23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u250	Yes. Anyone else applying for a counterproposal? It's not like that. I'll get some more work done so my colleagues can show up. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with your I.D. cards. I will repeat for colleagues who have now arrived in the hall, we will be voting on three procedural proposals. We'll take it from the back. The last counterclaim was made by Mr Haas, in order to interrupt today's meeting by 20.23 hours. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 75, 131 votes were cast, for they were 6, against 97. The motion was not accepted. Another procedural proposal that we will be voting on was the proposal by Vice Prime Minister Jurečka for five minutes, which is currently coming to 20.25 hours. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of interrupting our negotiations within 20.25 hours. Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 136 Members voted in favour, 5 against 99. Nor has this proposal been adopted. And now we will vote on the original proposal by Mr Babiš, who proposes to interrupt our meeting tonight by 23. 3. 2023. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 137 Members voted in favour, 44, against 91. Nor has this proposal been adopted. At this point, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is registered with a factual remark, so she will respond to the debate. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u251	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I've already announced this once, and I've called on the current government coalition that I think you should think about the proposal you're making here, and I'd like to ask you again, so I'd like to make a procedural motion to interrupt this point by Tuesday within one hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u252	May I ask the Member to clarify - by Tuesday at 13:00?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u253	Yes, that means if it's okay... That means until March 7, 2023 until 13:00. And I would ask you, Mr President, to put this proposal to a vote, and of course, I would ask all of the coalitions to support the proposal, and there is still enough time for the coalition to think about the proposal that it is putting forward here. I think everything can still be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u254	Okay. We have another procedural proposal to vote on. It is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's proposal that we interrupt our negotiations by 7. 3. 2023 within 13 hours. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 78 vote, 140 Members were enrolled, 45 voted in favour, against 92. The motion was denied. There. Madam President, is he claiming priority rights? With a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u255	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a much less ambitious and much more practical proposal, with regard to the employees, which may have been very nice to hear from the Vice-President Olga Richterová and others. The employees have been here several nights. It's not because of us, it's because of you that you've decided... [[Sand, banging on the benches and dissenting screams in the ranks of government MPs.]] I've got time. I've got time. ...that you decided to just keep them hostage here at night. So after four days, give them a chance to sleep. I think they've had enough, and I propose a procedural motion to interrupt this point by eight o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u256	Let me ask you, is there any other counterproposal? In order that this does not always happen to us here in order to vote and re-learn proposals, I ask, in particular, from the opposition, if there is still any counter-proposal that we would vote against Mrs Schillerová's proposal? It's not like that. Then I will repeat the only proposal that has been made, namely Mrs Schillerová's proposal, to interrupt our negotiations until eight o'clock by tomorrow morning. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a procedural proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 79, 141 Members were enrolled, 45 voted in favour, against 78. Nor has this procedural proposal been adopted. There. We're going back... I'm gonna load up some apologies. Sorry. Mr Staněk apologizes from 9 to 20 hours without giving any reason, Mr Wenzl Milan apologizes from 19 a.m. to 9 a.m. for medical reasons. That was an apology. And we are continuing the debate in detail. Next in line is Mr. Mr. Babka Ondřej... This is the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u257	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the atmosphere is getting a little thicker here. We need to talk to our colleagues, which is why I'm taking a 15-minute break at the coalition clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u258	Fifteen minutes, that means we'll meet at 20.44 hours, and until then, I'm interrupting our negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u259	It is 20.44 hours and we should continue the negotiations. The Vice-President of the ODS Group Eva Decroix is reporting. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u260	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to ask for another 15 minutes on behalf of the ODS Club. The chairmen are still consulting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u261	Yes. So we'll continue at 20.59 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for a break is up and I am taking the meeting as scheduled. President Marek Výborný came forward with the right of priority. I'll ask you to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u263	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Government, colleagues, thank you for allowing me to speak here for all five parliamentary government coalitions. I think we're in a situation where for four days, if I count well, 84 hours, we're discussing one single point, and that amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, House press 392. I think it is quite obvious, and if we look at a number of Constitutional Court findings that confirm this, then the proportionality between the rights of the opposition - now I speak in my words - so that the opposition should be heard so that the opposition has the right to delay, i.e. to construct negotiations, but at the same time that the majority in the House also have the right and the opportunity to express this majority by their decision, thus allowing the government to rule and manage this country in a regular manner, so that all of this has been filled with a height. The moment is coming, or certainly the moment has come when obstruction in this House, unfortunately, I do not say it with joy, has become destruction. The destruction of this House, the destruction of democracy, and I don't think it belongs here. It is not possible for the House to be blocked in this way in the right to decide on matters which are its own. I really must say that the degree of destruction has reached such an order that it is absolutely necessary to return it to a rational mode, which will respect not only the letter of the law, that is, the letter of the Rules of Procedure, but also respect the will of the legislator and the sense of what the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are meant to be, that is, by defining the rules for negotiations where the rights of the opposition will be honored, and I am clearly convinced that, after 84 hours and four days, these rights have indeed been fully respected. If you look back at the four days, there were dozens of opponents who could and would perform here, there were opposition leaders, not in the order of minutes, but in the order of several hours. Although they were speaking at the moments of the programme, when they were to speak on a completely different matter, when they were to comment on, for example, a state of legislative emergency, the House of Directors respected the fact that, as a leader of the opposition, as a chair of a parliamentary political party, or as a club chairman or another person with priority rights, they could express themselves at the moment to which they considered appropriate. It is quite indisputable that these rights of the opposition have therefore not been denied that we have fully respected them, but if we have reached a state of destruction at this time after 84 hours, it is not only right, but it is an obligation - it is an obligation! - a parliamentary majority to intervene and return the House where it should be. I will allow myself to make a proposal that I will ask the President to vote on afterwards, so that, after this introduction, I will also refer to the very specific findings of the Constitutional Court, so I will quote first - it is true that you will already find some parts of this meeting in the tapestry of this meeting, I have already quoted some, but not all of them, so I would like to quote first from the Constitutional Court's finding, which you will find under the file mark 55/10 of 1 March 2011. Quote: Rule 72 Role of Parliamentary opposition. I will therefore ask, in particular, the opposition's representatives to listen very carefully. - The role of the parliamentary opposition in the legislative process. However, the principle of majority decision-making referred to in Art. 6 The Constitution of the Czech Republic is one of the fundamental defining features of democracy and democratic decision-making, and most of the governments of parliamentary democracies are dependent on the support, i.e. on the trust of the parliamentary majority, composed of representatives of one or more political parties represented in Parliament, it is not the majority's authority, but it is based on the free exercise of the mandate of all its members, on their equality, because they are all representatives of the people, on the freedom of expression of all and on the freedom of parliamentary debate, regardless of what political faction or opinion current belong to individual members of Parliament. Representatives of Parliament's opposition, which is often made up of representatives of political parties represented in Parliament, but who are not directly involved in the exercise of government power and who are usually found to be in the number minority, must, in view of the constitutionally guaranteed principle of the protection of minorities, be allowed to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights in legislative procedures and be free to perform the above mentioned, for democracy the irreplaceable function of the parliamentary opposition. The presence of the opposition and the media also forces a coherent government majority to explain and justify their decisions - the principle of contradictivity, based on free exchange of views and opinions, is thus guaranteed in order to seek a wider consensus and, where appropriate, to remedy the shortcomings of the proposed law. This principle is, in fact, an ideological basis for Parliament's activities as an exchange of views, convincing opponents of truth and justice, as well as as as negotiating points. Parliamentaryism is, in this sense, an attempt at a government debate. If you look back at the 84 hours of negotiations, they have repeatedly responded to the talks here, especially as Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka, but also other representatives of the government coalition. The law was here, and I apologize now, because I have no idea whether it was yesterday or the day before yesterday, Minister Jurečka very detailed reasons, both in the material aspect and, of course, in the reason why the government proposed its discussion in a legislative emergency. I will continue from the same finding - Article 76: When deciding on the level and the extent of the guarantee of any of the aforementioned rights of the parliamentary opposition, as well as their performance, it is always necessary to seek and assess - and now please listen - the balance between the legitimate interests of the ruling majority and the parliamentary opposition or minorities. On the one hand, not admitting some of the above-mentioned rights to the opposition, respectively. The effective obstruction of their proper and undisturbed performance as a result of the actions of the ruling majority can lead not only to weakening the legitimacy of the exercise of power, but to constantly restricting, or even violating, fundamental democratic principles, the democraticity of the political system itself. On the other hand - on the other hand - the excessive degree and the breadth of the guarantee of individual parliamentary opposition rights can lead to their frequent abuse and abuse by the opposition, which may result in weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. [[21.10 hours]] It is therefore essential that individual rights and authorisations guaranteed by the parliamentary opposition also correspond to certain obligations and responsibilities for their exercise. Parliamentary opposition is thus required, in addition to the necessary respect for the rule of law, not only to its constituents, to fulfil the role of so-called. responsible and constructive opposition. Although this is rather a moral appeal depending on the overall level of political culture prevailing in society, the necessary condition for proper and effective performance of parliamentary opposition functions is precisely that it is carried out in a constructive and responsible manner which corresponds to the legitimate functions of the opposition as a real alternative to the government majority, respectively. corresponds to the functions of supervision and control over the activities of the ruling majority. This requirement is, among other things, an expression of the principle of government at a time when both the current ruling majority and the minority should bear in mind that they do not belong to one or the other group forever, and the current ruling majority may soon be in the position of a parliamentary minority and vice versa. Therefore, such decisions should not be taken which would in fact prevent the exercise of the rights guaranteed by one or the other group. So much for the 2011 find. We have all heard repeatedly the words about the constructive and responsible opposition, and if we had taken action after a few hours of negotiations, we would certainly have, as the ruling majority, abused their position and abused their majority in this House. But we are taking this step, once again, on the fourth day of negotiations on this one point. In conclusion, allow me one more - it will be very brief - a quote that many can remember, because this is the founding of the Constitutional Court's file mark 7/22. It concerns a constitutional complaint at the time regarding the negotiation of the pandemic law. And here's the thing. 113 says: Although the Constitutional Court in the past has granted parliamentary opposition the right to delay or block decisions taken by a parliamentary majority to achieve its political objectives, virtually. Obstruction of the political objectives of the ruling majority cannot - can not result in the abuse of these rights by weakening or preventing the effective exercise of power by the ruling majority. There is a need for individual rights of the parliamentary opposition to be responsible for certain obligations and responsibility for their performance, as this is required to fulfil the role of the so-called. responsible and constructive opposition. - Here the discovery refers to the already quoted 2011 finding. These are findings that are 11 years away from each other, or it is clear that the Constitutional Court has maintained its assessment of how the ruling majority and the parliamentary minority are to exercise their rights and responsibilities. Based on what I have said, and on all the facts that we are not only in the right, but we also have a duty in this House as the ruling majority to return to this constructive and responsible procedure, and I firmly believe that on this constructive and responsible procedure we agree not only as the ruling majority, but also with the opposition, because we do not form two blocks to fight together, however legitimate it is and it is quite normal and normal that we do not agree on many things, so in the finals we are responsible for the constructive and responsible governance of this country. Everyone. All 200 Members. Therefore, I would like to ask the Vice-President to vote on him as well after I have read the proposal. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Article 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, in this detailed debate in the second reading of the House of Press 392, I propose to continue with the restriction of two speeches after five minutes, including factual remarks, and at the same time this restriction applies to all Members, i.e. Members with priority rights. I ask that this be put to the vote, because we now consider this a perfectly legitimate procedure to return the House to where it is to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u264	At present, only counterproposals can be filed against this proposal. I will ask you to provide parametric adjustments to what has been said here, not to give a comprehensive explanation. This means just give the parametric adjustment whether you want the performance to be x-fold more or less, and then give the word to the other counterproposals. Mr Okamura will appear first. In advance, I advise you that if you do not follow the direction of the management meeting, you will be taken away from the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, do you have... [[Members of the SPD and YES 2011 express their disagreement, banging on the benches.]] Your counterproposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u265	My counterproposal is that I'm not gonna jump on this censorship and this silence. So that's my performance, and I have nothing to say about it, because the Constitution doesn't say anything like that! Citizens have the right to adequate material security in old age and incapacity to work as in the loss of providers, so we here proceed fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms... [[Vice-President Bartošek: Your counterproposal?]] [[Vice-President Bartošek: I'm bringing you to order! - Government MPs are banging the benches.]] I'll be short. The fundamental charter of rights is clear and we proceed fully... in accordance with the law, in full compliance with the Constitution. [[Vice-President Bartošek: I'm leading you to order for the second time!]] Shut me up all you want... [[Vice-President Bartošek: I am asking for a counterclaim.]] ...citizens can see it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u266	President Schillerová will now speak. And I'm also asking you to modify the counterproposal parametrically. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u267	Mr Vice-President, what parametric adjustment if the proposal is unvoting? Absolutely, completely conflicted...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u268	What is your proposal, Madam President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u269	...with the Rules of Procedure. It's an unvoted proposal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u270	This will be decided by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u271	He's absolutely unvoteable. [[Vice-President Bartošek: Your proposal?]] Does that mean next time you'll come up with a resolution to keep quiet? That means you'll come up with a resolution that we can't defend ourselves?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u272	Madam President, counterclaim!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u273	This is your...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u274	I'm leading you to order, and I'm asking you to make a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u275	I say he's unvoting. Mr. Chairman Excellent has long justified...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u276	I'm leading you to order for the second time, and I'm asking you to say counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u277	... myproposal. The proposal is that it is unvoting and in sharp conflict with the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u278	This will be decided by the Chamber of Deputies by its vote. Thank you. Now, President Vondráček. Please. [[Objection that he doesn't have priority rights.]] We are currently in the phase that it is possible to administer...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u279	We're dealing with a procedure. I don't understand the proposal. Here it was said that it would be limited to two or five minutes, including factual remarks. So we're gonna have factual notes for five minutes now? [[He's turning to the government:]] Mr. Secretary, on the microphone! On the microphone. If you have something to say, it's on the microphone. So, as Chairman Výborný said, that doesn't make any sense. He said, including factual remarks, twice five minutes. So the parametric adjustment is simple. It is entirely legitimate to vote on the basis of Articles 59 and 99 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to act twice in accordance with Articles 59 and 99 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 7, I have no objection to this, even the five minutes are based on Section 99. [[Vice-President Bartošek: Your proposal?]] And that's it. So we can vote on it. We can't vote in the rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u280	All right, that's what the Chamber of Deputies will decide by their vote. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So I'll read what we're going to vote on, because there are no other adjustments. President Excellent puts to the vote that only two speeches, including factual remarks, will be possible during the detailed debate of the second reading, and those speeches will have a maximum of five minutes, and the factual remark remains for two minutes. And that includes priority rights. It's time for them to be heard... [[This is Mrs Schiller with an objection to the President's procedure.]] You may object to my action after I vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u281	No, I object to the President's procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u282	It's legitimate, I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u283	You're not running this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u284	Objection is legitimate, I respect it. [[Mr Vondráček reporting.]] Unfortunately, there is a counter-proposal against the President's action, Mr Member?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u285	No, I just wanted to make sure that you understood my speech as counterproposal to vote only twice five minutes in the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u286	Thank you for the clarification. I'll put it to a vote. Thank you. So I will now first vote on the opposition to the President's procedure. I'll check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards. The order has settled and I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the opposition to the President's procedure? Let him raise his hand who's in favour. Who opposes this objection? It is a vote with order number 80, followed by 158 Members of Parliament, for 61, against 94. There was no agreement with the opposition. I am now going to vote on Mr Vondráček's counter-proposal that there will be a two-and-a-half-minute reduction in the speech. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this counterproposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this counterproposal? In the vote with order number 81, 159 Members and Members are enrolled, for 1, against 118. This proposal has not been agreed with. And now we will vote on the original proposal by President Marek the Výborný. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 82, 160 Members are registered, for proposal 98, against 62. The proposal has been approved. We will now proceed according to the approved procedure. In the course of the debate, Mr Ondřej Babka is enrolled. I ask you to speak in a detailed debate. Is Mr. Ondřej Babka here? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u287	Mr Vice-President, I assume that you will turn on my time after what happened here, and in an incredible way you bent the Rules of Procedure when you voted in favour of limiting priority rights. That's something that's totally unimaginable, and I think this vote is going to catch up with you. I have entered into a detailed debate with my amendment, which I have been able to upload to the system, under the number 2364, so I am referring to it in this detailed debate. And I don't think it's worth going on with this meeting right now, because what happened is something so incredible that I can't even find the words to justify my amendment. Unbelievable. Just unbelievable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u288	Mr Radek Vondráček will be next. Mr. Ambassador, just for the record, I have your point of order. [[Yes.]] The first will be a factual point and then amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u289	Yes, Mr. Vice-President. It's just that even in this situation, when the law doesn't actually apply, I follow it. So, first of all, I have made a point of fact, and I will respond to the debate and what has happened. For what happened for the first time in 30 years, for what we just didn't understand why you did it, when the second reading was coming to an end and we were coming to a third reading, and there was some agreement that there would be two meetings at the break before the amendments were prepared, you would come and say that the House could cancel the law with one vote. I'm glad you were only thinking about the Rules of Procedure. I'm afraid of what you'll cancel next. Then we'll treat each other like animals next time. Paragraph 67 is quite simply formulated that whenever the Prime Minister, a member of the government, a party chairman, a club chairman, so gets priority rights. And what are you going to do now? I still don't understand. What are you gonna do about it? You turn it off and then you take it out of here? [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] I don't have it, I have it, the five-minute limit, but you're gonna take him out of here like Lubomír Volný? Are you ready for the cops in the lobby yet, Mr. Vice-President? That's what the break was for, getting security? There's no point in this counter. It doesn't make sense to be here. I can take him and throw him down. Like Lubomír Volný. And I'll be right. I can smash this place because the law doesn't apply here. I can do whatever I want here! Do you understand what you've done? But worst of all, it's useless, and most importantly, your reasons won't stand up! End of point of fact. And now I have five minutes for that amendment. [[- Please.]] I've applied to the amendment for one simple reason that you guys are losing the hours we've been discussing here, but basically we've been here four days, and maybe this EET has been dealing with 270 days. But they went home, normally they went home at 7:00, there were lunch breaks - and beware, they were negotiating committees. You didn't count the committees. And you don't count the hours and hours of other obstruction points and proposals for the agenda that you've done for the EET. We spent almost a year here with EET. Only then did we proceed to vote at a certain time. And you, under the law, where I think we have explained not only to you, but to the majority of the professional public that there are no conditions for a legislative emergency, for a speedy hearing, for a short trial, so you want to have it done in four days!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u290	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I'm going to ask you for an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u291	I'll get on it. So basically, the numbers don't even apply. We wanted to debate. After two days, we received 600 billion from Minister Jurečka that this is the upper level of damage that threatens in ten years. That's what happened. I was here. It's two nights ago around midnight when we talked about it. Six hundred billion were said here. Then I became unsure, too. I said, so how do these numbers actually work out here in this House? Anyone can say what they want. So I decided to make one more amendment, which I have now signed up for, and since there is no room to load it into the system, I will read it orally and vote on it, it will be assigned an additional number. [[21.30 hours]] The amendment is: Amendment by Radek Vondráček to the Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and some other laws, House print number 392: One. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I § 6 ca para. 1 in point (b), CZK 400 is replaced by CZK 1 706. Justification: The aim of the amendment is to increase the amount by which the pension percentage increases when the pension is increased by an exceptional period in June 2023. If the conditions for entitlement to multiple pensions are met, this amount shall be increased by the pension, which shall be paid in full, as proposed by the Government's draft law. While I was talking outside the microphone, the minister partially reacted that it wasn't, so I assume he's gonna come out and tell me what the real damage he's talking about is. I listened to him carefully, he said 600 billion. I'd react to that eventually. And I have the right as an MP to load an amendment into the log record. But I can't if I want to, because I have limited time in a detailed debate. So we must not read the amendments. We cannot load three amendments, Mr President Výborný, when you point a finger at me, two. Right. But we want to respond to the debate. The minister will come out and tell us 700 billion, then 800, we'll change our minds and we can't. So priority rights can't talk at all or with restrictions, which is really something that's smiling. Because I had an interview on Czech Television a few hours ago that there was some proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and that the coalition was proposing its limitations and was aware that it had to be the law. This might have occurred to me that you would decide to do it completely arbitraryly. So it was the law itself in a state of legislative emergency that was the will, the will of this government majority. What you've done now, it's already insolent. There are no laws, we can do whatever we want here. This is the basic message for citizens of the Czech Republic. The law doesn't mean anything anymore. And if it does, it's just for you down there, but the government majority can do whatever they want, and you want to do whatever you want. Please don't ever say anything to me again in the democratic parties and about the democratic bloc and all that talk because you don't have the right to do it today anymore!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u292	Next in line is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. I just want to ask if Mr. Foldyna's factual point is valid? [[Yes.]] Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u293	Thank you. I'll have a simple deed. Mr Vondráček, a colleague of Vondráček, expressed his lawyer's position on this situation. I would like to ask you a question through Dr. Vondráček's management meeting, a lawyer, yes, my colleague, I would like to ask him one question. If he translated it into Czech, that means we've gotten to the stage of such a password, if it's that we're not going to throw up democracy? That means, this is what we've come to in that phase, is that what you translated the speech that a colleague from the people's party gave? Apparently, he pulled a shorter match out of a five-wheeler, someone has to say it, because of course it will go down in history, this way of law enforcement. I'm sure they'll learn about it someday, like they learned about February 28th and Klement Gottwald, so one day they'll learn about what you did here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u294	I thank you for keeping time. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will now appear, Mrs Monika Oborná will be prepared. [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] I'm sorry. I didn't see you there. If you report with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u295	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I had this interesting table drawn up - a table obstructing the former opposition, today's government coalition, even in the 7th term, and in the 8th term, because you were plus or minus both. I'll start with the 8th term. Building Act you have occupied 306 days, Dukovany 400 days, amendment of the Act on Sports Support 337 days, amendment of the Act on Registration of Sales 457 days, proposal for the election of members of the Board of the Czech Republic - began 13. 4. 2021 - Unfinished, Government draft Waste Act 340 days, draft Food Act 678 days. But we didn't, when we had a majority here, force you to walk - with respect to the employees - to stay here overnight. And the 7th term, that's even nicer reading: registering contracts 722 days, I have here EET because it was actually in both parliamentary periods, 251 days and so on. These were obstructions on your part when you were in opposition. And we are - of course we didn't like it, but we suffered because we realized you had clear rights here. You know, do you realize most of you, because I understand that leaders have decided for you, do you realize what you've supported here? That, first of all, you used the law for the first time in history, you used the institute of legislative emergency to enforce the law, which is retroactive, where there was a clear claim, where the deadline for payment runs, you trampled on our rights in the first debate on the state of legislative emergency, continued in the next stages, and today, when we were supposed to discuss the pension insurance law at last, you were unprecedented - I don't know, I'm looking at my experienced colleagues, I heard Radek Vondráček, it didn't happen in the history of this Chamber of Deputies. Absolutely not! It's all you care about. You need a law to have in the Collection of Laws within a certain period of time, you need to enforce it at all costs. Your ego completely obscured your sanity. Your sanity is completely obscured! According to Article 6 of the Constitution, political decisions, as you said, are based on the will of the majority expressed by free voting. That was quoted here. The majority's decision-making takes care of the protection of minorities. However, under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, it is possible to declare a state of legislative emergency only in exceptional circumstances. [[21.40 hours]] And don't tell us you're here with the extraordinary circumstances, the economic damage you've explained to us here. I haven't moved from here in four days almost at all, except for the absolute exception. [[Minister Jurečka - a comment from the rapporteur's desk.]] We didn't. We didn't. And don't talk to me, Minister, come to the microphone. We didn't. You have not explained how it is possible that in a budget of $2 trillion worth of $25 billion - perhaps some small mistake - you will not find there $15 billion, $19 billion for old-age pensioners. We didn't. You threatened damage here until 2050 instead of working constructively with us. It's disgusting! What a mess you're doing here, Democrats! Those of you who shaved so terribly... how you come up with a new era. [[Your time.]] Gross!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u296	I note two factual points - the first, Mr Jiří Navrátil. [[A voice from the diaper.]] You don't report with a factual remark, okay. Another factual point, Mr Marek Novák. With a point of fact? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u297	Yes, with an actual invitation... a note. I don't have an invitation for you anymore, but as for what I want to respond to, first of all to Minister Síkela, who here is a vehement time measurer. [[He's turning into government benches.]] You'll run out of time, too, believe it. Believe it. I'm interested in one thing. I have an accompanying resolution prepared for the law. I was gonna load it here, but it's long, and I'm not gonna read it in two minutes. I can't. Can you tell me what to do about it? That's one thing. Because I feel really... Well, I don't know if I... I can make it for ten, it's pretty long. Indeed, I feel fundamentally limited to the rights of a democratically elected Member. I want it on the microphone. Another thing is that a fellow Volný has already been mentioned here from the last parliamentary term. We're missing only here, and only the plexiglas, quite ideally, we have two microphones so that one is coalic, the other is opposition, so we probably don't even listen to each other. You've shut our mouths beautifully. Shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u298	So now, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and then Mrs Monika Oborná. [[To Mr Babiš:]] Do you report, Mr. Chairman, with priority rights? I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Please, you have the floor. Come on. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u299	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad I can talk here. I congratulate the Prime Minister on how he connects our society. You said you didn't want to split up, did you, Prime Minister? You didn't even get off here once. I asked you and I suggested how to deal with inflation, which you have the third highest in Europe... with Čez. But no reaction. So I'd like to read you here your government's programming statement, which you haven't evaluated once in 430 days. In 430 days, you never actually said what you were going to do. There's a preamble. The new government of the Czech Republic is coming to ask for the trust of the Chamber of Deputies at a time that is without exaggeration among the most complex and demanding periods of our modern history. It will have to deal very quickly with a number of negative phenomena that come from the outside, but they are also a significant consequence of a number of previous government decisions. This is high inflation, a covid-19 epidemic, and the consequences of the energy crisis. It says here: we are a coalition government that, thanks to the presence of five parties, represents a large group of inhabitants. Prime Minister, a large population of 43 percent. That's your wide group of residents. 2,330,000 votes, that's the broad population. We want to be a government that defends the interests of all citizens of the Czech Republic. So the second sentence, the covid epidemic. You didn't have any, you didn't have any covid. And I'm just asking: high inflation, what are you going to do with it? There's no one on the microphone, and paradoxically here, Minister Jurečka is speaking, who should fight for the interests of the elderly who built this country, so he's fighting against it. This is perhaps the first Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is totally antisocial, who takes money from pensioners. And your inflation... and where's your inflation? Third... You take money from everyone just to protect those who run you. Power generators, they run this puppet government. And you really are a new totalitarian, like I said here. You've got everything. Dr. Haas here has explained that he already knows how the Constitutional Court will decide, right? Mr. President, you've won, you've got everything, 43 percent you represent. And instead of making that gesture, normally -- and I don't know about it, but maybe Radek Vondráček, who was head of the House, understands that. And what you're doing is completely incomprehensible. Absolutely incomprehensible. And I don't know how it's supposed to work until the end of your 2025 government, because you're gonna be there for the rest of your life, because you would never make the money you have in your normal life. Never! That's the highlight of your career, the benefits, the income! That's why you went into politics. For me, not for people. And this is where you do it. I really don't understand. I really don't understand. When you call for communication - and what is the communication? The Prime Minister didn't perform here once. I don't remember him getting out. That he'd straighten out the Treasury Secretary and make the gesture here. No. On the contrary. On the contrary, you beat us. Well, I don't know how this cooperation is supposed to work. What do people say? You really want to split up this company even more? I know your media, your pro-government media, will explain how evil opposition has done everything wrong here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u300	Your time. [[Mr. Babiš: So...]] Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman, we have a deal to make. [[I will have so much time... - The President is turning off the speaker's microphone. He's still talking.]] Your first five minutes are up, and I want to ask if you're applying with priority rights in the next five minutes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u301	... laws. I'm gonna talk here because I have priority rights! And I'll talk as much as I want!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u302	Mr President, you are acting against what the House voted for. I'm turning your mic off. Leave the pitch. [[The president is turning off the microphone. Member Babiš speaks further, but he cannot be heard.]] Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, who will appear as she is properly logged in, is now registered. [[Mr. Babiš is staying behind the speaker's counter, continuing his speech.]] Mr President, you do not have the floor because you have not entered into the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and with the approval of the Chamber of Deputies. Next up, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Mrs Monika Oborná will be prepared. [[Mr Babiš is still speaking, but he cannot be heard.]] Prime Minister, I'm bringing you to order. [[Ambassador Babiš continues his speech with the microphone off. A Member of Okamura comes into the area of the riverbed, instructs other Members. A group of Members will go around the speaker's counter from all sides, Mr Babiš will continue to speak, the microphone is still off. The President is leaving his seat. But after a while, he's coming back.]] By leaving the seat, the meeting is adjourned!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u303	I'm interrupting the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the time for a break has run out, and I ask you to take your seats as approved by the seating order, and you have freed up the microphone space, because we will continue the debate in detail, and to allow you to speak to each of the Members who have applied for, so that they can confess... [[Laughter explosion, applause.]] their amendments to sign up for them, which is better terminology, yes. Next up is Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, then Mrs Monika Oborná, Taťána Malá, Zuzana Ožanová and others. [[Mr Babiš, along with other Members, is still blocking the rhetoric.]] I'll ask the lady of the house. A humble Jermanová to take the floor. Are you in the room, madam? [[He's looking for an O.R. Mr Babiš turns to the President and calls to him off the microphone: I'm applying with priority rights.]] If you apply with priority rights, you will receive the second five minutes, Mr President, but I will ask the others to return to their seats. [[Members of the occupying rhetoric are slowly breaking up.]] You'll get the floor, Mr President, I'll just wait for the space in front of you to relax. [[He's waiting.]] I think there's enough peace in the room, I'm turning on your microphone, and please, you have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u305	Mr President, I have here the publication Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Commentary - Wolters Kluwer - Jindřiška Syllová, Martin Kavěna, Eva Tetourová, Jan Němec and the collective. On page 381, it is said that if those persons exercise their right of priority during the debate in which they were in accordance with Section 59 (1) of the Treaty, they will be entitled to the right to vote. The Rules of Procedure shall be limited in speaking time and shall not be subject to such restrictions and may therefore come forward without any limits on the number of speeches and their length. [[unintelligible]] And I think Mr. Vondráček has made it very clear that you have no right to restrict me in my performance. And that's why I'm going to continue my performance. I'm going back to the government's programming statement that runs this place, which brings us new totalitarianism. As far as I know, in 30 years of practice - and it's a shame that Mr. Benda isn't here to explain it - it's basically not what you're doing today. Normally, new totalitarianism! That's 50s! I told you, Michálek, he's cut out for these trials! Punishment on order, that's what I've been through! Six years of Capi's nest! It's made up! Made up for order, folks. That's it. And now you're gonna shut us up. We can't talk here anymore! Well, the TVs aren't gonna broadcast it, no, they're with you. I don't know what people are gonna say. As the Prime Minister says, we divide. We divide. For 19 billion? Is this what you've done here? That's really unbelievable. So what do they say in the preamble? That, in addition to handling these current challenges, you couldn't handle either of them. High inflation... How are you going to deal with inflation? No one here said that on the microphone. I designed it for you x-times. You're ignoring it. The covid epidemic - there wasn't one. And the consequences of the energy crisis? That's what I'm talking about. We have the most expensive electricity, we export, the neighbors are cheaper. Is that what you think is normal? So in addition to the challenges you're writing here, which you can't handle at all, the new government wants to work hard on a number of long-term topics and projects. This is a programme that considers five coalition political parties essential for the Czech Republic to be able to compete with other developed countries. Well, you fell from the ninth place we reached to the 12th. So how'd you make it? And in order to ensure a safe existence and an ever-increasing standard of living for its citizens in the long run! So I'll read the first sentences and you don't do anything. Moreover, the Czech Republic will face a number of challenges, opportunities and decisions in the coming months and years... will bring both the changing world economy and the development of policy within the EU - there you have done absolutely nothing, there you stand inclined, Ursula and Charles Michel will dictate this to you, so that is what you do, green fanaticism... and it is necessary for the Czech Republic to be able to make the right decision on time. Even the incoming government is aware of that. So this government, which represents only 43 percent of the electorate, has simply decided to use its mandate to completely devastate our country, to deprive our pensioners of their money and to introduce new totalitarianism. You had the main censor! No? The key! Well, who's it from? Well, from Radeček Pokorný, who drives the Selela here! [[It's pointing left.]] There he sits. That's the dotyk Project. And the other counsellor, the puppeteers of the Chovanec and the Sobotka - Prime Minister, I told you, replace the counselors. [[Your time.]] [[22.10 hours]] The following programming statement is a carefully prepared summary of the main - [[Your time is up.]] I don't have any time! [[In an elevated voice.]] You won't cut me down! I have the right to speak here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u306	Leave the pitch or I'll turn off the mic. [[I'm not leaving anything! I'm not leaving anything. I'll keep talking.]] I call you to order and leave the pitch. [[You can challenge... you know who.]] I call you to order for the second time, leave the rhetorical area. [[Ambassador Babiš: Yeah.]] Or I'll turn off your mic. [[Mr. Babiš: Then turn off whatever you want.]] Since you have disobeyed the order of the President, I am turning off your microphone and I am asking you to leave the rhetorical area because, next, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is enrolled in the debate, and I am asking her to take the floor. [[Ambassador Babiš speaks off the microphone. Members of the ANO and SPD movement are coming, once again bypassing the speaker's counter, with which Mr Babiš is staying.]] Since I don't see her anywhere here, I'm going to put her in the end of the line and ask her to perform as the next Mrs Monika Oborná. Are you downloading your application? Okay. [[Ambassador Babiš continues to speak at the counter. I can't hear it. The microphone's off.]] Next up, Taťána Malá is logged in. I see her in the hall. Are you downloading an application or...? [[To Mrs. Little:]] Let's get off on the microphone. [[Ambassador Babiš, surrounded by MPs, continues to speak off the microphone.]] He doesn't talk to priority rights. The word is given by the President, that is, at this point you have to get out, you are in the hall, I will press the time machine for you. You're in the O.R., I challenged you because you're logged in, and you refused to perform with your contribution as duly logged in. [[The speaker's counter is still under siege, Mr Babiš lectures, but can't be heard.]] At present, the time is running out for Mrs Taťána Malá, because she is in the hall. She was invited to defend her amendment. [[Ambassador Babiš continues to speak to the microphone off.]] Your colleagues blocking the counter is their responsibility. At this point, I ask you repeatedly to leave this area and allow the lady to step forward. [[The situation around the speaker's desk doesn't change.]] I repeatedly ask you to leave the area around the speaker's desk and allow other Members to speak because you have not been given the floor. Just for the record, I'm saying you're running out of time, Madame, because you're in the room. [[Is that supposed to be fighting these guys or something? Are you seriously gonna let her go if she can't respond?]] I'm not restricting her to her right. The fact that Members are standing here refusing to let her go to the speaker's desk is the responsibility of these Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u307	On the screen record, I will say that the Chairman of the ANO movement is speaking with priority rights under the Rules of Procedure. [[Members standing around the speaker's counter applaud.]] And I will speak with my contribution in a detailed debate when it comes to my turn - according to the current Rules of Procedure! [[In an elevated voice.]] What you're doing here is a normal tearing calendar! And I want to ask, Mr. Chairman Fiala, if what's happening here is really true, or when you're in trouble, you'll say it's a metaphor again! Because this is unbelievable! Unbelievable! [[Very loud.]] The President speaks with priority rights and you begin to respect the Rules of Procedure! It's disgusting!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u308	Madame, you took the floor. Unfortunately, you used him as you used him. It is indeed about the fact that this time is intended to read the amendments. Next up is Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. [[Mrs. Ožanová calls from the diaper: Can I reach your microphone or...? - The President is pointing to the pitch.]] The microphone is down here, standard pitch. [[Mr President, it is not a standard situation.]] I'm gonna ask you to communicate with me through the microphone. [[Mrs. Ožanová is calling from the diaper: I cannot communicate with you...]] [[Members are still blocking the pitch.]] I am asking you, colleagues, to allow Mrs Ožanová to speak. I ask you to clear a seat at the fairground so that the lady may speak. [[Ambassador Ožan is calling from the diaper.]] I'm sorry, but since your speech isn't on the microphone, it can't be recorded. We'll only communicate with each other through the pitch and through the microphone... [[The opposition Members are still blocking the pitch, but they are letting Ms Ožanová to the microphone.]] Please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u309	[[The President is turning on the microphone.]] Mr President, one thing is that, at this point in time, the chairman of the YES 2011 movement, Mr Andrej... Mr Andrej Babiš, is to speak through you. Furthermore, I just have a question whether you have realised that you have voted that shortening the rights of the press and the press rapporteurs - this is democratic so that the rapporteur or the appellant cannot respond properly in the debate? That really isn't possible! Next thing I know, I read the e-mails, yesterday was information about how the gastronomic facilities were to be opened. Now you've used the obstructive technique to close down the gastronomic facilities. But, folks, I can really stand it with my character!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u310	Thank you. It is up to you how you used your five minutes, the first, but indeed, we are in a detailed debate, which serves to read the amendments. Next is a properly registered Ladislav Okleštěk. Anyone checking in with a factual remark? [[Mrs Pastuchová is reporting from the crowd surrounding the town.]] Jana Pastuchová. I'm going to ask you to allow Ms. Jana Pastuchová to appear on the microphone. It is duly registered with a factual remark. [[Members allow Mrs Pastuch to enter the microphone, but the counter is surrounded further.]] I beg you to allow Ms Jana Pastuchová to speak with a point of fact. I'm turning your mic on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u311	Thank you, Mr President, for turning on my microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that if you want to spend the day, the night, the day, the night, we will not move away from this counter. Don't move! [[In an elevated voice.]] Send in the cops, SWAT, we won't move. I'm here for the ninth year, and what's going on under the Fialův government is gross!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u312	Another one with a point of fact... [[Ambassador Okamura from the pitch outside the microphone: I'm applying too.]] Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. [[Opposite Members are still surrounded by a counter.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u313	Thank you, Mr President. There's one thing that needs to be said on the microphone. The responsibility for blocking the House is not for Members, but for the incompetent leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, headed by the President, whose main task is to maintain balance in the House! [[He speaks very emotionally.]] This is the first time in history when this is not done and Members are normally attacked, ridiculed, and so happens to the parties' Presidents! It's unacceptable to me. And to me, Madam President, through Mr President, you are an appeal! Get up and get out of here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u314	Mr Tomio Okamura is next in line with the factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, this is a violation of the House's Rules of Procedure Act, a political situation which seems to me to be an unconstitutional political coup on the part of a government five-wheeler. We are legitimately elected here by millions of citizens together, there are two opposition parties and we want to express ourselves! [[In an elevated voice.]] We have preferential rights in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we want to speak here to the point, we want to protect citizens, three million citizens against robbing their pensions, to which they are legitimately entitled under the law! Let us speak! Let us defend the citizens here and stop bending the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic! You can't get us out of here! Feel free to send those antons and the police here, whatever censorship you're trying to set on the citizens here, but we're gonna defend freedom and democracy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-03-ps2021-055-04-001-001.u316	Thank you for your performance. Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, now duly signed up for the detailed debate. The Member is present in the Chamber. Ambassador, please step on the microphone... [[Opposite Members are still occupying the rhetorical site.]] You're in the O.R., I'm calling you to get out properly on the microphone and let the others loosen their seat around the pitch. [[Screams from the diaper.]] I beg you, colleagues, to allow individual Members to speak, just as Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Taťána Malá, could speak, so I am asking you at present to allow Mr Ladislav Oklešťek to speak. [[Members remain in the rhetorical area.]] Okay, I'm putting you on... [[Rush in the hall, screams out of the diaper.]] Now, as the next enrollment, it is Mrs Eva Fialová. And I ask Mrs Eva Fialová to take the floor. [[Mr President, I am asking you to let me speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] Mr President, the Chamber of Deputies, which is a sovereign, has approved a resolution that limits... [[Ambassador Babiš calls towards the President, off the microphone: Totalitarianism! You're not a suvren. It's a dirty totality, nothing else.]] At present, Mrs Eva Fialová is registered, and I am asking her to appear. [[Ambassador Babiš is calling from the rhetoric towards the President, off the microphone: I am asking you to go away! - Laughing Members around the fairground.]] You may object to the President's procedure. [[Mr Babiš is calling from the rhetoric towards the President, off the microphone: I am giving suggestions to you to go away, to let me speak.]] I'm currently... [[Mr. Babiš is calling from the pitch off the mic: Here! This! - It shows a copy of the Rules of Procedure towards the President.]] Mr. Chairman, you no longer have... [[Member Babiš calls from the pitch, off the microphone: You can't change the laws any way you want!]] ... currently... you've spent two or five minutes of your time and... [[Ambassador Babiš calls to the President, off the microphone: You've exhausted yourself! Go home! The Members of the Blocking Rectangular are applauding.]] I'm asking Mrs Eva Fialová to step forward. [[Member Babiš calls to the President, off the microphone: I am asking you to go home!]] And I ask that you respect the Rules of Procedure for Mrs Eva Fialová to speak. [[The call of Mr Okamura.]] I ask you, Mrs Fialová, to speak with a proper application. [[Opposite Members are further blocking the town hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, allow the lady to step on the microphone. [[Rush in the hall.]] Madame, you're in the room, I'll turn on the time machine, because even the previous Members could get on the microphone. It's up to you to come and talk on the microphone. The previous Members have been given the opportunity to... [[Mrs. Purple is not coming. Members are still blocking the pitch. Vice-President PS Richter is speaking outside the microphone with the President.]] Time's up. Mrs Romana Fischerová is next on the list. I cannot predict how the meeting of the club presidents and the House's leadership may result. This means that I will ask Mrs Romana Fischerová to speak in the context of a detailed debate and to sign up for her amendments. And you, colleagues, please release the seat around the counter and allow the lady to step forward. [[No response.]] Since the previous Members have been allowed to appear on the microphone, I consider that possible in this case, and I am turning on the timer for the lady. And I ask you, colleagues, to allow her to speak, to make her contribution in the context of a detailed debate and to sign up for the amendments. [[Opposite Members continue to surround the speaker's counter.]] [[22.30 hours]] I ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet. [[The ear in the room doesn't stop. A Member of Okamura is reporting from the crowd around the pitch.]] I am trying, Mr President, to provide you with an appropriate environment so that you can speak and remain calm in the Chamber of Deputies. All we have to do first is wait for Mrs Fischerová's time to run out, and then I will give you your factual remark... Ladies and gentlemen - President of the Chamber of Deputies - I will ask for your attention to understand what is going to be said. I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to listen well. The President of the Chamber of Deputies convenes a great grémium with the participation of the chairmen of the MPs and political parties and the movement in the room where the grémium meets as a standard. On the basis of the agreement, I will suspend the negotiations for half an hour, and I have other speakers marked, that is, I am interrupting the negotiations for half an hour until 23.02 hours.
