ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your identification cards, or to tell me who is asking to issue a replacement card, as Mr Jiří Horák has already done, who will vote with card number 27. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 53rd meeting on 9 February of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Milada Voborská and a Member of Ondřej kolář. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm not registering any other proposal. I therefore initiate the vote on the proposals submitted for the designation of verifiers. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 1 registered 115 present, for 105, against no one. I am therefore of the opinion that we are the verifiers of the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies appointed Members of Ondřej kolář and of Milada Voborská. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they asked to apologise for their absence from the hearing by the following Members: Bartošek Jan for the whole working day, Bělica Josef for the whole working day, Bělohlávková Romana within 15 hours for the whole working time, Benešík Ondřej for the whole králíček Robert for personal reasons, Blaha Stanislav for the whole working day, Fischerová Romana for the whole working day for health Vondrák, Naiclerová Josef for the Teleky Ivo Róbert for health Radek, Heller Šimon until 14.30 for the Pavel working time, Jáč Ivan for the whole Šimek David for the whole medical reasons, Jílková Marie for the Jan working Kubík, Kobza Jiří from 16 hours for the whole working day for the whole day for health volný, kolovratník Martin for the whole day for the whole Svoboda Bohuslav for the whole medical reasons, Rabíček's sitting day for the žáček Pavel day for the whole working day. From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír from the whole day for health reasons, Baxa Martin from 18:00 for work reasons, Langšádlová Helena until 15:30 for work reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for work reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for working reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole day for reasons of foreign travel, Šalomoun Michal from the whole day for personal reasons. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 53rd meeting, as stated on the invitation. First of all, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so I can introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium has agreed, because there are many changes. Firstly, we propose to exclude paragraphs 4 and 103 from the proposal for a programme, namely the House's print 323, the Government's bill repealing the law on agricultural stock certificates and agricultural public warehouses, second and third reading. Secondly, we propose to line up points from the Act block - first reading as follows: paragraph 8, House printing 350, draft law on compensation for the effects of the covid-19 epidemic; paragraph 9, House printing 360, Government draft law on public auctions; Paragraph 10, House printing 361, Government draft law on public auctions - related; paragraph 11, House printing 362, amendment to the Law on seed and seed circulation; paragraph 12, House printing 366, amendment on road traffic; paragraph 14, House printing 371, Government proposal on preventive restructuring; paragraph 15, House printing 372, Government bill - insolvency law; paragraph 16, House printing 377, Government bill on extraordinary remission of social security premiums; paragraph 20, House printing 383, Amendment on Criminal Register; paragraph 21, House printing 384, Government proposal on extraordinary forgiveness and termination of certain tax debts; paragraph 22, House printing 385, Amendment on value added tax; paragraph 13, House printing 367, Government draft law on management related to deep-sea radioactive waste storage, and further according to the draft programme. Thirdly, we propose the following procedure for this week: today, Tuesday, February 21, we will discuss the points of the Law block - first reading in the proposed order. The 53rd meeting would be suspended until tomorrow, Wednesday, February 22nd, and we would continue to do so about 7 minutes after the 54th meeting was concluded or interrupted, but no later than about 14 o'clock. Tomorrow, Wednesday, February 22, the 54th meeting will begin at 9 o'clock. About 7 minutes after the end of the meeting, or the interruption of the 54th meeting, but no later than 14 o'clock, we would continue the 53rd meeting. If the 53rd meeting were to continue before 14:00, we would focus on the following points from the third reading block: paragraph 96, House Press 238, the amendment on investment companies; paragraph 95, House Press 48, Parliamentary Amendment - Civil Code. Furthermore, we would eventually continue with the points from the Law block - first reading. On Thursday, 23 February, after discussing paragraph 129, i.e. the Government's replies to written interpelations, we propose to discuss points from the Act block - second reading: point 1, House press 288, amendment on the protection of employees in default of the employer; point 2, House press 289, amendment on pedagogical workers; point 3, House press 311, amendment on the protection of public health; point 5, House press 346, amendment on electronic communications. On Friday 24 February, we would discuss point 105 of the third reading block, House press 374, on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. If on Wednesday, 22 February, the 54th meeting, Parliament's Press 263, Czech Television, third reading, we would continue with other points according to the draft agenda. If the 54th meeting is not exhausted on Wednesday, 22 February, i.e. by the House Press 263, we would continue this meeting immediately after discussing paragraph 105. About 7 minutes after the end of the meeting, or the interruption of the 54th meeting, but no later than 14 o'clock, we would continue the adjourned 53rd meeting again. [[14.10 hours]] At the beginning of each meeting day, you will be informed how both meetings will be interrupted following the scheduled programme, because we are aware that this is complicated. Information at the end. on 10. 2. at the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, item 6 was discussed, House press 374, second reading. So cut it, please, there is no need to vote on this anymore. Well, I'm gonna ask you, colleagues, to keep you quiet, because on my part, it's all on the show. I will ask once again to move your conversations into the foyer so that we can hear the proposals that some Members have already made. President Jan Jakob is the first to be entered with priority rights, followed by President Schillerová. Once again, I would urge you to move your conversations either to the lobby, or to complete the end and to pay attention to the negotiations, no matter what anyone proposes. I'm really sorry, colleagues, but the noise level is still too high. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of all five coalition clubs, I would like to make the following proposals for adapting the agenda of this 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, the first point is to include a point of shortening the deadline between first and second reading at the House of Press 368, which is a government bill that changes some laws in the field of defence. Next, in the block of first reading the following adaptations in this order: as the first point of the block of first reading include point 23, House printing 387, which is the Government's proposal for the Asylum Act. In addition to point 22 of the programme, include the following points in this order: paragraph 17, House press 378, which is a government draft constitutional law amending the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on Security; paragraph 18, which is the House press 379, the Government Bill on Election Governance; paragraph 19, House press 380, which is a government bill relating to the Act on Election Governance. For this item include the original point 44, the House press 39, the Senate Bill on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and the election of the President of the Republic. It's a matter of electoral law, it's a correspondence choice. For this point, include the original point 7, which is the House's press 331, a government bill laying down some additional prerequisites for the performance of certain functions in state bodies and organisations. That was the last draft from the first reading block. On Wednesday, then firmly place two electoral points, namely point 106, Proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the Czech Radio, and paragraph 107, Proposal for the election of a member of the Council of Czech Television for a vacancy with a term of office until 27 March 2026. Last but not least, I make a proposal for the inclusion of the item for Friday as the second item of the meeting, including the Election Point 108, which is the Proposal for the election of the members of the Czech Press Office Council. Even after consulting the President of the Election Commission, the electoral blocs are divided into two days, because one of the candidates is running for two of the councils, so that we can avoid any irregularities so that he is not elected to both councils, which is not permitted by the law. Thank you, these are all proposals on behalf of five coalition clubs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. That is why President Schillerová is now registered. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down. The President of Okamura follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to propose the inclusion of a point An over-excited state of legislative emergency, and I'm here to justify it in detail. Last night at 17.55 pm, we learned by e-mail from the President of the Chamber of Deputies that the Czech Republic appears to be in a situation where the security of the state is significantly threatened, while it has to do with some economic losses and so on. I do not want to downplay this, in no way, but in a situation that is out of line with the normal course of legislative and political processes, this is typically the case, for example, in natural disasters, for example, we experienced it during the previous parliamentary term. That is why the President of the Chamber of Deputies had to declare a legislative emergency, starting yesterday and ending March 22nd? The state of legislative emergency, as we all know, is an extraordinary parliamentary procedure with an important constitutionally legal dimension, in which there is also a significant restriction on parliamentary, committee and, of course, logically, opposition rights. The state of legislative emergency, as we all know, is conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances which threaten the security of the state or the right and freedom of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, let us say, please, what is the reality. The Czech Republic is not plagued by any natural disaster, we do not resist the explosive spread of insidious contagious diseases, on our borders, thank God, enemy soldiers are not clever. No, the only disaster we face is the unprecedented incompetence and dilettanteism of this government. [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] Because what happened? At the beginning of this situation there was nothing other than the notorious resistance of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura to real numbers than the stubborn refusal to count the real and mandatory expenditures of the state into budget expenditure. For the five-calice government, it is much more important to have a nice Baťa number 295 billion deficits in the draft budget than to be responsible for projecting the minimum mandatorial spending of the state, where extraordinary statutory pension valorisation belongs, of course. Do you remember me standing here at every beginning of the meeting and talking about it? Where, Minister, do you have the $20 billion - it would have been more - for extraordinary pension valorization? Where do you keep it, and so on? ticho. The minister's either not here or he's coming when the vote's over. [[14.20 hours]] Can you imagine planning a family budget without counting a mortgage, rent, or any other of your mandatory expenses? Such a budget would certainly do you more harm than good, and you would find that it would be better to throw it in the trash and start counting honestly. But that's exactly what happened to the Treasury Secretary and this government with the state budget. Although you knew very well that January inflation would not fall below 5%, and thus you will be obliged by law to pay extraordinary pension valorisation in June, you did not put a crown on it in the budget. You all raised your hand for the budget. I warned here earlier, I made it clear, the National Budget Board brought it to your attention. Yet you have raised your hand clearly for this peacock, dishonest budget. So Zbyněk Stanjura replied with a jargon that he would find the money somehow. His responses to the Ministry of Finance press conference on 3 January are still available on the Ministry of Finance website and traceable in public resources. There is no doubt that, in fact, he already knew very well that the government would touch the elderly's money, and so it should now be. That is why and only because of the state of legislative emergency, just because, for nothing else. Legal conditions are not fulfilled. On 8 December 2022, the National Budget Board, an independent institution, issued an opinion in which the government pointed out that extraordinary Valorisation would take place and there is not a crown in the budget. At the same time, the National Budget Board warned that, given the high amount to be spent on extraordinary valuation, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it could be covered by savings under other budget appropriations. I repeat, that's when the National Budget Board counted 20 billion. On December 8, 2022, I warned you that apart from the lack of funds for extraordinary pension valorization, Zbyněk Stanjura's budget does not count on another 31 billion for SFDI's investment. On 11 January of the same year, i.e. 2022, I asked for an extraordinary inclusion of a point called The budgetary chaos of Minister Stanjura and I justified it by the fact that the real deficit of the state budget is about 100 billion larger than the PR marketing budget presented, approved by the government of the five-calice. In particular, I have named everything that you now unprecedentedly justify the state of legislative emergency. On January 12, I interviewed Prime Minister Petr Fiala asking for an explanation of the serious shortcomings in the way in which the National Budget Act for 2023 was drawn up. I drew attention to an extremely alarming situation where the Ministry of Finance did not, of course, count the objective and quite obvious expenditure for tens of billions of crowns into the State Budget Act. In a similar vein, the President of the National Budget Board, Mojmír Hampl, commented. I asked whether the most important law determining the economic and political constraints of the government should be seen as a piece of paper where the missing tens of billions are not worth the attention of the Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, from the Prime Minister's response to this interpellation, it was quite obvious that he was either unaware or aware of the severity of the problem, but deliberately pretending that there was no problem. Today we see how he chose a short-sighted and irresponsible strategy. On January 17, 2023, when we proposed to the government to be distrusted, I warned you here at this desk about accounting tricks that you would inevitably get there. I called them something that I am definitely not going to accept, what we have to do with the Committee on Budgets, and I pointed out that we are considering submitting a complaint to the SAO. I said at the time, quoting my words: "The state budget is not a piece of paper, but it is the law of the year. Moreover, it is impossible for tens of billions to sit there in January. Such forgery of fiscal evidence could result in a threat to the legitimacy of the Czech Republic not only with international institutions but also with the reputation of the Czech Republic with our creditors. It is a red line that no finance minister has yet crossed, and I will demand that these irregularities, in the range exceeding CZK 150 billion, be explained to the Chamber of Deputies. It is not possible to stand idly by as the budget process in the hands of a five-wheeler loses its original purpose and abandons and abandons the principle of fidelity and the truth of the budget. Let us not forget that the state budget is adopted in the form of law and the laws must be respected. But since the beginning of the budget, the five-wheelers know that they will not be able to implement this budget, and that is completely unacceptable. I'm a lawyer, and for me, compliance with the law is completely indisputable." The end of my quote. Elections were torn through the curtains, and we suddenly learn that each pensioner is to be reduced by an average of CZK 7,000 this year. Your cabinet was just waiting for the presidential election to end. Because you had a legitimate fear that this outrage would affect their outcome. So much for the real reasons why a state of legislative emergency has been declared. The state of legislative emergency was announced only to close our mouths and your incompetence and incompetence in drawing up the state budget at the last minute saved by pushing through a shameful amendment to the law, which you will take away from every pensioner in the Czech Republic on average CZK 7,000 only this year, a disgraceful amendment that you justify with an absurd claim that you need to adjust the valorisation scheme, because the creator of the valorisation mechanism did not count on such high inflation. For the record, pension valorization occurs because the government has totally underestimated the fight against inflation. It has fallen asleep in the ceiling of prices for energy producers, thereby exposing us to the highest annual increase in electricity prices in the EU. It did not, on the proposal of the ANO movement, temporarily reduce the VAT on food and thus make it more than 25 per cent more expensive. [[Mrs Schiller has been silent because of the noise in the hall, which calmed down immediately.]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u5	It works best, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u6	Let us not forget, therefore, if this government has the audacity to talk about any threat to budgetary stability due to the legal claim of pensioners to extraordinary valorisation, that only through inflation did the Minister of Finance choose from last year's citizens by CZK 137 billion, and the state's revenue is growing at a record rate thanks to inflation this year. And those who are most affected by this increase are the seniors. After all, what do the seniors feel more sensitive than the price of food, the rising cost of housing or medicine? Neither can they escape, and both are the main reasons why the Czech Republic has the last more than a year of record inflation, the fifth highest in the European Union. Instead of sharing his inflationary income in accordance with the law with the pensioners, the state intends to unconstitutionally amend the law, pushed through an unconstitutional state of legislative emergency, at the last moment, to be ripped off by the public. But the seniors are not responsible for government mistakes, and it is not possible for them to pay hard. [[14.30 hours]] This government approach to 2.7 million citizens, as well as the way in which it draws up the state budget, is a red line that we will certainly not accept as opposition. The claim for exceptional valorisation has already been made and now it is just running out of time. This period shall expire in June. The government's attempt to enforce a non-constitutional amendment to the law, which is intended to reduce the benefits of pensions forever and to send tens of thousands to the employment office, will prevent, despite the purposefully announced state of legislative emergency, which aims to minimise our opposition powers. This isn't just about seniors anymore. Who's next? Who else will pay for this government's incompetence? Who else should follow the law if the government doesn't? We will try and do everything we can to force this cabinet to account and use all the power we have gained in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies thanks to the voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u7	Please specify to me when you would like to include it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u8	There's one more thing I'd like to say. I would like to call on you, Madam President, through you, to be exactly according to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to call on you to please justify to this Chamber of Deputies why you have declared a state of legislative emergency. What are you leaning on? I read in the justification system that the government sent there. It's about 16 lines, if I count correctly. I certainly don't see the reasons. So please, I invite you to come before us, by your means, I call on you to explain these reasons to us so that we can understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, too. [[Applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] But I'm gonna ask you to specify when you want to include it, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u10	You're right, Madam President, that was in the heat of the fight. So, of course, this is so important that I want to include it as the first item of today's meeting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. The President-in-Office of Okamura, therefore, has now signed up, followed with the priority right by Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I on behalf of the SPD would like to propose an extraordinary item on the House's agenda for today's meeting called the Fialův Government wants to rob all pension recipients of part of their pensions. And now I'd like to justify it. It is, of course, a disgrace that we will fight hard. The SPD will do obstruction in this context in the House. We're gonna file a constitutional complaint, and even if we're gonna stay in the House for a few days, we're gonna stop it. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS wants to force forcefully enforce a retroactive and grossly asocial reduction in the valorisation of pensions. He is preparing a special law for further adjustment of conditions and parameters of June's extraordinary pension valorization, which he wants to enforce at an emergency meeting in the House next week on 28 February. This is a procedure which, in the opinion of the SPD, is contrary to the Constitution, which is why the SPD will file a complaint with the Constitutional Court. We are also ready to build in the House because we care about our pensioners, while Petr Fiala and the government's five-calice ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates throw the retired overboard. This concerns not only old-age pensions. This also applies to disability pensions, widow's pensions and orphan's pensions. This is an unacceptable effort by the Fialův Government to significantly economically and socially harm our seniors, disabled people, widows, widows and orphans, especially the low-income ones. It's a total disgrace and procedure that can be compared to stealing, stealing in broad daylight. According to the legal rules in force, since this June the contribution of pensions should be increased due to price increases for the period from last July to this January, i.e. due to inflation, to which the notabene government is still involved, the average pension of CZK 1,770 per month should be increased according to the law in force. However, the Purple Government wants to increase the average monthly pension by only CZK 760 per month, which would deprive the recipient of all pensions in the Czech Republic on average by more than CZK 1,000 per month. Save on pensioners who can't defend themselves, save on pensioners who have worked their whole lives honestly and paid compulsory taxes and insurance premiums, save on disabled fellow citizens, save on widows, widows and orphans, that is incredibly insolence from the government. Here I would like to mention the comparison further, because the Fialův Government has currently spent CZK 28.5 billion on Ukraine while saying that approximately CZK 30 billion is missing for our beneficiaries, for pensioners, for Czech widows, orphans, for disabled citizens, for old-age pensioners. So, yes, the Fialův government and the five-calice have chosen Ukrajinec and have, of course, thrown our citizens overboard completely. And we say it's wrong for the SPD. It's wrong, it's enough. And I have to say that this is not only the reason, but I will also remind ours - or not ours, because it is not our Prime Minister, Petr Fiala, it is not the Prime Minister of the SPD - but how this lying liar, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who was lyingly preaching, reported in public last November, quote: "This government will not increase pension age." Prime Minister Petr Fiala's quote. And he also said, quote, "Valorisation is not compromised. A mechanism is set up to valorize pensions according to the law." End of Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala's quote from ODS, a lying liar. And today, the Fialův Government, or yesterday, decided to reduce pension balances in breach of the law in force and, at the same time, proposes an increase in retirement age to 68 years. So the Czech Republic is ruled by a live liar who lies to millions of people, and he is the prime minister of the elected ODS coalition, TOP 09, Pirates, STAN and KDU-ČSL, and none of these parties mind. None of the 108 MPs for this five-police government don't mind that their Prime Minister is lying live. Then why did he say that? Why does he say that in public three months ago? Why is he lying? Why did he trick millions of people, widows, orphans, disabled fellow citizens, seniors? She lies to their eyes, with a smile. I saw the videos. It's incredible what a bunch of people are in charge here. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] The SPD movement, of course, will certainly not support the legalization of theft of our pensioners and we will do everything we can to prevent them from entering into force. This government of the proposed measure is, in addition to its sociality, in our opinion, at the limit of constitutionality or perhaps even beyond it, because the pensioners were entitled to the valorisation in the legally envisaged form clearly before the government's proposed regulation was approved. And now let's look at this point that I'm proposing, what are the priorities of the Fialův government, because she's not working, she's working in a different direction. So Fialův's five-wheeler, Secretary of Defense Černochová, Secretary of War and her appointed Chief of Staff Řehka, is talking about selective mobilisation, and basically he's already writing me a huge number of people who are afraid of bringing the Czech Republic into war. Yes, the Fialův government wants to drag us into war, they want us to be part of the war. This is completely unacceptable for us, people are afraid. And really, you're straining the string of fear and the haunting to the max. We don't want to be at war, it's not our war. Have Prime Minister Fiala stop lying. Again, he lied publicly in the media last year when he said, and we all heard it on TV that the Czech Republic is at war. And in this sense, Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS also proceeds. And that is one of the priorities of Petr Fiala's government - dragging us into war and scaring people into fear. [[14.40 hours]] And another priority, we have here now on the agenda of the meeting, today's meeting: tomorrow you want to dominate politically Czech TV and Czech Radio, put your councillors there, basically only your councillors. So instead of improving the lives of citizens, you cut pensions, you want to raise taxes, you want to put us in a war here, you're scaring the war over and over again, people are scared. You're also pushing the correspondence option program because your preferences have fallen to 20 percent, I mean government confidence - well, it was a little over 20 percent based on that survey we last saw in mainstream media. So instead of starting to work for the citizens, you want to bend the electoral law so that it can be manipulated to be contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly states that elections are to be secret, which cannot be guaranteed for a correspondence election, logically. And those are your priorities, those are the priorities of the Fialův Government for the citizens. So I'm saying again, and I think we've had enough of the Ukrainianization of Czech society. They've been writing us mass... well, they've been writing us citizens for at least six months, and really massively, I suppose they're SPD voters to a large extent, but I think they're voters of other parties who have had enough of it, the way you guys flooded the place with Ukrajinec - doctors, yes, the behavior inadequate to women, I've got a lot of these impulses that they don't even know how to treat women, they have other manners, and the situation in society is escalating and dissatisfaction is really rising, the string is getting more and more tense. It's really starting to get all over the place, that Petr Fiala's government meeting. We, of course, as the SPD, will now organize another demonstration of a pro-government... anti-government demonstration, of course, an anti-government demonstration, we will continue with political pressure, because you really put millions of people here in completely impossible living situations. The single moms write us, they don't have money, they don't know how to make a living in a decent way, because they don't even have money for their children, and you're throwing money away in a place where it doesn't help Czech citizens at all. So I would like to repeat that the first point of this meeting, which would like to propose as an extraordinary point, is a point called the Fialův Government wants to rob all pension recipients of part of their pensions. As the second item in today's House of Deputies' meeting, I would like to propose a point called the Fialův Government has swindled voters and is preparing an increase in taxes. And now I'm going to justify it. The Ministry of Finance said that during the spring, specific parameters of the so-called consolidation package in the state budget will be presented in order to reduce its deficit by 70 billion, as well as the representatives of the Fialův Government are already talking about what the content should be. It will probably be about increasing various taxes in particular. Ministers say that you want to increase personal income tax, that is, to all working people, you want to increase property tax, for example he said these two things, Minister and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka in an interview for News. You also want to increase VAT, the lowest rate of 10 per cent, so you want to increase baby needs, you want to increase water and sewerage, you want to make the draft beer more expensive, you want to increase food and so on, books. You also want to increase the insurance contributions of tradesmen, so you want to eliminate businessmen here in the Czech Republic. Furthermore, you want to abolish state support for building savings, which means that today the situation is such - to this end - that housing for citizens is virtually unavailable, for working citizens, even given the level of mortgage rates, but you still want to destroy citizens more and increase their real estate tax, and you also want to significantly reduce the support for pension savings. If I stop by the real estate tax briefly. Well, I must say that the increase in property tax will, of course, have a much worse impact than it can ever be assumed by a layman's view that, for example, in rural areas, it is a rural problem, where a number of older citizens, who are retired, live in their family houses and real estate. They can't come out now, you're gonna cut their pensions now, which means you're gonna rob them of the money they were supposed to get under the law in June's valorization, and now you're gonna increase their real estate tax at the family houses or at the apartments where the seniors live. This means that you are completely putting low-income and socially endangered groups of citizens, including senior citizens, from both sides, into a completely impossible situation. it is, of course, totally unacceptable to the SPD, and from the perspective of the SPD, it is also a fraud on voters, because you promised not to raise taxes. In all these cases, these are fundamental changes compared to the government's programming statement, on the basis of which the Government has received the confidence of the House - of course, the trust of the five-calice Members, because we have never voted for this government, for its trust, I think that is quite clear, and it turns out that we have done very well that we knew exactly what this government will do, pirát and Co. Just to remind you - the structure of the state budget has absolutely no relation to the conflict in Ukraine to which the government blames these actions. Stop lying, stop lying. Here, Prime Minister Fiala is always lying in the media, always saying: Ukraine, we all know - and these are Eurostat figures - that the only country that has increased debt in the third quarter of last year - these are the last figures - throughout the European Union, is the Czech Republic. That means you're the worst government of all, the most incompetent, and you don't know which one's beating. This means, if Ukraine were the reason, that debt would increase in other countries, but the Czech Republic is the only one where debt to GDP increased. That means you're the worst, so stop trying to blame it on Ukraine, because it has nothing to do with it, because citizens don't even believe it anymore, I suppose I'm watching the debate on social networks. So you're putting it on something that has nothing to do with it. The systemic changes that would lead to the long-term removal of the budget deficit are completely different - and we have already said so, for example, the volume of necessary state bureaucracy needs to be reduced, but you are not doing that, on the contrary, you have set up a new office for a billion with more than 200 employees in order for the Pirates to have some political newsstands. Furthermore, of course, there is a need for real pension reform to be adopted in the form of support for working families and birth rates in working families, and not merely raising taxes and levies for our citizens, employees, businessmen, employers, which, of course, the SPD is rejecting. That is why we think that the government should come before the House and ask for confidence again, because your proposals are contrary to your programming statement and contrary to what you promised citizens. So as a second point - and by the way, I will add one more seed bead that the government of Petr Fiala from ODS intends to break other points from its own programming statement as well as the pre-election promises of government parties, because, for example, the government also wants to withdraw from the plan to reduce 2 percentage points of social insurance contributions for employers. This reduction could lead to a desirable reduction in labour taxation, as well as an increase in employment to standard employment contracts, and thus to an increase in pension insurance collection. So, of course, the violation on your part, the violations against the voters who voted for you, is a series, and it's obvious that many of your original voters are already seeing it. As a second point, extraordinarily, at this meeting, I propose that the Fialův government swindle voters and prepares for tax increases. [[14.50 hours]] As a third point, I would like to propose an extraordinary point at this meeting with the name of the Purple Government in favour of the liquidation of automobileism ordered from Brussels. And now I'd like to justify it. Of course, because of what the Purple Government has supported here and supported it in the European Union, cars will only be for the richest. Last week, the European Parliament finally approved a new zero emission standard which includes, inter alia, a ban on the sale of new cars with internal combustion engines in EU Member States after 2035. This measure, together with the upcoming Euro 7 emission standard, will have devastating effects especially on the automotive industry, which is the backbone of the Czech economy and accounts for around 10 percent of Czech GDP. It will also have a very negative impact on economic prosperity and employment, which means the demise of hundreds of thousands of follow-up jobs, and on the standard of living of our citizens. This was supported for the Czech Republic by the liquidation standard in previous votes at the meeting of the Council of the European Union at the time of the Czech Presidency, at the time of the Czech failed Presidency, as well as by representatives of the current Fialův Government, for example when it voted there and the Environment Minister Anna Hubáčková of KDU-ČSL was sent there to vote on it. And now the government MEPs elected for the Pirates and the TOP 09 also supported this. The MEPs elected for the SPD voted against, of course. This Fialův Government's enforced measure will also make passenger cars more expensive, which will thus become a luxury for the narrow richest layer of society, and will become financially unavailable for most citizens. Purple's government has made car availability a luxury. By the way, based on what you've voted for, what you've made, of course, against the will of the SPD, small personal cars have to go up by some maybe 60 to 100,000 crowns, and more expensive cars have to go up by hundreds of thousands. Cars are already getting expensive because of Green Deal and all that. The standard for banning the sale of cars with internal combustion engines is part of the Green Deal EU programme, which was approved by then Prime Minister Babiš for the ANO movement and supported by Prime Minister Fiala from ODS and his entire government. Of course, these steps are rejected by the SPD. So, as the third point, I propose an extraordinary point in this meeting: the Purple Government has supported the destruction of cars ordered from Brussels. And it's really a problem, because one thing is Prague - which the Pragueans also go to cottages and they need to move cars, but look at rural regions. Are they supposed to ride when something happens at night, like a health problem for Grandma, Grandpa, should they ride a bike? Or are they supposed to be waiting for some kind of shared transportation? People just need cars, they need to go to work in the morning, they need to go by the three villages next door or to the nearby town to work, parents from families and so on, and you basically completely destroy the standard of living in the Czech Republic. As the fourth extraordinary point of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called Astronomical Acceleration due to the Fialův Government, and I would therefore add to that a justification. Indeed, it is a disgrace to the Fialův Government that food is cheaper in Poland, Austria, and Germany. And, of course, it is a mockery to all the citizens who are being shown here by the newly elected President, Petr Pavel, who has been caught shopping in Poland this weekend, because it is cheaper there. That means, the presidential candidate, the president supported by the Fialův Government Five Coalition, buys himself in Poland, where it's cheaper. He, with his pension in tens of thousands of crowns as a general plus, gets a presidential salary, so hundreds of thousands a month, still goes shopping in Poland, because it's cheaper and it's supported by the Fialův Government itself, which makes this place expensive. Here's how he drinks water and preaches wine. [[Deputy Nacher: Reverse.]] That's incredible - I mean, he drinks wine and he preaches water, sorry, he drinks wine and he preaches water. It is incredible who is here, who will be the president of the Czech Republic here. That's really patriotic behavior. Petr Pavel could also advise citizens who do not live in border regions where he has some cottage that we read in the media, how they are supposed to buy cheaply here because of the Fialův Government, citizens who live in Central Bohemia, citizens who live tens of kilometers from the Polish, German and Austrian border. So it could be the president's advice to citizens about what they're supposed to do, who don't yet have these tens of thousands of retainers like he has a general, they don't have security and stuff to do with the purchases to Poland. This is really completely ridiculous, where the Fialův Government and its supported candidates have gotten us into, in what situation. And by the way, the citizens immediately sent me pictures from Polish social networks, as Polák ridicule Petr Pavel and the Czech Republic, as jokes circulate there, as the Czech president buys cheaply in Poland, who is also supported by the Fialův Government, which does not deal with the price increase here, and has caused it. This really is an incredible situation. It's a shame to be ashamed of this attitude. It's just a completely unprecedented disgraceful situation you're doing here. But back to my proposed point, I'm talking about him continuing his astronomical appreciation for the Fialův government. By the way, I'll go back to Petr Pavel: so instead of him appealing to his friends who supported him in the elections, that means Fialův's five-calice government to invite you to the carpet and tell you to finally deal with the expensive, when we have more expensive food than in Poland, Austria and Germany, so he goes to Poland cheaply. We've really worked it out with Fialův's five-caliber candidate. Growth in inflation has accelerated significantly. Annually, according to current January data, it is 17.5 %. Monthly inflation increased by 6 percent. But the situation is much worse in the year-on-year increase in basic cost of living. Electricity prices increased by 36,4 per cent, natural gas prices by 87 per cent, heat and hot water prices by 44,7 per cent. Astronomically, food has also increased. The price of flour increased by 44,2 %, the price of pigmeat by 36.8%, the price of semi-fat milk by 39.5%, the price of sugar by 84,7%, the price of eggs by 85 percent. That's the result of the Fialův government. Literally catastrophic is the month-on-month increase in electricity prices by 140 percent. This January acceleration is unprecedented in Europe, this needs to be stressed, compared to Europe. The monthly price increase of 6 per cent is clearly the highest of all European countries. And I say again, you should resign. Apart from Slovakia, inflation has not exceeded one percent of the monthly growth anywhere else, and prices have even fallen in many countries. All of these facts confirm that the enormous growth in inflation in the Czech Republic does not have external causes, as Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the ministers of the Fialův Government lie repeatedly, but the main culprit is the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS and its failure to counter price growth with regulatory instruments. It is an incredible disgrace to this government that food is already cheaper in all neighbouring countries than in our country, including Poland or Germany and Austria, where there are three times the income. We offered a solution to the government a long time ago under the SPD. This is mainly about ensuring direct sale of our low-cost electricity without stock exchanges to Czech citizens and companies, and in the short term it is about a significant reduction in so-called price ceilings for electricity and gas and a temporary reduction in value added tax for basic food and medicines to zero. But the Fialův Government ignores these SPD proposals and does not offer any solutions. That's why she should quit. And here I would point out once again that instead of dealing with expensive food - and we're already encouraging you to do this for a year, a year we're calling you to do it, the first time I talked about it here a year ago in winter, more than a year ago in winter, when Polák reduced VAT to zero for selected basic foods, and you did nothing at all. We have the most expensive food in Central Europe, namely, more expensive than in Poland, Austria and Germany. [[15.00 hours]] And what's your priority, I've already talked about it here. Instead of helping people, you lower their pensions, we have the most expensive food, the largest energy prices, while we are an exporter of cheap energy, with us produced cheap energy. But you have a meeting here tomorrow that you want to control politically Czech television to broadcast only pro-government opinions. You want to cut your pensions, that's what you have on the agenda next week - we will, of course, fight against it, I have already talked about it, we will file a constitutional complaint, we will reconstruct - and you want to push forward the correspondence option so that you can manipulate the election, because you're looking for some other voters somewhere. So, of course, this is completely unacceptable for us. And the last point, an extraordinary point, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose a point called Because of the Fialův Government, own housing for workers with average income becomes impossible. So that's the name, and now I'd like to justify it. The government will make the situation worse by raising property tax. The average mortgage rate in the Czech Republic increased to 6.37 percent in February and is thus the highest in the last 20 years. This is an analysis of Fincentrum's Hypoindex. For example: The monthly repayment of the mortgage loan of CZK 3.5 million with a maturity of 25 years has already increased to CZK 23,342, which has increased to approximately CZK 3,850 in the last year alone, which is practically liquidation for thousands of mortgage payers. [[Okay,]] It is also evident that high interest rates have significantly reduced the availability of mortgage loans for a wide range of citizens and families. Getting a mortgage for working with average income is virtually impossible. It is another debacle and the failure of the government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which is the area of housing, which Ivan Bartoš of Pirates is in charge of local development. So, of course, the failure of the entire government, but first of all, the failure of the pirát, because the Ministry of Regional Development - the leader of the Pirates Ivan Bartoš, the minister - did nothing! Nothing! Anyway, he made the situation worse. This is unbelievable. The pirates came to the government and turned out to be dilettants and they didn't really have a solution. On the contrary, Ivan Bartoš of the Pirates and the government of Petr Fiala are going to make the situation even worse by increasing the property tax planned, which will further increase the cost of housing ownership and rental for our citizens. Moreover, the increase in this tax is to be the income of the state budget and not of self-government. The SPD movement has clear recipes to address this unsustainable situation: ceiling mortgage rates, introducing favourable housing loans for working families, or massive state support for new housing at urban and municipal level, including support for cooperative housing. If these changes don't happen, young families, but also generally working families and citizens of the Czech Republic will never get their own housing, and this is, of course, unacceptable for SBD. The government of Petr Fiala and Minister Ivan Bartoš reject these SPD proposals, but at the same time they do not suggest anything positive, so citizens are just wasting their time with this government because they need housing, it costs a great deal of money, but the government does not propose any solution. So as the fifth extraordinary point of today's House meeting, I propose a point called Because of the Purple Government, own housing for workers with average income becomes impossible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u13	So Vice-President Dostálová is now registered and Vice-President Havlíček is also registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, unfortunately today we are coming from my point of view to the totally unacceptable situation that the current five-wheelers are planning to take away the average Czech pensioner only this year by CZK 7 000. I repeat it again, only this year by 7,000 crowns. The primary and main reason for this situation for us is the laxity and irresponsibleness of the current five-calice, which not only does not communicate with the opposition, we have got used to it a little bit, but does not communicate with experts either, because it did not count the extraordinary valorisation of pensions into the state budget. At the same time, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in all committees, we, as the opposition, have warned you that you are missing the money, but the National Budget Board has also warned you that the state budget does not count on tens of billions of crowns needed for extraordinary pension valorisation, despite the fact that it has been known for months that this valorisation will take place and that it is a mandatorial expense. Moreover, the National Budget Board specifically pointed out that, given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it could be covered by savings from other State budget items. Or did the government think that when we approved the state budget in December 2022, when inflation was around 15 percent, that it would be 3% in January? I don't think any government could have assumed that, and that's it!, we have inflation of around 17 percent. Unfortunately, five-wheelers, as in a number of similar situations, did not solve the problem at all, not only knowingly admitting the whole situation, but even creating the situation itself, but today wants to resolve the crisis situation at the expense of a group of our citizens, which is the most vulnerable, which will not defend itself. The government knows that senior citizens will not go out into the streets and protest even if there are 2.5 million. Unfortunately, this population group often lacks the strength to defend itself. And that is why I want to make it clear that we will stand up for this group of people, because she can no longer increase her means of life, and we will fight to eliminate or stop the stupid steps of the government. We do not forget that pensioners have honestly earned their pension through their life's work. And believe me, we actually have one of the longest years worked within the European Union. The valuation of Czech pensions alone by an average of CZK 1,700 is not meant to be a real increase in pensions, but it is only a nominal increase in the amount that corresponds to the loss of value, the real value of pensioners' income, it is simply the result of inflation. So we're not raising their pensions, but we're making up for what's going on around them. Moreover, it is quite clear that inflation, which is a dynamic energy and food price, affects low-income population groups more significantly than high-income groups and retirement households are, by their very nature, always a low-income population. Moreover, it is also quite clear that pensioners will no longer improve their own activities. And sending pensioners for welfare benefits makes no sense, because let's answer the question of what logic does it make to cut pensions on the one hand and send them for social benefits on the other hand? It's the left and right pocket, we're still talking about the state budget. On the contrary, social benefits, which, of course, lead to digitization, are unacceptable for pensioners to no longer have to go to the authorities. Why do you think old people don't ask for a living allowance? Well, because they're not able to orient themselves at such a high age in the process of digitalization, and rather than really embarrass themselves and deal with these things through social benefits, they prefer not to ask for benefits at all, and that, of course, leads to the living of individual pensioners. And in this situation, which we all realize is that the digitized world we're actually going to, and it's definitely right for a productive part of the population, it's totally unacceptable for pensioners, and they're often not able to climb this wall that we're building for them. It is also essential that the period for which valorisation is calculated has already ended, i.e. the entitlement to that extraordinary valorisation has already arisen to the pensioners. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there's only a time limit for the valorisation itself to take place, that's all. That means, if we're talking really legally and legitimately about cutting pensions today, we're clearly acting retroactively. That means that we can't say today that we're going to cut their pensions this year because it's already happened, it's just already happened, and we're now figuring out what time it's due. And what are we dealing with here? Well, that Minister Stanjura forgot to put the money in the budget. [[15.10 hours]] Please, a legislative emergency: there are three reasons for a legislative emergency. First of all, it's security. I don't think there's a threat to security for our seniors here. Second, it's health. Probably won't endanger the health of our elderly. The maximum risk could be that by not increasing them and valorizing pensions, because everything around them is more expensive, so of course they'll have less money for drugs, but I don't think there's really any reason for a legislative emergency. And the third time, it's economic damage. And I ask, who caused the economic damage? Retirement? You can't be serious. The economic damage, if you play it on this, is therefore about the personal responsibility of the Minister of Finance and the personal responsibility of the Minister of Finance. He was supposed to put it in the state budget to valorize pensions. And I ask again: did Minister Stanjura think that when inflation is 16 per cent in December, 15 per cent that it will be 3 per cent in January? If so, I don't think he really stands up for his post properly. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] To illustrate the situation, too, I must remember that in 2022, early retirement applicants had swamped the Social Security Administration. I mean, who applied for early retirement in 2022 today has several thousand more per month than if he had received a proper pension in 2023. You're asking how that's possible? Because it is completely illogical that anyone who works longer and applies for a pension when he is entitled to it will be worse. I'd be happy to answer that. I'll talk again about laxity, this time the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This situation, when Minister Jurečka has burdened the state budget at a time when he wants to cut legal valorisation, is completely unacceptable. Early pensions are options, I do not question that at all, but it is expected, and it is right and logical that such pensions will be smaller. But the opposite has become true and the culmination of this bizarre and completely unreasonable situation is yesterday's announcement of a state of legislative emergency. When I look at it from the point of view of the state of legislative emergency and what the government is trying to play, that is, economic damage, possible economic damage, but again with a giant question mark, because how could this economic damage arise when everyone had to know that pensions were to be valued in December? So the Minister would not even have to deal with this, but if he had not forgotten to ask the European Union for 53 billion for European projects in 2022, that is the so-called certification of projects. So, in fact, the situation arose by forgetting the Minister, the government forgot, the 53 billion went out of taxpayers' money instead of pouring European Union money into the budget. But 54 billion - look at how much this is going to be about in June, which is roughly about 30 to 34 billion, so he would be in a good place if he properly asked the European Union for that money. Given that I consider it absolutely essential that we discuss this issue because the legislative emergency was announced on Sunday, so from yesterday there is basically a legislative emergency, we should probably talk first about whether it is legitimate and whether the government has taken all the steps to avoid having to do so so that it does not have to reach for pension cuts. And I am asking - and I would like it to be listed today as the first item called Pension Reduction - to answer five questions. In my opinion, we as opposition, but the whole public deserves answers to five questions. The first question is: will the Minister of Finance draw personal responsibility from the situation? Because he has caused the government, by extension of the House, to deal with one point here, to declare a legislative emergency, and that is economic damage. So it'll lead to the consequences of who caused the economic damage? Who? So I would like to hear the answer from the Minister of Finance if he feels responsible for this, that this situation has even occurred and that this is what we are discussing at all on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Question two: Has the government taken all possible measures to bail out the state budget in a way other than reducing pensions? And here, of course, there are a few questions again. We have a chance to freeze our salaries. Did the government do it? Has it frozen the salaries of politicians as suggested by the opposition by Mr Babiš's proposal? No, we've raised them pretty well, we've got incredible salaries, but we're gonna cut our retirement pensions. Second thing. Did the government deal with restitution? Why are the operating costs of restitution - this is not the case, where we will valorize about inflation, whatever it is? But the first step that this government will take is that it will touch money from low-income groups of our pensioners. It would still be understandable if she said: Yes, first we will take all steps to avoid having to touch the elderly - but this government goes the way that it will take the first step. It's the first step in all this to fill the state register. The third reason is: has the Minister of Finance secured accelerated certification from European funds so that the money spent by Czech taxpayers is returned as quickly as possible from European funds? And here again, I must remind you that only our government has negotiated 960 billion, just less than a trillion crowns, from European funds, but it is, of course, up to this government how quickly it can draw the money. Fourth heading: Has this government reduced the number of ministers? We have the Minister for European Affairs and the Presidency is over. Did the government even look for savings in these circles? Why do we have so many that they can't even fit in the benches? And the fifth question is: did the government deal with the regulation of, for example, the number of deputies when it approved an unlimited number of deputies to take it back and say, "Yes, there really are huge cost of the state budget, so a maximum of one, two?" These are all the savings the government has to look for before it reaches the step of cutting pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u15	Madam Vice-President, was that the first point today? [[Ambassador Dostálová: Yes.]] Yes, thank you. I'm just making sure I get it right. Mr. Vice-President Havlíček follows, and with priority rights, I'm applying. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point, the first point of today's meeting: Illegal restrictions on pensioners. So the government tossed our seniors overboard. Instead of CZK 1 770, he wants to add only CZK 760, although the law is quite clear. I take it it's an unethical matter in our opinion, that it's a double-cross. 7,000 crowns only this year, but we will convert it into the next years and find that hundreds of thousands of crowns are for a pensioner who could receive this pension for another twenty years. It's unethical, among other things, because they were counting on it. I was in Pardubice yesterday, and I met some 50 retired people there. They all had it very well calculated and knew how much their pension would increase. They're not counting on it at the moment, unfortunately. Next, it's obviously a double standard. How are we going to explain that, on the one hand, we are going to let energy companies make hundreds of billions of crowns here, which is among other things one of the causes of inflation, because we have not regulated energy prices, which is why we are where we are, in the sense of one of the highest inflations in the whole of the European Union? We are going to do this with instruments such that we are not collapsing prices for electric energy producers, which would undoubtedly be anti-inflationary, such as they did in France, but that first we will make money and then we will subsidize it in various ways. But that's another thing. What's important is that it doesn't bother us that they make incredible money, and then we take it out on the elderly? [[15.20 hours]] And the double standard is in another. If we once decided to adjust different expenditures according to inflation, including pension valorisation, then we must follow it everywhere, including pensions. It is not possible, on the one hand, through inflation and through interest rates to pay and to interest, for example, to church restituents. So let them get the 7.5 billion crowns for 2022 because of high inflation, because they have it under the inflation clause, but then everyone else must get it. One group cannot be eliminated. It's most antisocial, because we're heading for a group that can't fight back, can't fight back. It's different if we limit 30-year-olds to 40-year-olds - it may not be easy for them, but they're people who are full of strength, they're people who may be able to find a second job. It's not a defense, it's a reality, it's a fact. How does an 80 - year - old retiree depend on what he gets from the state? Moreover, in our opinion, it is also unconstitutional because, according to a number of lawyers, retroactivity is unacceptable. If this was to be done in any way - we consider this to be a bad step - then the deadline was 31 January 2023. But the worst thing about this is the way you want to deal with it, the five-wheeler, and that is that you want to use an absolutely extraordinary instrument of so-called legislative emergency. Are there exceptional circumstances why we want to start this situation at this time? Are fundamental rights threatened or freedom threatened? Is there economic damage? Well, actually, there is. There is a threat that if we put this in place, the economic damage will affect the elderly. But otherwise, I have not noticed that at this point, our economy would be threatened in some fatal way. Or is there a circumstance that is out of the ordinary course of political processes? Now it is in the word and in the letter as it is in the law, because if you do not justify this, then clearly it is at risk that the Constitutional Court may abolish this amendment for you. Who's gonna take responsibility? And most of all, please, why didn't it worry sooner? I would understand that we all have a different opinion. Yes, you're the ones who don't want to valorize by law, you're the ones who decided to throw the seniors overboard. We're the ones throwing them a lifeline, we're the ones who say we can't cool our heart rate on our seniors. But it's two political opinions, one's yours, the other's ours. That's a pretty regular discussion. What bothers us is that you want to cut taxes on lottery companies, we hate that you're not worried about high profits from energetic companies, and we're bothered by the fact that seniors are supposed to pay for it. So be it - we can discuss with each other, that's finally what the House is for. But what bothers us is that you want to rape the law. Even if we have different opinions, even if we don't meet, you can't go that way! That you're burning the term 22. 3. because if it doesn't make it to this time of year, then there is a problem, I understand that very well, but why didn't it be dealt with sooner? You knew very well, you knew very well from the fall, from the end of the year certainly, that funds will be needed to valorize pensions. It was 99 per cent, 100 per cent certain that the increase in the consumer price index would be over 5 per cent. That means you knew they'd have to pay their pensions or they'd have to raise their pension through valorisation. Yet you put a net zero in your budget, and you knew you'd have to respond to that. We can talk about if it was CZK 34 billion, and you decided to cut it down to CZK 15 billion, which means you're gonna rip the seniors off by CZK 19 billion, but you knew you're gonna have to do this. Then why didn't you say so? Why didn't you deal with it in time? Then we would avoid a state of legislative emergency. And we could've been saying this to each other since December -- you'd think you wouldn't give the elderly anything, all right. We'd say you should give it to them. You had plenty of room, you didn't do it. And please, nicely, let's not lie in our pockets about why you didn't do it. You didn't do it because they were presidential elections, and because you didn't want to pull this sensitive issue out, and you did it now, and it's even worse that you're taking it as a battering ram at this point in your life to get out of the mess you're in today, that is, in a time frame, even though you've been alerted by all the competent. You must have known that the economists were warning you that you had zero in your budget and that it was nonsense. The National Budget Board warned you about this, and of course we brought it to our attention. Madam President Schillerová has stressed this several times. You laughed or you kept your mouth shut. So please, nicely, no natural disaster. Disaster is your rule. Disaster is your economic policy. Disaster is the way you run this country. I once said that your economic governance of the country was not economic at all, but it was accounting. I have to apologize to all the accountants, because no accountant would do this. If he knows something's about to happen, he'll be ready for it. And you're putting a whole bunch of other things in your budget that you're also not 100% convinced about how they're gonna turn out. We can talk about corporate taxes, natural persons, basically almost everything. This was more certain than anything. This is a way of managing Pat and Mat, pat- and math proceedings, and unfortunately the most vulnerable have been given the mat, and these are pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm gonna ask you this over the microphone if you'd take my place, because there's no other vice president.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u18	You mean as president.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u19	In the meeting management, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u20	I thought you already took it to heart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u21	[[We're laughing, too.]] I want to answer President Schillerová, who called on me, so I want to ask you this, because I have no other way to handle this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u22	Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u23	You don't have it so well-trained yet, so it's okay, I'll be back there, driving. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond very briefly, as I have been called upon, in particular, by President Schillerová, because she proposes a point of overuse of the legislative emergency. We have become accustomed to passing laws in the legislative emergency of the last parliamentary term, it was 33 at the time, so there is certainly an overuse of this possibility, and therefore it is quite trivial that I have to recall the wording of the Rules of Procedure, but I will mention it. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the House shall, on a proposal from the Government, declare the state of legislative emergency for a certain period of time to discuss the Government's draft law under specified conditions. By its resolution, the Government did so and proposed on 20 February 2023 to me, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, to discuss the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, has just been declared a legislative emergency and therefore to declare a state of legislative emergency according to the cited section 99 of the Act. And so I will correct Vice-President Dostálová, it was not on Sunday, but it was on Monday, yesterday, February 20th. And now I quote from the opinion of the legislative department on the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency. It can be concluded from the word "pronounced" that the President of the House is obliged to declare, on a proposal from the Government, a state of legislative emergency. This conclusion also follows from the comment on the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is such a very thick book by Mrs Syllová and the collective, where, on page 552, if you would like to verify it yourself, it is written, and I quote: "The state of legislative emergency declares, on the initiative of the Prime Minister of the House. In this respect, the President of the House does not have room to assess whether there have been legal grounds for declaring this situation, but only responds to a government proposal. An assessment of whether these conditions have occurred may be carried out by the House under the authorisation conferred on it by this provision.' [[15.30 hours]] However, I quote further from the opinion of the legislative department, not already from Mrs Syllová's commentary and the collective: "The above-mentioned procedure has always been followed in the House's practice, i.e. The President of the House declared, on a proposal from the Government, a state of legislative emergency and subsequently assessed the duration or cancellation in accordance with Section 99 of the House. In our opinion, it is not for the President of the Chamber of Deputies to assess the fulfilment of the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency, with the fact that, following its declaration of this condition, only the entire Chamber of Deputies can assess and confirm or abolish the state of legislative emergency. Should the President of the Chamber of Deputies decide whether or not to declare a state of legislative emergency, this would unduly interfere with the competences of the entire Chamber of Deputies." End of quote from the opinion of the legislative department. That's why I'm saying this here so we know this context. We will get to discuss this press in the next week, the meeting has not yet been convened, but an extraordinary meeting is expected to be convened on Tuesday, 28 February, and as we will certainly all of the many dozens of cases where we have already done so, and in this parliamentary term it was only 16 times, at that time 33 times, so first we will have a debate on whether or not we will confirm the declared state of legislative emergency, i.e. whether we agree to this or not, whether we will continue to discuss the law in this regime under this section of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies at all. So I thought it was important because it's often downed here, here to say these things. I am stating the facts, I am not discussing how the government itself justified the announcement of a state of legislative emergency or the request. During the last parliamentary term, practice was introduced, i.e. under President Vondráček, under the rule of Andrej Babiš, that the justification for the state of legislative emergency was found in the explanatory report of the bill itself. This means that we continue with the same practice that was established during the previous parliamentary term during the government of the ANO movement. It's just the way it's going. And I'm sure we'll play this debate right after the press we're discussing at an emergency meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, welcome to the meeting and take over. We'll continue the negotiations. President Schillerová has applied with priority rights. I'm just pointing out that we're at the point of the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u25	Yes, Madam Vice-President, but I can perform with priority rights at any time. [[Vice-President Kovářová: Of course, you can.]] Thank you. Thank you very much, just to be clear. Thank you, Madam President, for getting out, I didn't expect that, so thank you for that. However, what have we learned from the President? She quoted the Rules of Procedure here. You don't have to be jinxed, we can all read and we've all read it. I would not dare to discuss this subject without knowing this legislative regulation. Of course, I know the commentary, it's on my desk every day, and I've been browsing it countless times. But even if you have to announce, if the government turns to you with this proposal, then you can comment. You can comment on this in words, Madam President, through the Vice-President, that conditions have not been met there, and I do not see the conditions for a legislative emergency being fulfilled. If I look at the exact same comment you quoted, I can see it right there - I'll just be brief, I don't want to read to you here, I'm sure we'll play it next week - but "any threat of negative consequences can't be considered as a prerequisite for declaring a state of emergency. It must be such a circumstance, which represents natural disasters, whose type of severity" - and that is a reference to constitutional finding 55/10, I think you have also relied on it - 'to declare a state of legislative emergency on account of major economic damage, it is necessary to accept the seriousness measured in relation to the constitutional law on security, and at the same time to put the security of the state in a fundamental way, or to threaten the rights or freedoms of citizens. This applies in particular to situations where a decision on the use of a state of legislative emergency has not been reached consensually or at least by a majority necessary for the adoption of a constitutional law, then it is more moderate" and so on. That means, I quote from exactly the same comment, I rely on the exact same provision, and I do not see the reasons on the 16-row justification of the government. Yes, you mentioned a legislative emergency when the proposed legislation was passed in a state of legislative emergency at the time of our government, under the previous leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, when Radek Vondráček was chairman. Don't think he was thinking about it too much, and the discussions were going on, but there was an unprecedented situation here. I don't want to talk about you guys saying you're gonna get better and worse... No, I want to measure the reality. There was just a dangerous virus back then. We didn't know how he would behave, what he would do, the whole world would deal with it, and we needed to deal quickly with either some measures that no one had experience with - making excuses, not whining, we needed to deal with quick help, for example, for businessmen who closed down operations. Here were the reasons, here really threatened economic damage. There were just reasons, and eventually the House and the opposition at the time - I am not saying that they always - but also supported us, which, of course, had more strength if this thing had gone to the Constitutional Court, because it was supported by a constitutional majority there. We've always been aware of that, which is why we've been trying to discuss it with you. I can't hear that. Here's authoritarianism, here's just arrogance, the argument of the type - says Minister Jurečka: Well, what do we have left when the opposition is closing the deadline? We have to go in a state of legislative emergency. This can't be happening! The Minister and the Vice Prime Minister can't argue like that, the law maker! He has to say, here are the reasons. But you don't have them! You don't have them. None of these reasons are fulfilled and I listen carefully in the media to the expression of various constitutional lawyers. They are, of course, cautious, aware that this will probably be decided by the Constitutional Court, if you manage to push it through - but you will have to push us to push it through - so, of course, they realize that the final decision will be in the hands of the Constitutional Court, but yesterday I listened to, for example, a constitutional lawyer from Charles University, now I dropped his name, and he said there on Czech television that he sees the most fundamental problem in that it will be approved in a state of legislative emergency, that the problem is more fundamental to him than the other points that will, of course, be burdened with. So, Prime Minister, you know, someone just sent me your old tweet on WhatsApp. It is - if I see a good date here, if not, then I apologize - of November 24, 2021, when you seem to have been answering or texting with the former Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, and you are calling her "Dear Mrs Maláčová," I quote your tweet, "I really believe the justification is necessary. I do not want to continue the trend established by the current government, when the law has been circumvented and, at the same time, the Constitutional Court finding that the conditions for declaring a legislative emergency have been clearly defined. For me, the rule of law is not just a word." End of quote for your tweet. Where did that shift happen? Where, then, did the rule of law become just a word for you? The moment you sat in the highest position in the House? When did it happen? [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011 movement.]] Because I think it should be measured at any moment at any moment, at any moment, the same, and above all, legally. I am thinking about it now, of course it is a question of what to do with it now, and I think the purest thing would be if this House decided to abolish the state of legislative emergency and just the proposal, although we don't really agree with it, we disagree and we fight for it, so that it can be discussed in classic terms. [[15.40 hours]] You've just been waiting for the presidential election to end, because this would have the potential to mix up a lot of cards, a lot of cards! [[A round of applause from several members of the ANO movement.]] And you were very aware of that. So I'm putting forward a procedural motion for this House to vote to abolish the state of legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u26	I therefore believe, Madam President, that we are not having a debate on the state of legislative emergency... on the agenda of the meeting. Please, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u27	I am very sorry to President Schillerová, you know that I am the friend of myself, but we are on the agenda, we are not at the point of declaring a state of legislative emergency. Now we can't vote, now we can vote maybe on a procedural motion to interrupt for ten minutes, half an hour, an hour, get one for me, but until we have an approved agenda for the meeting, we can't vote on this point. [[Mrs Mračková Vildumetz does not agree with the position.]] Because we don't have an approved agenda, it's quite simple. I can also suggest that we call off the Vice-President of the House and pretend that we can vote on it, but we can't vote on it. I may ask Madam President to declare a five-minute break that we will have a brief meeting with the club presidents here, but I consider these proposals to be completely pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u28	If I may, I will let you, Madam President, step forward, and then I would actually announce a five-minute recess to consult with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u29	Madam President, you must certainly consult, but it is a procedural proposal - if you so rely on the specific provisions of the Rules of Procedure, why this cannot be done. I'm looking at Section 99 para. 1, a state of legislative emergency has been declared, and you should vote on the procedural proposal immediately. And if you don't, you're gonna have to give me a specific paragraph. We're still learning, we're still developing. You've put us in situations that have never been dealt with here that you've never dealt with here, so let's sort them out in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u30	Yes, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u31	I apologize to the President, but we are in a state of acceptance of the agenda. That you refer to § 99 para. 1, The House can undoubtedly cancel or limit the time of the legislative emergency, but it must be a point under discussion. We cannot make up points like any procedural points that we will propose to cancel one or the other during the discussion of the meeting, so don't be angry with me, and certainly not during the discussion of the programme. This has to be classified as a program item, just as a possible point must be included to shorten the deadline between the first and second readings that have been proposed today, the last time we were properly signaled. And I can't come up with that because I've got this in the Rules of Procedure that I can do it, so I can do it at any hour of the day and night, so don't be mad at me, I'm not willing to accept this kind of interpretation, because then you're gonna be here torturing me with all sorts of completely pointless suggestions next week. I'm not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u32	Madam Speaker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor. I believe that this proposal is not voteable, Madam President, through the Vice-President, because the legislative emergency, as the Government and the logic of this paragraph in the Rules of Procedure ask, relates to a certain press, and we are indeed on the agenda, so I follow up on what the previous speaker has said. This procedural proposal is actually unvoteable, because the legislative emergency is confirmed in the debate, as I have quoted here from the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, to the specific press. At this point, however, we have not yet been able to have the agenda voted out, and there is still so much claimed that we will not be able to get to it, so I do not consider this proposal to be a voteable one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u34	Madam President, I would appeal to § 99 para. 4, and in this case, I would like to say to the President: "In a state of legislative emergency, the House will assess, before discussing the draft agenda, whether the state of the legislative emergency persists" and so on. But I don't think we have this meeting on our agenda, and we don't have it on our agenda and on our agenda. If you have a different opinion, please bring it up, and if you don't, I suggest that we actually interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes and discuss it with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u35	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So, in response to both the President, through you, Madam Vice-President, and now to you, by your means, I think the fourth paragraph speaks of something else, that there was simply an approved state of legislative emergency and we have other laws that we will be discussing, and that is why we are voting on it. This isn't the situation that's happening now. Well, I'll tell you what. Of course, I could now object to the proceedings that there was no vote, and so on - I am also friendly myself, as President Benda says, let's say. But there's one more thing I want to point out. It shows the desperation that you don't have the conditions fulfilled. You don't have the conditions for stealing in broad daylight that you want to do to seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u36	I'm just saying... anybody else want to get out? No, we'll wait a while. So I propose that we interrupt the meeting for five minutes, which means by 15.51, that we consult the legislation, and I ask the club presidents to come to me. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just saying that we're extending our break for another five minutes to 15.56. [[The hearing is suspended from 15.51 am to 15.56 pm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. I think that this proposal, which was made by President Schillerová, is unvoting. It is also in line with the position of the legislation, and, as we have heard, according to parliamentary practices. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Madam Speaker reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. We had a brief meeting here. I see some opinions. It's a new experience that we should do here in some way and talk it out in interpretation. Anyway, I want the House to vote that I object to your action, that you have not accepted the vote on my proposal, and that you have, in fact, declared this proposal unvoteable. So please, I ask that this be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u39	Yes, I have noted your objection to the President's procedure. I'll rejoin and call in colleagues and coworkers from the lobby. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Before the number of votes is settled, I will read the apologies: he apologizes to Bělohlávková Romana from 15 to 16 o'clock - working reasons, Radim Fiala all day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena takes back her apology until 15.30. We will wait a little longer and prepare for the vote, voting on the objection to the President's procedure. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 169 Members and Members signed up, for 77, versus 89. The motion was denied. So we will continue the negotiations. I had Mr. Excellent's application here with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Government, colleagues, co-workers, because we are still having this debate and it is quite obscure, so I will take the liberty, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL, ODS, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates, to give a procedural vote today under § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall act and vote after 19th and after 21st hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u41	Yes, I have noted your proposal that we will vote and act after 19 and 21 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 170 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 91, against 76. The motion was accepted. We have a priority right here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, we don't have an approved program. Now you have instructed us that we cannot vote on the abolition of the state of legislative emergency, and that we can vote on the extension of time if the programme is not approved? So please have a clear position, or we'll take it from the way that the representative of the five-wheeler says. Please, if this could be possible, otherwise I have to take a break and we have to go advise because there is no approved program for me. You just said there are rules, so let's always follow them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u43	Gentlemen, do you have anything to add to that? I believe that we can also vote on procedural proposals during the draft programme. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u44	So I, in turn, object to the President's procedure. So you're admitting the vote, Madam Vice-President? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u46	So I object to your progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u47	Yes, I've noted your objection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u48	I'm so sorry. We may object to the President's procedure, but we cannot object to the House's decision. This objection was to be heard before the House voted and agreed to continue in the evening. By the way, it happened in the past. The House voted and voted, so we cannot object to what the Chamber of Deputies has decided. The opposition to the President's procedure should have been raised earlier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u49	We got a little tangled up. In this case, I would allow the vote on the President's proposal to object to the President's procedure. If no one is against this, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of President Schillerová's proposal? Voting number 4, 171 Members and Members signed up, for 75, against 54. The motion was denied. So we will continue our negotiations. Mrs Věra Adámková is now signed in and Mrs Ožanová will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u50	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to place a new point, today as the first item in our programme, and that is the provision of health care for seniors in our Republic. Though it might seem from that name...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u51	I'm sorry, Madam. Colleagues, co-workers, Minister, please remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u52	I'm sorry too. My voice fund isn't big enough to scream it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u53	Yes, of course. Colleagues will respect that, and they'll calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u54	Although it might seem that this is a topic that is only for the health department, so it is a mistake. Health only has to cope with the consequences of what we can, unfortunately, become witnesses. Let's see what it means to take care of ourselves today. Unfortunately, the decision we have learned from the media and it is therefore confirmed that there is really to be a reduction in the valorisation of pensions, in a really important way, health care can be damaged not only by seniors but also by families of others. I have heard in the media that this is supposed to be a kind of strengthening and intergenerational solidarity. I don't have a problem with that. It's okay. I'm sure families are supposed to be helping each other. But can you explain to me how, for your information, those families, which are already below average pay, with great poverty, provide some activities for their children, for some 25 percent of the children who are obliged to attend school for financial reasons, do not take any courses such as ski courses and the like, and we will increase this and tell these families to pay their grandfather back for his medications? Well, someone can afford it, but the vast majority, dear friends, can't afford it in our country. Because I quite like numbers, so let's look at some numbers that are publicly available, I have them from sources that are traceable at any time. Food prices, as we have heard here today, are up to ten percent, for me, for example, on Sunday in Kaufland, milk of 42 crowns. Does that seem normal to you? Not to me. Apples 60 kroner. I'm talking to producers who claim to sell them for 15. Again, these are things that can be demonstrated. Of course, I don't know where the whole truth is, but let's talk about it, if you're really interested. I'm beginning to doubt it. We can say that, in the interests of the fact that, of course, there are 8 to 10 percent of people in our Republic with a disturbance in the metabolism of sugar or diabetes, the increase in the price of sugar is educational. Well, that would be smiling, because without sugar, you can't develop a baby's brain. So, just to be safe, we're gonna make everything worse. Let's take a look at Eurostat numbers, and of course I won't even mention other ones. So an increase of 27 percent on average in our food year-on-year, but I don't want to look east, I really don't - Germany has 20 and France 13 on completely different incomes, I warn. And then let's take another look at health care. You know that, of course, the state has always tried to give back to people who pay extra for their medications after the year's end. In general, people think it's 5,000 crowns. This is a mistake, my friends. It's not 5,000 crowns. It's 5,000 crowns for that age where they need it the least, but at a time when there's a stable situation, these people can predict things that will be, so well, they'll deal with it somehow. But on the contrary, in order to increase the financial well-being of these people who can no longer work and burden their children by taking care of them, believe me, it is almost impossible in many cases. Here, with the 200 people, I think it would work, but there are over 10 million other people living out there, and they certainly can't afford it. So it's only over 70 years old, 500 crowns. I'll write you double for one prescription, you'll need the drugs and we'll vote for drugs relatively cheap. That's just the way it is. Let's see what the young family that should be helping their grandfather, Daddy, needs to do. First of all, you know that the average salary -- there are different figures -- about 30 to 60 percent of people don't. Average salary in Prague over 39,000, please nicely, and we will say clearly, no young doctor, no nurse, no educator. I'm not even going to talk about the fact that, of course, it's not the person who's been taking the goods out very hard all day in any big store, and believe me, she's got a lot of back pain at the end of her shift. [[16.10 hours]] Those are just numbers. You know, math is smiling, beautiful, I like it, but average is really just a number that usually doesn't express anything that's true. Also, no one's giving standard deviations anywhere in the given averages to work with them, so they're numbers that can either explain themselves well, but unfortunately it's not that simple in the impact. When we look at what it costs, like the Central Bohemian Region, a nursery. If we want these people, young families with low income, and they can't possibly have higher ones because they work briefly, I have no problem there, they give their children, of course, to these preschool facilities, they usually pay about CZK 14,000 per month. And if they have two children, friends, they don't even take what they'd put in the nursery for the two children. Then we'll give them the grandpa, well, that'll be a great thing. When they get to kindergarten, we know that the situation is a little better, but it is the average of all the averages around CZK 5,000 to CZK 7,000. That's a lot for these people, too, and let's be glad they're gonna pay those kids. But we can't say that intergenerationally they should still be solidarity with their, say, parents - even if they do, certainly, from a moral point of view, I have no problem with that, only they probably won't have what it takes. So in that case, not only will there be a deterioration in health care, and that's what I dare say I know what I'm talking about, for the elderly, but we're already seeing it as an example of child dentistry today. And that's really not smiling, because these people over there are negotiating, what kind of seal, whether or not braces and what, because they just don't have what it takes. So it is impossible to say that we will burden these young families with generational solidarity with older members of their family as if it were ourselves. These people would be solidarity when they could really tear themselves apart, but they just can't, and they obviously won't, because this inflation, which is with us, is really incredible. So please take this into account. It's not a political issue at all. You see, I'm not accusing anyone, I'm not accusing anyone, even though, of course, it's always the government's fault, it's also there to make good decisions. It's about many ministries, it's not an interpellation to one minister. And let's place this point. We'll thank you for that. We'll be happy if you talk to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Ožanová will now appear and prepare Mrs Maříková. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u56	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for a new point and I think that, in the context of what has already been said here today, you will not be surprised. My name is Misuse of Legislative Emergency. I don't think it's overuse, I'm sorry, Madam President, but it's abuse. I consider it amoral, what you're doing. Because I have read the justification for a legislative emergency. You know, ladies and gentlemen, why? By the way, there's already a legislative emergency. The justification is that significant economic damage would be incurred. I don't know. When a pensioner spent his entire life taking money into the pension system, by retireing and pumping it, he's obviously causing damage to the state? So I understand that pensioners are already causing economic damage by their very existence? If pensioners didn't exist, wouldn't there be economic damage? How am I supposed to understand that? You call pensions economic damage? Please, such a justification for a legislative emergency is at least amoral and not merely illegal. Consider it. Do you really think this will hold up in court? I'd just like to remind you that you're very wrong if you think that all pensioners have beautiful pensions on average, what it is that valorisation is evil. Ask pensioners who have over 80 years of age, what pensions they have. Take statistics on the pensions of elderly pensioners. You will find that because there was no valorisation, so the people who have worked their whole lives have the amount of money that people currently receive benefits that have never worked. They're people who took money, they've got 13,000! They've worked their whole lives, people in health care, for example. Nurses usually have a pension of 13,000 if they are over the age of 80. And you're saying that they're causing economic damage to the state when you happen to add to the statutory valorisation. So for me, this is indeed an abuse of the legislative emergency, and I think it should be given the opportunity to discuss this point to our coalition colleagues today. That is why I propose this point, and I propose it first, because for me it is simply an option - let's not call it another - the will of the government, because I do not have another term for it. If you don't agree with me, please agree to my draft agenda point so that we can discuss this with each other. So if it bothers you that there are pensioners and they cause economic damage by taking pensions, then no. If you disagree with me, approve the point and we can discuss it, I look forward to it. Why am I so sharp? It's because I want to discuss it with you. Thank you. By the way, first item in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u57	Yes, Madame, I have noted your proposal. Mrs Maříková will now appear and prepare Mrs Šafránková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a new item entitled Discussion on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance to increase health insurance. People who don't take preventive examinations could get health insurance up, so one of the Ministry of Finance's proposals is. Martin Šamaj, an advisor to the Minister of Finance, presented this proposal by which Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura wants to treat the state budget. There's tens of billions missing from the state register, so the Treasury figured out a way to pull an extra dungeon out of people's wallets. And who does Zbyněk Stanjura want to heal his budget for? Well, for instance, on naughty patients, those who don't regularly take preventive examinations. But medical care is not equally available in all regions. For example, people have problems with the availability of dental care. Many people do not have a dentist for several years, and no doctor wants to accept them. Those who gamble with health, such as skiers who ride without a helmet, should also pay for a crown. If they were injured, they could pay more for medical care by the Ministry of Finance than those who have a helmet. Their withdrawal could increase by 1 percentage point to 5.5 percent of their wages. On the contrary, more expensive health insurance would not affect smokers, obese people or alcohol consumers or addictive substances. However, smoking and obesity are one of the most common causes of various diseases and premature deaths, according to the statistics and opinions of physicians. For example, these people or cancer cause heart disease. The treatment of diseases associated with them costs billions of crowns a year. 18 percent of women and 21 percent of men in the Czech Republic suffered from obesity last year and their number continues to increase. Overweight is one of the causes of civilization's disease. It's associated with higher blood pressure, increased blood fat, elevated cholesterol. The most common cause of death in the Czech Republic is heart disease. They're also associated with obesity. In addition, the person who smokes may also be involved in civilization diseases. The last government of Andrej Babiš divided people into vaccinated and unscathed, and this government would like to divide them into responsible and irresponsible. Maybe it's just a matter of time before even the covid-19 vaccinated people are responsible, and there may not even be mandatory vaccinations. On the one hand, you want people to prevent diseases, prevention, but this is also a good way of life. But people cannot afford that because of your policy. Go to the store and see how much fruit and vegetables it costs. Maybe a salad like that costs 50 crowns today, so who's gonna be able to afford it with lower income? So you want to punish people if they don't have preventive examinations, but thanks to your government, they're not allowed to eat so that they can actually prevent disease. Those who spend their lives on disease themselves can go on happily, and those who fail the preventive examination, you want to punish. [[16.20 hours]] I was hoping that the distribution of people was over with the last government, and I am sorry that we are learning about this matter from the media. I therefore propose a new point on the discussion of the proposal of the Minister of Finance to increase health insurance and please refer to the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u59	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mrs Šafránková will appear, and since you do not have a limited time, take your second application right away, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today and again, I propose that two proposals be put on the agenda for this meeting to help our most vulnerable groups. My first proposal has a number of House press 9, and it is an increase in the contribution to care for disabled citizens in the first and second stages of addiction, which last increased to seven years ago. This proposal started in December after almost a year and a half, but thanks to the government Members, who were present in the hall, but did not deliberately sign up for their voting facilities, they deliberately blocked the possibility of this proposal for helping disabled people and thus clearly refused to help people with disabilities, even though they knew that social services prices had been rising since January. I propose to include this point as the first item in today's negotiations, or as the first item since Thursday's negotiations. For similar reasons, I propose to pre-schedule the discussion of the House of Press 266, which concerns an increase in parental allowance from CZK 300,000 to CZK 360 000 and the introduction of its automatic valorisation. Families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups, which is even more true now, at a time of record annual inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last raised. I propose to include this point as the second point of today's negotiations, or as the second point of Thursday's negotiations. And I am curious to see how you, the government MPs, will today stand up to these proposals to help the most vulnerable groups in society. I beg your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u61	Thank you, Madame. Mr Nacher will now appear and prepare Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u62	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Dear Government, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place one point in the light of this development, which I would call the Legal Automatons from the point of view of declaring a state of legislative emergency. Now I'm going to say it, and I'm going to quote some things. Firstly, because the state of legislative emergency was announced yesterday, so it cannot be resolved, however the point to which it applies will be included next Tuesday, but all the other processes are already underway, so as I understand, for example, in the Social Committee, the point has already been discussed today or tomorrow, that means it is not just for plenary, but the process is underway. That's why it's fair to talk about it today. And if you look at the precise provisions of Section 99, the state of the legislative emergency can be declared in exceptional circumstances where fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state or when the State is threatened with significant economic damage. That's what it's called. Obviously, in this case, the government is referring to the considerable economic damage, but I say that these can't cause precisely - and now I'm getting to it - the legal vending machines, because the vending machine that starts when inflation exceeds 5% over a period of time, so the automaton that triggers the valorisation will start. But this can't mean creating some kind of economic damage, the less the government had to expect to do with this situation, because the assumption - I was looking, so when I looked, I would have made a benchmark, so the expected inflation was moving - and now I'm going to have a very wide spread, so you don't say that I'm catching someone at a word - let's say between 10 and 16 percent that inflation is going to move. So even if it were at the lowest predictive level, it would still mean in the six months that inflation would be higher than 5% and therefore the automatic mechanism would be triggered. In other words, inflation did not assume that it would not start. It is exactly the opposite, colleagues, you had to know in advance that when the inflation was between 15 and more percent last year, so that the inflation would not fall so much now and so quickly that the vending machine related to pension valorization would not go off. So my only explanation in this case is that there was an election campaign and that in the election and in the election campaign, you didn't want to launch the classic legislative process of amending the law that you're after. And there it is written quite clearly when you look in the explanatory note that if in the period for determining price increases, determined in accordance with paragraph 1. 4, the price increase will reach at least 5%. The last month of the growth survey was June 2002 in this case, which means that the next due date is from January 2023, again until June 2023. It's all over again. In other words - and I've already been with your colleagues in the television debates - if you started a classic legislative process here, we can talk about it, and at that point you would - yes, I was with my colleague Bureš - have traditionally triggered that you would change the valorisation mechanism with a classic change in legislation since 1. 1. 2024. We could agree with that, disagree, there would be some debate about it - I admitted on TV that the current situation is unsustainable, I am not saying that, but it would be a classic discussion. What's going on at the moment is that you're already changing the rules in the middle of the game, but that's why the machines are in the law. And I'd like to ask that we talk about the machines - because it's not just about valorization of pensions, we're talking about the machines, for example, with the salaries of constitutional officials, we're always spinning around the machines, how it's supposed to be tied, what for example -- just because the machines have their charm. For example, with the salaries of constitutional officials, the vending machine has the grace of not suddenly starting to lower the salary of a Member, which would be such pure populism. The moment we pick it up to a vending machine, for example, I've always suggested growth or a fall in GDP, so at that point, the politician has it indirectly in his hands. When things are going well, salaries go up, if they don't, they go down, but it's tied to some vending machine that the politician can't reach out to anyone at the last minute, he can't influence it. And the same thing is a vending machine right here, so that it doesn't actually happen right now - it's after the election, and suddenly we start changing the vending machine to save money from the state budget. But I'll even say, okay, so change it, the machine, the economic situation has changed, all right. The problem here is that you're changing it with the help of a state of legislative emergency, which means you're changing it during a time when you shouldn't be touching it anymore. You should change it from 1. 1. 2024. [[16.30 hours]] I think that even constitutional lawyer Jan Kysela says this very clearly. At a time when inflation exceeds 5 per cent over a given period, there is an automatic entitlement to valorisation at a specific level, which the government's regulation merely transfers to figures. In the case of this variant, the level of valorisation should not really move, it is clear. But the Constitutional Lawyer wants to go to the government, so he says the second option, and I read it here: "The second option, which the Ministry of Labour seems to be leaning towards, counts on a few steps. The first is that you will find that inflation has exceeded 5%" - you have found this - "you will run the procedure and you will valorize as the government says. And if, during this procedure, for which you have 50 days, the law changes, then you will accept it according to the law currently in force." Yeah, but that's a little conflicting, because we all know that in 50 days we're gonna be here... You'd have to cut time extremely short, it's going to the Senate, it's signed by the president. You can't change the law that fast. In other words, this conclusion and this version just isn't possible. That means for me, it's the retroactivity that's happening here right now. And that is why I would like to place the question of legal automatons as the first point today, because now we have encountered them, we are also running into them in other areas - just as I said, for example, the salaries of constitutional officials, Members, but also for property settlement with churches, because that is where the inflation clause is also written. So I'd ask if any other automaton and other croppings, if we're going to do this in terms of pension payments, will the property settlement apply to the churches? Because I have read, as the CNB's spokesman for the Ministry of Finance says - because last year's inflation rate is 16.5 percent, which is CZK 7.5 billion - the ceiling on the ceiling is not set in this case. So here you see, there's no limit. Colleagues, we're either gonna do this everywhere or nowhere - or selectively, but let's figure out what the rules are. In this case, the annual inflation rate published by the Czech Statistical Office for a given year, as stated in the legal regulation, will always apply to the calculation, provided that the outstanding part of the financial compensation is increased annually by the two-year-old rate of annual inflation published by the Czech Statistical Office, the Czech Statistical Office. That means that giant inflation last year will be added in 2024. Here you can see that the different machines that are running and the limits are going through different laws. So it would be fair, co-workers, that if a state of legislative emergency is running out of control here, in my opinion, and it concerns some vending machine that's changing, and I think it's changing in the middle of a run, it should change - it might change, but until the next period, it would be fair to talk about those machines that have a sense for me to talk about them. So I'm suggesting it as the first point today, alternatively, so that we can do it before next week's discussion, when we're going to deal directly with the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, so I would suggest it as the first point on Friday, this Friday, as an alternative. Thank you for the assignment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková will now appear and prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u64	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will not elaborate too closely on what I propose, because it will probably be a better time for this even after the discussion we have just had. The point is that I have proposed to include a new point of non-fulfilment of the conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency, in other words, consideration of the discussion - I am certainly in favour of the conclusion - the abolition of the state of legislative emergency precisely because the conditions required by both the constitutional law and the Constitution of the Czech Republic are not fulfilled. At this point, I would just like to draw attention to two texts from the relatively extensive plenary findings of the Constitutional Court, which are a little bit of an earlier date, both of which are from 2011. One, which I consider almost even more crucial, is 53 of 2010, of 19. 4, then published 2011. Let me quote a little bit here. It is still for those who would like to study this in advance for the upcoming debate next week, so it is especially point 123, but then in a wider context also points 119 to 122 of the 53/10 of 19. 4. 2011. So point 123 clearly tells us, and I quote: "The announcement of a state of legislative emergency and the discussion of a proposal in a short-term negotiations substantially alters the structure of the legislative process and limits its substance to the very expression of consent or disagreement, and this procedure can only be accepted as an exception as a rule, provided that there are particularly serious reasons. Interest in the immediate adoption of the law in the context of specific circumstances outweighs the general requirements arising from constitutional order in relation to the legislative process." As has already been pointed out, "the institution primarily responsible for assessing whether this is a situation is the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, not the Constitutional Court'. And now the key phrase - the last one I read here - and I quote: "However, it is not possible to accept the use of this extraordinary institute as a normal instrument of limiting parliamentary legislative procedure by a majority whenever the opposition has expressed a dissenting position on the bill and to prevent or delay its adoption use the rules of procedure laid down by the rules of procedure." And here I would like to quote from the next finding, 55/10 of 1 March 2011, in particular part of paragraph 80, and certainly the coalition's lawyers will check it out, so I quote again: "The Constitutional Court had to do so" - this concerns the particular case - "seeing also that constitutional order explicitly permits the possibility of discussing a government bill in a short hearing only on the basis of Art. 8 of the Constitutional Law." This is about the security of the Czech Republic. However, I will now skip what, of course, is also an argument in favour of the fact that the conditions are not fulfilled, but I would delay, i.e. a few sentences further: "The Constitutionalist has decided only to accept this possibility in extreme and extraordinary situations. While it can be admitted that at the level of the law" - here in this case of the Rules of Procedure - "there will be further cases where laws can be discussed in a reduced procedure, i.e. a legislative emergency, but because it is an adjustment of praeter constitution and because the purpose of the constitutional regulation of short-term negotiations is the protection of the rights and principles governing the legislative process in a democratic rule of law, the use of the institute of legislative emergency is possible only" - and now I would like to emphasise this - 'assuming a broad consensus in Parliament, acclamation, or at least a majority comparable to the majority required for the adoption of the constitutional law, or only when the nature of the situations in which the legislative emergency will be applied corresponds to the seriousness of the situations envisaged by the constitutional order in the short-term deliberation of the bill'. That's the state of danger, the state of war, as the Constitutional Court states here in parentheses. [[16.40 hours]] I am not going to be doing what I am going to be doing somewhere else, but I think there really is a reason to place the point that this is not fulfilling the conditions of legislative emergency, for declaring a legislative emergency, and I will just allow myself, on this occasion and in this context, to recall Art. 30 of my favorite Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - let us all study this - and there is - this is already a substantive argument, clearly, explicitly - that in old age our citizens have the right to adequate security, and when they have been given some adequate security over recent years, provided, so if we want to intervene in it - in parentheses behind Válková insensitively - and in addition with such an undignified procedure as an acclamation, when the government approves something for which the government should actually meet at least, we should take advantage of all the proper procedures of the ordinary legislative process and do not declare a state of legislative emergency when clearly the conditions - and I have deliberately quoted the Constitutional Court - are not fulfilled. So I would like to place that point -- I think, because I'm a realist, I see what's going on here, so it would be enough for me to put it first on this Friday, Madam Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u65	Yes, I have, I have noted, thank you, Madame. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear, and then Mr Novák is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u66	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, I, too, would like to make a practical reassignment today, which is already in the agenda for the meeting of this Chamber of Deputies, but first of all, allow me to comment on what is currently happening here in the context of pensions and within the framework of this House of Press, which will therefore be discussed at an extraordinary meeting on 28 February, and it is most likely to be discussed, which has raised me very much from the chair that it will be discussed in a state of legislative emergency. The fact that the government did not have and does not have the funds to valorize pensions has been pointed out for several months. The fact that it originally assumed that the valorisation would be 20 billion that it didn't have there, and now it found out because the government, how messy it is and still comes up with some other measures, and first came up with an austerity tariff that absolutely didn't work, then came up with a ceiling, and that is why when the valorization was taken, so by taking these measures, which was very incompetent, it reacted very late, so today the Czech Republic is the seventh worst within the EU, and this government got inflation of over 17 percent. That's the reality. This government has been given over 17 percent inflation! When we handed over, or my colleagues from the government handed over government to this government, inflation was at 5%. I do not need to remind you that, thanks to the implementation of the 0% energy tariff, which has managed to enforce the ex-minister and our President Alena Schillerová, November and December, inflation has remained just over 5%. So we knew: we don't have the funds in the budget, and now how do we do it? So we have the municipal elections, we have the Senate elections, we have the presidential elections here, so we're going to wait for all these elections to take place, and now all of a sudden, we're going to quickly submit a draft of this law - a bill that affects 2,700,000 people, citizens of this republic. And this government isn't going to discuss it to get together to communicate and discuss it, but it will be approved by per rollam!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u67	Madam, I'm...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u68	That means he's gonna send it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u69	Madam, I'm sorry to interrupt you, you said you'd propose a new point...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u70	Yes, I'll get to that, Madam Vice-President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u71	But before the proposal, you wanted to comment on what has been said here, we are not in the debate, we are proposing a new point, i.e. whether this is part of the reasoning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u72	Yes, it's part of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u73	Okay, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u74	And I'd love for you not to step in next time, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u75	Please, don't do this to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u76	So I'm thinking that if I'm talking to a point here and I want to reschedule that point, I'm rationalizing it, and I don't think you should step in. As Vice-President, I would never dare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u77	I apologise to you, Madame, but you said that before you talked about moving the point, you would comment on what has been discussed here. I asked you politely if this was part of your proposal for a preliminary point, and I would expect an answer, which I received, and I let you continue. So please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u78	I therefore believe that your procedure, Madam Vice-President, is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You're not supposed to enter, there's a new meeting going on today, all the speakers here are allowed to perform, I'm speaking to that point that I want to place, I'm talking to him here, and I have every right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u79	Of course, Madame, you have every right to do so, but you have to justify the point that you propose to move forward, not to comment on what has been discussed here under priority rights. You don't have priority rights anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u80	Madam Vice-President, if I want to justify putting that point forward here, and I will get to that point to follow up. I really think that your procedure is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And you can clap your hands for the Vice-President, maybe one day it'll be the other way around, but I'll never go down on the maneuvers that are on the right spectrum right now, I'll never go down on them. [[Let's hear it for yes.]] I think it's so unfair on your part that it doesn't really have an equivalent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u82	The fact that the government approved yesterday, through per rollam, that it wanted to give people no proper valorisation, and that it wanted to bring this law to an emergency meeting still in a state of legislative emergency, is indeed the culmination of all arrogance, disregarding citizens, and I wonder if this is even possible. And I want to say that in the context that these people are texting me, and they're writing me how it's possible that politicians have increased their salaries by almost 13 percent since January 1, 2023. So I would like to show you here how much, for example, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, or the President of the Senate, is currently taking. [[He's pointing.]] In 2022 it was 243,000, and from January 1, 2023 it is 274,000, so the increase is 12.7 percent! Second example. Ministers, we have the most, 18, we can't even fit in those benches. So Minister 173 200, raise to 195 300, again by 12.7 percent. This means an increase of 22 100 with the Minister and with the President of the House and the Senate by 31 000. [[16.50 hours]] Now, let me show you the seniors. The senior, who takes 10,000, according to this government's proposal, will take CZK 10,538, so it will increase by 5.4 percent. And the one who takes 20,000 crowns is going to take 20 768, so it's going to increase by 3.8 percent. Is that normal? And now I'm getting to move the proposal. Our President Andrej Babiš has had a draft law here for many months in the agenda, which you do not in any way assign, which deals with the freeze of politicians' salaries for five years. So let's put him at the top of the list, approve him and freeze our politicians' salaries. Why was this bill submitted by Andrej Babiš long ago not discussed in this Chamber of Deputies, and why was it not approved? So at this point, Madam Vice-President, I am putting forward a proposal for item 49, which is House press 54, and this is Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians. And I would point out that this is not about prosecutors and judges, it is only about politicians. That's the first point. The second point, which I would like to include as a second point, is the state of legislative emergency. I am convinced that there are no conditions for declaring a state of legislative emergency, and I am convinced that by sending the President of the Chamber of Deputies yesterday to all Members that he is declaring a state of legislative emergency, so that Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 clearly states that the House can abolish the state of legislative emergency. You are of the opinion that this should be done through a point, which is why I will allow myself to include this item with the name of the state of legislative emergency. But at the same time, Madam Vice-President, because there is no way that I can identify with what has been said here, I will allow myself to make a procedural motion again, and I ask you to put it immediately to a vote on abolishing the state of legislative emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u83	Let me get this straight, Madam. You're proposing to pre-schedule House press number 54, which is a bill on salaries. You also propose to include a new point which has the name of the state of legislative emergency as the second point today, that would be the point first, isn't it, today? [[No objections.]] And at the same time, you suggest... But I don't think it's possible... I'll check you all out first, and I'll ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. [[A brief meeting at the chair's table, Members coming to the hall. Rush in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a procedural proposal which, in my opinion, is unvoting, because only those with priority rights can give procedural proposals. Would you like to respond to that by someone with priority rights? [[Rush in the hall.]] Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u84	[[It comes to the speaker's desk with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.]] Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I know we have a bit of training here today and an educational window on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. But let's just say, if you're being kind enough to run a meeting, please quote us on the basis of which provision of the Rules of Procedure my esteemed colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová could not make a procedural proposal in the course of her speech? I think we're here all the time... I know I've only been here over a year in this position honored, but enlighten me, I'm learning very quickly and I'm very flexible in this. But enlighten me, my honored colleagues, the local matadors, or you, Madam President, why she couldn't make the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u85	We are not in the debate, first of all. We are at a point in the agenda of the meeting and it is only possible to propose amendments to the proposed agenda of the meeting, or points to re-inclusion. Only Members with priority rights may propose other proposals. Chairman Benda, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u86	I know we're about to have a really tough two weeks ahead of us, it's kind of my guess, but I'd still like to ask you if we want to be original, so at least we can come up with some other proposal. The proposal, which the House of Deputies declared unvoting by the President an hour ago and a quarter ago, was then rejected by an unfinished objection to the President's decision, declared the entire House unvoting, in my opinion, no longer to be put forward, should have been declared simply and quickly unvoting. And I don't want to argue now about who and at what point the negotiations have the right to make a proposal, but we have already declared this proposal unvoting in a significant debate before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u87	[[This is Mrs Schiller.]] Yes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u88	Thank you to my honored colleague Marek Benda, Chairman of the ODS Club. He moved it somewhere else, yes, but that wasn't at the heart of the argument. At the heart of the dispute was whether my honored colleague could make a procedural proposal? And I didn't get an answer. My honored colleague, Marek Benda, says: We have already voted on this, once the House said it was unvoting. I therefore, by my simple legal knowledge, think that the procedural proposals are repeatable and re-voteable. I just don't think that's a problem. [[17,00 hours]] But let's go back to the core of the poodle, whether or not my colleague could have brought it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u89	Yes, Mr. Benda, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u90	I'm prepared to return to some sort of grémium to this dispute. I think it depends on whether it is possible to make procedural proposals at all and in what form during the discussion of the agenda. We are not talking about the situation where we are in the debate. If we are not in the debate, the Member is not entitled to speak, so he is not entitled to make a procedural proposal. But I'm ready to go back to that. I am not ready to go back to the fact that when we once declared the proposal unvoted, not that we rejected it, they declared it unvoted by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, confirmed by the vote of the Chamber of Deputies, so that the proposal can be made again. The proposal was once declared unvoting and remains unvoting permanently. Permanently!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u91	Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u92	Well, I don't want to push it. I respect my colleague Marek Benda and I certainly have more experience here in parliamentaryism than I do, but we did not vote on the proposal itself, we voted on the objection - the opposition to the President's procedure that she did not allow the vote, so I think it is simply a completely different vote than the vote that would concern the rejection or rejection of the situation of a legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u93	Madam President, I think that during that ten-minute pause, we have made it clear how such a proposal has always been made and when it is possible to make this proposal. This proposal may be made where the item to which the legislative emergency is linked is on the agenda, which is not the case. We have also agreed - and now forgive me for the expression - that we have skated out of this by having the opposition to the President's procedure voted on. But at the same time, we have clearly said that this will only be possible when the draft law on which the legislative emergency is linked is on the agenda. And I have considered this, and I think that other colleagues have also witnessed that this is being done and we will be following this procedure, or you will repeat this procedure until the meeting when the Act on the Valorisation of Pensions will be put on the agenda and you will be negotiating a legislative emergency. I think that's the deal. Would you like to comment on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u94	Yes, Madam Vice-President. I won't bother you anymore because I think we need to move on. There are more important things not to wait. Yes, that was the deal, but you were supposed to justify it that way, and if you'd said that right away in response to my performance by colleague Mračková Vildumetzová, we'd been dealing with other things here a long time ago. You said, I'm sorry she has no right to bring it up because she doesn't have a priority right. Now you've straightened it out. I'm not insisting on any more objections, and we're moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u95	Very good, thank you. Before we further discuss proposals for changing the approved program, I will read an apology: Roman Bělor apologizes from 18.30 to 21.30 for work reasons. Mr Marek Novák is now signed in and will be prepared as second-to-last Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Feranec. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u96	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I ask for a new point, a point under the name of the Traders' Situation in a state led by five coalitions. I want to talk about the impact of increased contributions to the social system and further disadvantage of entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic. It's another balloon released recently by the Fialův government. Unfortunately, given how quickly the previous balloon burst, when this antisocial government is preparing to turn our seniors in an accelerated process, this issue is certainly appropriate and our tradesmen are rightly concerned that another government hammer is going to be on top of them. As part of testing the patience of citizens of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala's government leaked information to the public space that they could increase these contributions by up to 60 percent within three years as part of the search for revenue into the state budget. [[The noises are discussed in the vicinity of the riverbed.]] Again, for all the debaters who haven't heard me: 60 percent. Thank you for your tolerance, colleagues, and your colleagues. This growth is proposed by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for KDU-ČSL Mr Marian Jurečka. It is based on a 10-year-old survey in which it was found that the average employee pays a third higher taxes and taxes than the average trader. And since we have the government of analysts and economists, they're like, okay, we're just gonna raise them by a third. And if we run into the government, we'll pretend we were just debating and sending out signals. But you crashed! The strange thing is that no one in the government coalition will say that if entrepreneurs pay the lowest possible advance pension insurance for today's 2 944 crowns for the main activity and 1 178 crowns for the secondary trade - almost 400,000 entrepreneurs rely on these minimum advances according to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - they also retire with the lowest pensions. But it's their decision, not yours. This government, composed of several right-wing wannabe, one ultra-left and one business project, will take over after the covid, after the inflation and missile price growth period, and the tradesmen will start to finish massively, and they will rather go to the labour offices or to the state administration. [[Pages]] That would probably be the best thing you're expecting right now. However, you don't realize one thing. The state budget would be missing their money, and they would be standing on the offices of work with their hands stretched out. And so more than thirty years after the Velvet Revolution, thanks to ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, we will become a wannabely developed socialist country where all civil servants and our lives are governed by the party. Excuse me, five pages. The government of our state began systematically destroying the lives of the citizens of the Czech Republic after the last elections and is now switching to tradesmen. After all, the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was devastated by the government's efforts to rob citizens in broad daylight with a smile and a wave in their hand, promising a better tomorrow. And then there's the opposition that tries to keep the teeth of the nails in society not only human dignity and fair conditions for business, but also to save the savings of our citizens, but those, your esteemed colleagues from the five-blind coalition, are probably not the same, because for those of the very savings that you take away from them, I don't know if we can say the government is looking forward to it, because it blows them up, and blows them up irreversibly. And the only thing this government is going to say to you is that it's not her fault that the previous governments are responsible. [[17.10 hours]] In this context, I would like to remind you that there are already several press here in the House that you could improve as a government for our entrepreneurs. This is, for example, a proposal for the same guarantee period for businessmen as citizens or the right to set up a bank account for businessmen and companies who often have trouble starting an account because the bank does not like their business. Even the government has already expressed its views on these proposals, and surprisingly not in all cases. But I'm not illusioned that a hundred and eighty would want to deal with this in this House. They're not looking for any money out of it! I'd just like to hear at this point, along with the other hundreds of thousands of tradesmen, what rules will work here for a while, if they're sure in their business, if someone doesn't steal them on the march, if someone doesn't tell themselves that the tradesmen have power, and they need to be cut off. That's what I want to hear. There's no time for signals. You need to tell people and businessmen your truth in the eyes. Everyone wants to hear how it's gonna be so they can remember it before they vote next time! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u97	Thank you. So only if I can recapitulate it, a point called "The Situation of Traders in a State led by five coalitions, as it was on the application, and the first after fixed points. Agreed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u98	That's right. As the first point after the fixed ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u99	Okay, thank you for the clarification. Mrs Pastuchová is also registered with the application. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear almost government - the rest. I always like the way the government only runs when the votes are cast. So first, I'm going to say the name I want to include, and then I'm going to justify it, even though I think my colleague wouldn't interrupt me. My point is a government plan to support families. And I'm going to explain why, because it has something to do with those pension valorizations that I'm sure we're going to be going back to, and I think we're going to have a long, long discussion about that from Tuesday morning. You started the seniors. Who's next? I was listening to the entrances yesterday, I don't know what TV it was on, when coalition MPs were talking about valorizing the June pensions. And I am sorry that there is now no Mrs, through you, Richterová, for the pirát, because whoever knows her remembers her from last term, fighting for the families, fighting for the elderly. I understand that the pirát won't let go of the neck and the pond, so now they're going to do the rhetoric together in a five-wheel drive, but there's one thing she said that we've added a lot to the elderly, but we didn't help parents with the kids. And I would like to ask her what you did for this, Vice-President Richterová, what did you suggest that we increase their parental contribution? We have proposed the law of my colleague, by your means, Aleš Juchelka, when we propose an increase in parental contribution. We learn more from the media that parental leave will be reduced, and there is nothing to say about raising parental leave. So I would have expected that if the elderly were to increase, and Vice-President Richterová, through you, would say that we are not helping families with children - that is correct, but you have been here long enough to present this proposal as well. Next thing. I read in the media, and I was quite surprised, even though I'm a woman, but I have a kid who's grown up, that maybe this is about... Or it said: we reject workaholicism. It's a proposal I don't know how many Members and Members, about - I don't know if any of our Members are there, I really don't know, I've read it - so we don't work in the House the way we do so far. When I think about how many families now work after your steps, they have three jobs, those moms have two jobs, their fathers are busy and they're not home either. You have been elected, and if it does not suit you to sit here because it is a service to the citizens who have elected you, then give up your mandate and devote yourself to children. But many mothers and fathers and families aren't home now either, because they have to be busy and they have to turn around to pay for it all and to secure their family. I'm getting to the June valorizations. The fact that you did it after the election, I understand that, because it's about a year and a half before the election, so you're going to take the unpleasant steps now, and you're going to think the citizens will forget about it. I don't think so. But why don't you give us something to support those families? I see the opposite so far. You can't raise the parent, shorten the parent - or what I'm reading because you're not discussing with us, so we only read in the media - a contribution to building savings, people have no place to live, no money for mortgages, because no one's gonna take it today because it's not up to us, and then Vice-President Richterová will say on TV that we haven't helped families. Then help them! Then help them and give us something! And I'm gonna keep asking that because I know how the MP trained us in the last parliamentary term. And as far as pension valorization goes, it's everything, because if we have more kids and we support families, those kids can work on seniors again. But there's no talk of the seniors who are in the senior homes. The rate of stay is increased, I understand it and we were also in favour of increasing the diet, because there for the money that was given, the seniors really didn't get it or didn't have the opportunity to give them a diet so that they could fit in financially, and actually there's some amount you can take from that pension, and if the senior doesn't have it, then someone else will pay it anyway. So even over this, if you have any analysis, how many seniors are going to touch it in senior homes, because you're not going to give them any money. But that's not the essence of this point. I wanted to point out a government plan to support families, because if we support families, we're gonna have new babies, these kids can make money off seniors, and then I don't think that's what your government's doing here. I have to say, I have a lot of questions, I'll keep them for Tuesday. I'm gonna print these e-mails, black out who sent them to me, but I can tell you that this is what you're doing, and most importantly, how you're doing it, what kind of force and in a legislative emergency, leaning on it, so I can tell you that I would be ashamed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u101	Madame, do you have any further details on when you would like to include that point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u102	Madam Vice-President, I would have a government plan to support families, even if it is related, but I would have given it to the firm points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u103	Okay, thank you, and another application is submitted by Mr. Feranec. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will also propose the inclusion of a point related to the state of legislative emergency. That point sounds exact. Abolishing the state of legislative emergency, and I propose that this be the first item in today's negotiations. Let me explain why this point. We've had a legal debate here and so on, whether it's a procedural vote or not. This way we'll make sure that if you approve this point, its inclusion, we can vote whether we want to or do not want to abolish the state of legislative emergency, and it will be clearly stated, it will be certain. Why today? I don't agree with what happened here that we're supposed to be dealing with up to 28. 2, because the state of legislative emergency announced yesterday has already caused some legal consequences today. What consequences? He limited the right of Members of the Social Committee to debate this law by establishing when they should discuss it, until when, in some way, he restricted that right. He is already bringing about legal consequences today, so I do not agree with this announcement, but I respect that there has been a declared state of legislative emergency, and therefore, if it has been declared, the House can cancel it at any time. We don't really have to wait till 28. 2. I repeat, it creates some legal consequences, and most importantly, I'm afraid it's terrifying to the public. That's what I think is important. And now all the more reason why I think we should cancel it. I would argue a little bit with what the President of the House said when she was quoting Section 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I paraphrase: "The President of the House, on a proposal from the government, will declare a state of legislative emergency." But she didn't quote the first part of that sentence, and the first part of the sentence does, and we all read it: "In exceptional circumstances, when fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens or the security of the state are fundamentally threatened, or the state is threatened with considerable economic damage," and then the sentence goes on to say, "...she declares." Those are the basics of... And let's take that sentence apart. Extraordinary circumstances. If the status was announced yesterday, I'd assume that some extraordinary circumstances occurred yesterday, two days ago, in the last week. There were no special circumstances. After all, we know what the estimates of the Czech National Bank, the Ministry of Finance on inflation for 2023 for January were. That's what was supposed to happen. It's nothing special. I also ask: Are fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens threatened? By giving the pensioners a legal claim - well, I guess not. Rather, I fear that the adoption of this law threatens citizens' confidence in the rule of law at all. I mean, if you had a private insurance contract, there was a bad news, and after that date, the insurance company said, "No, we're only gonna pay half," you're gonna say it's fake. But the Pension Insurance Act is another way of making a contract, a social contract, where when the conditions came up, and we know that there was 31. 1. So I'm sure it's not a threat. I'm sure the security of the state isn't compromised. The idea that the pensioners for the 7,000 crowns you're gonna take from them would arm themselves and now they're doing demonstrations, I don't think that's true. And in the explanatory memorandum, you say: "There is a great deal of economic damage. " It's been dropped a few times. The implementation of the State by law, the payment of pensions, is not economic damage. Now that we've been discussing this, I don't know which tax, one of those wars, as you say, did Minister Síkela say: If you don't pass the law, you will cause economic damage. It's not like that. Payment of pensions is not an economic loss. If we'd agreed to do that, then-- cut it in half! There'll be even less damage. Indeed, apart from the fact that this is a legal argument outside, it is morally and very, very inappropriate for pensioners. And one more comment. It is paradoxical or sad that this proposal arises on the MPSV, which is managed by the President of the KDU-ČSL, the social conscience of the government, that it is this proposal. Because when did it come from? When was it legalized? When was this method of valorization? Wasn't it Nečasův' government? If I remember correctly, ODS, TOP 09, Public Things. And it wasn't so much social from our point of view, it could be different from yours. It's a good thing there wasn't a KDU, 'cause I guess she was outside the House, so I guess it never would have happened. So I just repeat once again: let us avoid these debates, approve the inclusion of a point, and let the Members say that they want it or do not want to cancel. And if they say they don't want it, and it really comes close to maybe a constitutional majority, that'll make it easier for you to work before the Constitutional Court. So I repeat the request once again to include a point of cancellation of the state of legislative emergency and to include it as the first point of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-000-000.u105	Thank you, and since the number of applications is exhausted, I'm just going to ask if anyone else wants to sign up with an amendment or supplemental proposal to the draft agenda? I don't see anyone. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First of all, proposals from the Gremium. I'm hearing a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards. Thank you. First of all, a proposal from the Gremium. The grémia proposal is long, but it was loaded at the beginning of today's meeting, so I just want to ask if you need to read it again, or do we all know what we're voting on? It's a grémium proposal. I see no objection that we cannot vote on the proposals. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 159 Members and Members signed up, for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed... to the sub-votes, as proposed on the agenda of the meeting. First, then, Mr Jakob, who proposes the printing of 368 - a reduction in the deadline for the printing of 368, is the first item today. Sorry, one more time, please calm down. Mr. Jakob suggested the printing of 368, shortening the deadline, today as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 170 Members registered, for 92, against 22. The motion was accepted. [[17.30 hours]] As the second again, Mr Jakob, number 23, press 387, the Asylum Act, as the first point in the first reading block. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 171 Members signed in for 146, versus 18. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is once again Mr Jakob, number 17, press 378, constitutional law, amendment of the Constitution, for point 22 in the first reading block. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, Membership 171, Membership 92, vs 3. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is again from Mr Jakob, paragraph 18, House press 379, the election management law, for point 17 in the first reading block. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 171 Members of Parliament signed in for 94, versus 57. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is again from Mr Jakob, number 19, House press 380, election management laws - related, for item 18 in the first reading block. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 172 Members of Parliament, in favour of 93, versus 59. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is from Mr Jakob again, paragraph 44, House press 39, Senate Act on Elections, for item 19 in the first reading block. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 173 Members of Parliament signed in for 95, against 75. The motion was accepted. The next item is again from Mr Jakob, the number of paragraph 7, the House's press 331, the performance of functions in the state bodies, for point 44 in the first reading block. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 173 Members of Parliament, in favour of 112, against 1. The motion was accepted. Now we have the polling points. I think we can vote on both points at the same time. This is again a proposal from Mr Jakob, including paragraphs 106 and 107. Point 106 is the election of a member of the Board of Czech Radio, paragraph 107 the election of a member of the Board of Czech Television. Points are to be classified firmly in the centre at 14:00. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 173 Members of Parliament, in favour of 152, versus 1. The motion was accepted. The next item by Mr Jakob is item 108, the election of a member of the Czech News Agency for Friday as the second item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 173 Members and Members, in favour of 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. We now have President Schillerová's proposal. It wants to include a new point called Overuse of the state of legislative emergency. If the point were to be placed, it would want it to be the first point today, but because it is a new point, we will first vote on the inclusion of this point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 94. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from President Okamura. Again, he wants to include a new item called the Fialův Government to rob all pension recipients of part of their pensions. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, versus 94. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by President Okamura is once again a new point called the Purple Government has swindled voters and is preparing to raise taxes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 75, against 95. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new item entitled the Purple Government has supported the liquidation of automobileism ordered from Brussels. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 74, against 92. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new item entitled Astronomical Acceleration due to the Fialův Government. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 71, versus 93. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal by President Okamura is the inclusion of a new item entitled Because of the Fialův Government, own housing for workers with average income is becoming impossible. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 77, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. [[17.40 hours]] The next proposal is the proposal by Vice-President Dostálová with a new item entitled Pension Reduction. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 79, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal is the proposal by Vice-President Havlíček, proposing a new point against the illegal restriction of pensioners. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 174 Members and Members voted in favour of 78, against 94. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is the proposal by Mrs Věra Adámková. It proposes a new point called Health Care Security for Seniors in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 87. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. It proposes a new point of abuse of the legislative emergency. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 79, against 95. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal is a proposal from Mrs Karla Maříková, who proposes a new item entitled The Discussion on the proposal of the Ministry of Finance to increase health insurance. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Lucie Šafránková. It proposes repositioning the point - printing 9, amendment to the Social Services Act, as the first point on Thursday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Šafránková's next proposal is to redeploy the press 266, replacing the Act on State Social Support. He has two alternatives, either as a second point today or as a second point on Thursday. First, we will vote as a second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 174 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, against 92. The motion was not accepted. The second alternative was to include Mrs Šafránková as the second point on Thursday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 78, against 91. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal is from Mr Patrik Nacher, who proposes to include a new point in the Legal Automata from the point of view of declaring a state of legislative emergency. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 174 Members of Parliament, in favour of 76, against 91. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Helena Válková. It wants to include a new point of failure to meet the conditions of the state of legislative emergency for publication. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, against 90. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. She wants to reschedule item 49, print 54, on salaries, as the first point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 78, versus 89. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal from Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová is the inclusion of a new point entitled "Emergency of Law." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 80, against 94. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mr Marek Novák. He wants to place a new point called The Situation of Traders in a state led by five coalitions. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 33, 175 Members and Members signed in for 80, against 90. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs Jana Pastuchová. She wants to include a new item called The Government's Family Support Plan. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 34, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 81, versus 88. The motion was not accepted. [[17.50 hours]] And the last proposal is Mr Milan Feranc's proposal, which wants to include a new item entitled Cancellation of the state of legislative emergency. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 35, 175 Members of Parliament signed in for 79, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. We have therefore now voted on all the proposals. I'm just going to ask if there really was a vote on all your proposals because there were a lot of them. I see no objection. So now we can vote on the whole proposal for the 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing and amended by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 36, 175 Members signed in, for 92, against 33, the proposal was approved. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. I am now opening the first item on today's agenda.
