ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 289/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Education Vladimír Balaš. [[Minister Baxa is coming to the speaker's desk.]] So Minister Baxa will take over, and I'll ask him for his word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, just to say the essential thing, Minister Balaš asked me, on account of my illness, to present this proposal here on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic, which I am happy to do, as if I had moved to the last parliamentary term, when this was one of the big issues that was being dealt with here in the Chamber of Deputies. Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me, for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to justify the proposed amendment of the law on pedagogical workers and the amendment of the school law. The proposal follows the Government's programming declaration, which concerns in particular - or the proposal concerns in particular the intention to strengthen the position of the school director as manager, to support the beginning of teachers, to implement the reform of teacher training particularly accentuating their practical skills, and the intention is also to guarantee the quality of the teacher's salary. I would now like to mention a few key points in this proposal. As regards the part of the recognition of professional qualifications, the proposal contains provisions that the school director may for a maximum period of three years recognise the presumption of professional qualifications of a second-grade primary school teacher and a secondary school for the teaching of subjects which correspond to their characteristics in the course of the course. I will just add - as colleagues who are concerned with this topic certainly know that this concerns, in particular, practitioners who can be recognised by the Director by the provision of professional qualifications as a teacher of vocational subjects, practical teaching or vocational training, if their education and practice are consistent with the nature of the subject being taught, and so can students of a Master's degree programme aimed at the preparation of second-level primary school teachers or secondary schools. For a particular employee, the total period of recognition of the presumption of professional qualifications may not exceed three years or, in summary, for more than one employer. This is one of the insurance policies in this very complicated debate about whether this can be proposed. Further amendment provisions concern educational programmes for pedagogical staff. On the one hand, the proposal narrows the scope of accreditation of educational programmes in the system of continuing education of teaching staff only to programmes which acquire the professional qualifications of a teacher and to studies leading to the acquisition of qualifications and other qualifications, type studies for the Director. [[11.30 hours]] On the other hand, all lifelong learning programmes undertaken by universities, if they acquire the professional qualifications of a teacher, will have to be accredited in the system of continuing education of pedagogical staff. For the qualification programme for second-level primary school teachers and secondary school teachers, the range of providers from universities as well as facilities for further education of pedagogical staff is extended. The third part, which I would briefly refer to, concerns the adaptation period, when it is proposed to anchor the adaptation period and in its capacity as a teacher, which provides the initial teacher with the necessary support during the initial period of his career. In connection with the implementation of the reform of teacher training and teachers in the Czech Republic, the position accompanying the teacher is newly defined as a key element of improving the quality of pedagogical practice. The work of a class teacher is also newly defined. I remember, colleagues, when I began teaching in 1999 how this is the missing thing. You find yourself a little bit thrown right into the water, and the teacher and the teacher who performs will undoubtedly be very helpful. I would also like to mention that the changes following the evaluation of joint education, the so-called inclusion, are mainly subject to revision of the requirements for the professional qualifications of a special educator, school speech and teaching assistants. A very important part of this proposal concerns the salaries of teaching staff. It is proposed to establish rules on the level of teacher salaries in schools and educational establishments established by the region, municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities. In this context, I will mention that it is based on a proposal from the last parliamentary term, which was carried mainly by the then MP for the Pirate Party Lukáš Bartoň. In contrast to this original version, however, the proposed proposal constructs the rule as a commitment of a minimum amount of funding for the salaries of all pedagogical staff. Without a doubt, the question of salaries and their guarantees is one of the central moments of this debate, and I assume there will be many speeches to it. Here I can see my colleague, Mr Výborný, preliminary report, but there are already many other colleagues in the list who certainly have something to say about this subject, but they also have very specific proposals. I would also mention that the establishment of a minimum level of proof of the knowledge of the Czech language for pedagogical workers who have obtained professional qualifications in a language other than the Czech language and the linking of qualification assumptions. Let me conclude by thanking you for your attention, and Minister Balaš is asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u3	Thank you. The proposal in the first reading was ordered to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as Parliamentary Press 289/1 and 2 and I am asking that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Pavel Klíma, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, draft amendment to Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on Educational Workers, and Act No. 561/2004, the so-called school bill, got us into second reading. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports discussed it at its meeting on 1 February 2023, as well as at the subcommittee on regional education and lifelong learning, which was devoted precisely to this subject. Both meetings showed two important things, a very similar discussion at first reading 13. 12. 2022 here in plenary. Firstly, there is broad agreement on the anchoring of new positions by the teacher, the teacher, the teacher and the teacher in the classroom, as well as on the promotion of the anchoring of the teacher's entitlement to a salary of 130 per cent against the average gross salary. Secondly, the discussion took place over two points. The shorter one still tries to question the opening up of the teaching profession to non-teachers, even though the law finally brings clear rules, their inclusion and their education, and it is actually stricter than the present one. The biggest discussion was paradoxically conducted around the name of the position of school logo. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports gave a positive opinion on the following amendments: the number of the House document In 1770 the authors of Havel, Berki, Richterová, Výborný and Zajíčková, who strengthens the position of school director by abolishing the right of pedagogical workers to use methods, forms and means at their own discretion. In addition, the consent was given to the House Document number V 1778, the petitioner Mrs Zajíčková. This document extends the institute accompanying the teacher to the participants of the DVPP - further education of pedagogical staff. The Committee also gave a favourable opinion on the document V 1782 by Members Berki, Klíma, Richterová, Výborný and Zajíčková, which complements other forms of education of teaching staff in addition to self-study, informal learning of shared experiences, as well as the document In 1783 Members Berki, Klíma, Richterová, Výborný and Zajíčková, implementing legislative technical amendments and minor substantive changes or additions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u5	Thank you, and I am opening up a general debate in which I have the priority right to sign up under the authority of Mr Zdeněk Kettner's SPD MEP to present the club's position, and I will therefore ask the Member to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already been here on this subject, and I have also been on the floor of the committee. Some of my views and opinions of the clubs are already well known, so let me just sum them up here. As has already been said here, this bill has already appeared here in the last parliamentary term, when it was not adopted, there have been several reasons. Now this document appears again here, and I have some comments about it. All the time here it is said that it has been consulted with all the experts that there is a 100% consensus here. I would like to point out that this is not really the case. As a club, we welcome this amendment to the school law, and we regret, of course, that once again the law that has not been passed when I say this is almost perfect. And why do I say that? First, Section 9 or Section 22, these are probably the most pressing areas. First I start with positive what is definitely good, which means that in some ways it reflects the difficulty of certain positions, see class teacher or reporting teacher. What is certainly positive is that in some way the amount of income and finances will be guaranteed for educators. These are all positive things that we have no comment on, and we certainly welcome them. Now, however, to those when I say this, problematic points, and these have been repeated on the committee's premises. [[11.40 hours]] Firstly, with regard to increasing the director's powers that he may prefer even an unqualified teacher or worker over a qualified one - we deal with the consequences for me, but we no longer deal with the causes in the long run. I listened very carefully to my colleagues, as well as to professionals in the field. I have to say, sometimes I agree with them, sometimes it's, as people say, a word to the punch. I'm not quite sure if this is really the way in the right direction, the loosening up, if we shouldn't focus on the functioning of teaching faculties, funding teaching faculties so that we can be sure that graduates of teaching faculties are 100% prepared professionals in their place. Yes, I'm sure someone will tell me that it can't be guaranteed 100%, but there's absolutely no guarantee that if we give more freedom to directors and the opportunity to take away the unqualified one, if it's an asset. As I'm saying, it's so controversial, we can have different opinions about it. Our opinion is that it shouldn't be loosening up. Let us not forget that this is a regulated profession, which means we require a university education there. It is a longer-term process where we have said that we want education to have an increasing level. This is the kind of situation where I don't think it is. It doesn't have to be individual cases, but I think it's systemically wrong. Furthermore, what's a little problematic is that we have a profession that we have right in the law, as a psychologist, a teacher. Then we have so-called jobs. I see a little bit of a problem here that we are now putting some of the jobs that are imposed by the decree. However, we only put some of the selected jobs into that law. I'm a little afraid that's not quite right, either. I'll explain. Some of these new jobs we don't have yet properly tested in any way when I say this, researched whether it's gonna work or not. It might not work the way we do it. If we do it the way we've been doing it, those jobs in the form of a decree so far, we can change it very quickly. However, if we put it into law and find that it does not work as it should, then there is a very lengthy legislative process to remedy this situation. Another such problematic point is the relaxation of education, the transfer of powers to non-profit organizations outside the Faculty of Prague. For me, actually, a state that should guarantee - because education is a strategic commodity for the state, for its future - I think that the state should not let go of the possibility of controlling and influencing the quality of teaching, so that is another such controversial moment. When I said I didn't like the fact that it's constantly presented, how it's consistent with all the experts - I'm going to list here the most recent list of those who have reservations about it. The reservations were mostly directed at the two areas I was talking about. It is the Czech Conference of Rectors, the Council of Higher Education Institutions, the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Philosophy, the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Science, the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Sports, the Association of Czech Mathematicians, the Association of History Didactics, the Association of Teachers of History of the Czech Republic, the Association of English Teachers, the Unity of Czech Mathematicians and Physics, the Society of Mathematics Teachers JČMF, the Czech Education Society and the Pedagogical Chamber, that means that the list is not very small. If you listened carefully to me, it is mostly universities and faculties that are in charge of education, which means that they should be drivers of the future in education. For these reasons, I have proposed two amendments, following various consultations and discussions in the committees, I have decided to finally make one amendment - this is precisely the loosening of education, the possibility of releasing my hands for the employment of unqualified workers. Of course, I will continue to sign up for my amendment in a general and detailed debate. Of course, I have also followed closely the amendments from both the five-calice and my opponents. We will certainly support all the amendments aimed at improving this law and reaching a better form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u7	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mr Havel, Mr Klíma will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond very briefly to Mr Kettner's speech through you. You said, my colleague, through Madam Vice-President, that there is a 100% consensus on this amendment across different associations. It's not true, no one's saying the match is 100%. Surely there are associations here that have partial doubts about some provisions. Those organizations you listed here are actually commenting on some of the stuff from the novel. However, it is not so - I would not like it to sound so - that it does not agree with the amendment as a whole. Maybe that's how it could have been understood. Each of these organizations has some partial comments. Let me make a little comment on those paragraphs 9 and 22, as you mentioned, by the law on teaching staff. We are well aware that the provision that the school principal - I can really speak here from the personal experience of the school principal - is a certain patch that he can choose someone who is not fully qualified, but be careful, there is an important condition that the person can be employed for a maximum of three years. This is stimulating both for the person to complete his education, so it is actually a strategic opportunity for school directors to decide on these personnel issues. It's a better condition than the one that has been so far, when we've actually been school directors often, if we didn't have a qualified teacher, being forced to fix and all sorts of fake ads that we just don't have the person, and pretend that we have someone qualified. Let me make one last comment. I believe that the state will not resign in order to influence the quality of teacher education programmes. That's what he's guarding so far, and he's going to continue to monitor it with accreditation requirements for educational programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mr Klíma. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also need to respond briefly to my colleague Kettner's performance. I agree with him that undergraduate teacher training should be improved. I believe the faculties and associations you've been talking about are working on this, but they're not going to solve the principal's situation this year. What a colleague is actually spreading here is such a dangerous shortcut about opening up this profession to anyone that anyone in school can teach, let's not, it's not true. Again, unqualified teachers will be teaching for an exception. We give it clear rules, tighten it up, not loosen it up. They will only be able to teach a field close to their current qualification, subject to completion of pedagogical qualifications within three years. I'm just gonna repeat what I did at the first reading. We're merely codifying the state that has actually now - and my colleague Havel has described it a little bit - been going on. No one wants it to be that way, but a specific example from the principal's office. Now it is so that when an educated mathematician sits against you as an educated mathematician, not an educator, and next to him an educated musician-pedagogist, you are legally obliged to take that musician. This simple example explains why we're reaching out to some rules about receiving non-teaching as a teacher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u11	I also thank you for keeping time. Furthermore, with a factual remark, Mr Kettner is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to the reactions. First of all, I'm sorry I said the 100 percent match, that didn't really fit. It was given, however, that the reservations are minimal. Okay, I said, we'll probably never find a 100% match. All we care about is achieving the maximum possible reachable number. As for unqualified college students and their employment, these directors could have done this by now, so I'm a little afraid of loosening up. And most importantly, I'm responding to this so-called dangerous shortcut. For me, I don't think that's a dangerous shortcut. Of course, the bottom line is that he must be a college educated man. I just wouldn't exactly say when there was this example, that if I had a qualified musician and next to that unqualified math teacher, I had to take the musician. It's about what class I'm looking for. That means when I need a math teacher, it's absolute nonsense that the director would have to prefer a qualified musician. I can't imagine a musician teaching mathematics. Of course, the resemblance always has to come out in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u13	Thank you. Furthermore, with factual remarks, Mrs Zajíčková, Mr Berki and Mr Havel are registered. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u14	Thank you. I would just like to say here as Chair of the Sub-Committee on Regional Education that we have been very widely communicating this amendment, that several subcommittee meetings were held, to which various associations were invited, from the Association of Deans of the Faculty of Education, Association of Special Teachers, various non-profit organizations, representatives of clinical logos were invited. So I would just like to point out that the amendment to the Education Worker Act and, above all, the controversial points, the controversial changes, were very widely communicated, all participants, all actors who had to do with the points or the wording of the amendment, had sufficient scope to communicate their views. There were times when two different opinions, two different approaches were really placed on the table, but I think that the amendment also brings a certain compromise in this regard, that the amendments changed and improved the wording of the amendment - for example, the amendment that I also tabled, which concerns allowing the accompanying teacher to be made possible to students of supplementary pedagogical studies, and so on. So there have been quite a lot of fundamental changes, even against the original proposal in the previous parliamentary term. I would like to make it clear that there really is more or less broad agreement over the novel. Yes, there are moments, points on which we can have different opinions, see, for example, whether it is a good thing that a teaching profession also opens up to masters with an uneducated education. But I think there's been a lot of noise here. I would not be particularly concerned about this at all, on the contrary, I see a great opportunity for our schools to become attractive to children. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u15	Thank you, too. Another application is Mr Berki. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u16	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just pick up. This section 9 is an example of where the compromise was sought, the original text looked different. The two insurance policies that got there are related to the fields for which qualifications can be awarded, and then a better specification of the three years, which was not in the original proposal. And I'll give you another example for which I think this situation is appropriate. I imagine I'm the principal, I'm in the principal's office, and I'm sitting against a qualified teacher, but with a bad reputation, which they fired from three previous schools, and besides him an unqualified educator who, for example, has experience from a youth organization. At a time like this, I think that the director has the right to choose another choice, not only according to qualifications, although I consider the qualification to be very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u17	Thank you. Furthermore, with the application for a factual remark, Mr Havel is a Member. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u18	Thank you. Just one more sentence or epilogue for example musician - math teacher. That's exactly what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna follow up on a colleague. The school legislation, the law on teaching workers, knows nothing like the concept of aprobation. He only knows that someone is a qualified teacher, or is an unqualified teacher, and in the current legislative form, which we will actually change slightly by doing so, so it really is that the school principal has to choose a qualified teacher, although he is a musician, as a math teacher, because he has no other choice. He has to employ a qualified teacher. That's exactly what my colleague Berki here mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u19	Thank you. The President of the Výborný and Mr Vondrák are also registered with a point of fact. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, I will freely follow up on my colleagues Berki and Havel, what is important to realize, and it is in the debate that we held on the committee and with Mr Kettner, so at the moment that the director decides for an unqualified expert from practice, whether he is a person who works with children, with youth, or simply a person in the field, he must be a subject related to a subject that will be taught. This is the first important condition that is given in addition, and it needs to be recalled. That means we don't open schools to anyone who wants to. And the second thing is, there's a condition to complete your education within three years. And let me make one more comment that didn't come out. Exactly this Section 9a is the one to whom we give full management responsibility to the headmaster of the school. The school director in the finals is responsible for the quality of education at the school, and I am convinced that the full majority of directors, and now I say this as a former school director, is sane and judgmental and knows who he accepts for the school, because the director is responsible for the quality of the educational process and, of course, also for the Czech School Inspection, Public and Parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u21	I also thank you, and Mr Vondrák is also factual with the application. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is quite obvious that the spectrum of views in this area is very broad, but we simply need to find a consensus that will be valid for a long time, and I say that we do not have enough qualified teachers. I think that the ring around Prague will now ask for investment in schools so that new schools can stand up, but in those schools teachers must be prepared, they must be able, and I say that there are many experts who may not have taught, but they have experience in life that can transform them into good teachers, so let's try to give them a chance. I think the law is set up, and it's set up right, and I feel that some people don't like it, but that's my life experience too. By the way, even as a rector of a university, I introduced the possibility of having something that I would call miner, which means such a minor education in the field of pedagogy, so that a graduate of the Faculty of Engineering, the Faculty of Construction can then go to teach for example at possible secondary schools and apply his experience there. So, in my opinion, it's a consensus, and in my opinion, it has a chance to be permanent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Next with the application is Mrs Zajíčková, Mr Kettner will be prepared, factual remarks. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u24	And I will actually follow up beautifully on Mr Vondrák, because I think there is another dimension that needs to be mentioned, and that is today the trend of lifelong learning and the trend that society is changing so quickly that people are expected to change their profession throughout their lives, and we should not really defend ourselves to it, and I think that the teaching profession is one of those that can open this space to other people and take advantage of the experience, whether they are economists or architects, or they are journalists, philosophers who have university education, experience. After completing his three years of teaching studies, he enters the school and enriches the school, enriches the teaching corps, enriches his students, so even the excess of that and this trend of lifelong learning actually corresponds to this possibility and the fact that the space opens up to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u25	Thank you for keeping the time and further with the application is Mr Kettner. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u26	Thank you. Some of my colleagues' speeches give me some comfort, some of them I still have some doubts about. I'm going to say this in connection with inclusion. For example, I don't have a problem with high school, but there I think the specialist will be an asset. For example, I'm afraid that we have children with special educational needs, dyslexics, with mild mental disability - and there I'm a little concerned that these experts who do will have a positive relationship with children will be experts in their field, but if they can work with those children, so that they can do no more harm than good to those children who are currently in those normal classes. So I'm a little worried there. And I have another such remark that within three years, the person has to start studying - whether he will be treated in any way so that we do not have educational tourists here. That means he gets into some school, he starts studying, he doesn't finish it, he walks out of that school, he goes to another school in the next town, he starts his studies again, he doesn't finish it again - so we don't have such an educational tourist here. That means that even here, I wonder how this will be treated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u27	I also thank you for keeping time. Mrs Berkovcová is also in fact a point of fact, and Mr Berki will be prepared. And I'll say goodbye and hand over the meeting proceedings, but first I'll give the floor to the lady. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u28	Thank you. I will follow up on my colleagues, I think my colleague Havel, to discuss the concept of qualifications and aprobation. It is true that the law does not know the concept of aprobation, only the concept of qualification, but the Czech School Inspectorate works with this term and its latest analyses show that children or pupils of teachers who are qualified and aprobated achieve better educational results. It is about the course of teaching, about educational forms, it is about methodology, didactics, how qualified teachers teach and how they work individually with all pupils, both with learning disabilities and with students gifted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u29	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for keeping the lady's time, and I will invite her to the speaker's desk on another factual remark by Mr Berki. You applied for the alphabet nicely, that's nice how obedient you are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u30	I, Mr Vice-President, will only answer Mr Kettner. Because this concern was there, that's why the paragraphs were refined so as to make it clear that there can be no chaining. So there's a condition that it's a total of three years from the first entry into the profession. That means it's not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u31	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Ryba. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'd take the liberty of not being a teacher, a few notes too. First of all, I don't want this to be meant by comparing the teaching profession with the medical profession, however, that she has to be in the field, so probably the nurse is also in the field, but we wouldn't allow her to heal, even for three years. But I don't want to compare the professions because they're really different from each other. The fact that it's a problem, that we have a lack of teachers, that school directors are struggling with it, that they're dealing with it today, that they're really taking someone, but they have to prove that they didn't get a teacher who has the appropriate qualifications, that's true. On the other hand, it's also true what came out of someone else's office that for those directors, the exception is for three years. It's a question, and it's only time to see how it works, if the original one, as it was before, when he was showing it over and over again, they could have had it there for five years. Three years from now, this guy's gonna have to leave, and they might run out. But I don't want to argue, it really doesn't show up until time and we'll see in three years if we have enough of these people to continue to educate themselves. The second thought I have is that education has fallen. I approve that it is possible to change professions, and that is a good thing, today it is a worldwide trend, but it is also necessary to focus on lifelong teacher education, because I am afraid that this is not quite well set up. And thirdly from my point of view, I think that it is necessary - and I don't know how I am an educator - but I'm also putting pressure on universities in the pedagogical direction, because from my point of view, most universities today focus on 90, maybe 99 percent to teach the teacher... sorry, they taught the material but not the pedagogy and it is necessary to focus on pedagogy as well. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Sorry, time, Mr. Congressman.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u33	Thank you, if you'll just sign in again. Other factual points have been added. Mr Berki, Mrs Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u34	Excuse me, Mr Vice-President, I will answer through you again. This regulates the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports as a regulator, because it determines the proportion of credits or the extent of the teaching which part it is supposed to be in. So it's not exactly like the schools are free to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u35	Thank you for keeping time. The next will be Mrs Peštová, and Mr Rais will be prepared with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u36	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I'm not an expert on this law, but I just wanted to ask honored colleagues if you thought about it when you put that condition in there, that within three years they must have completed the education, the minimum they need to do, if you didn't think about it, that it would be enough if he started his studies within three years, because that person, when he got to school - and I oddly taught high school maths one year from freshman to senior year. By being in the business, of course, I was probably an asset to the school. But I was discouraged by the fact that I was obliged to do this, and that's why I quit school. Because that first year, when you start there, it's really nothing easy before you do the curriculum before you get there. I'm saying, like, the third, fourth year you're getting used to the process, and you're not really limited by getting ready for school anymore. And if it had been that he was going to start up by the last three years, he wouldn't be as stressed as he is right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u37	Thank you for keeping time. The next one will speak with a factual remark by Mr Rais, and Mr Brož will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u38	Hello. Since I am concerned that I will not get to my main contribution, I would like to make one small remark as regards the statement that the quality of lifelong learning needs to be improved. My lifelong experience in the field of organization and the course of managerial and eventually legal studies such as LLM, MPA, MBA and so on only confirms this since basically accreditation has left universities abroad or ours and has gone into some sort of folk creativity of various eseros, so maybe we already have almost all MBA here - the question is, what did you get out of it? So this is just to say that this is an absolutely up-to-date issue, which, as it is set today, clearly leads to a reduction in quality. On the other hand, I am pleased that the debate over the two parliamentary periods has led to the fact that I think that a number of elements and amendments, including, for example, the one to which I have joined now, are clearly aimed at increasing quality, and I consider this to be extremely important. That should be something like a common denominator of everything here to do, which it doesn't always be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u39	Thank you. Mr Brož will continue with the factual remark, and Mrs Zajíčková will be prepared. Mr Brož, if he is not, his point of order fails, and I will ask Mrs Zajíčková to prepare Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u40	I will only react very briefly to both of my previous speakers, through you, of course, Mr President. I thank Mr Rais very much, because that is exactly what he said, that this amendment should bring us together, and I felt this way all the time that there were no fundamental contradictions in the discussion of this amendment. And it really is, we are interested in children, and this novel brings great improvement. [[12.10 hours]] And then I would like to respond to Mrs Peštová. Again, through you, Mr President, yes, of course that would also be an option, to put those students or those teachers into the law within three years. However, this would expose children to a longer period when they would not have qualified teachers. And we didn't want that, just because we realize that it's important that teachers have pedagogical education, just so that they can work with children who are inclined and so on. So we didn't want to loosen things up like that, and that's why there was this condition that within three years he must have completed his pedagogical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u41	Thank you, too. She will now speak with the factual remark of Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u42	And it will come out with pleasure this time because it is such an exception when, as has already been said here, Mr Vice-President, from your mouth, through Professor Rais: it is indeed an amendment that moves the current legislation in the right direction and, above all, has responded to what has also been said here, to the comments of a number of academic workplaces. I still consider myself from the academic sphere and area and, like colleagues, I have received a number of comments, criticisms, questions, and perhaps this amended legislation solves part of these problems. But now that I have the word not to take it twice, I just want to say that we will certainly also support what is going to be discussed in relation to this amendment, and that is precisely the logoped one, the amendment that Mr Philipp now has, through you, and where the only thing that has changed at the last moment was the title of the relevant provision, which could, in turn, be a special teacher for communication disruptions, but a more precise term, as far as I know, a special teacher for speech disturbances and defects, so as to match the content of the amended provision or new provision. And I think that we, too, have done a good job in this regard, the coalition and the opposition, because we wanted to separate and distinguish those two professions. So, in this respect, thank you for allowing us to come forward and thank you for finding a match on something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u43	Yes, thank you. Another comment will be made by Mr Ryba. And I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your conversations down, or to transfer them to the lobby. I'll have phone conversations, please, in the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u44	I'm sorry I dragged the time before, I'm sure I'll spare him this time. I want to say clearly that I will support this amendment because I like it. On the other hand, I say to the pedagogical education that I think that teaching in a number of universities has gone to the brink and it would be necessary to return it to its place, because I think that the new teachers aren't very good at teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u45	The last one, with a factual remark, is Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u46	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to respond to an honored colleague, Mrs Zajíčková and to Berenika Peštová, and actually to an exchange of views on whether it would be possible to tolerate the start of a pedagogical study within three years from the beginning of the field. And you, Mrs Zajíčková, through Mr President, have said here that it is probably not appropriate to prolong the time when he would teach an unqualified teacher. But for me, the will to start my studies and continue with the teacher, who, even though unqualified, has proved himself, is less a pity than losing the teacher -- maybe up to those three years. And I think it would be worth it here - even though we support this legal standard, of course, we are glad that there is a mutual friendliness here, that politics is not involved, but in terms of the use of common sense - I think that the greater loss is to lose a person who will not have the education within three years, while he has proved himself in the teaching, and we are bound by the law that he cannot continue. So if it were possible to re-evaluate here, I would look at an outside teacher who once participated in teaching as a doctor at a medical school with a pedagogical minimum, so I think this would be worth considering, if possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u47	Thank you, that was the last point of fact so far. Before we go back to the general debate, I will add two apologies: Mr Kučera apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons, and Mrs Pastuchová apologises from 12 o'clock, also for work reasons. And to the speaker's desk, I invite Mr. Rais. We are going back to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u48	Mr President, colleagues, I actually have two amendments in the system. One together with Mr. Berki, Mr. Klíma and Mrs. Zajíčková, who is a compromise between what the vast majority of people want and what was in the bill, it means that we want all the studies, whoever does it, to be accredited. And there's a consensus, that's the amendment that's listed here under 1911 just in case. And the second amendment I made myself is Amendment 1442, which concerns the quality of the education of speechmakers. Once again, I am concerned about the quality of who will teach it, or I am emphasising that the studies should be accredited and that it should take place at university level. The whole law, as has already been said, has been processed for practically two periods and I will repeat what has already been done here, that it has been quite well and in depth processed, that I think that the fact that it has been here in the House for a long time, so that it has been positively reflected, that has been said by several previous speakers. From my point of view, there are several moments which the opposition and the public rightly point out and which are not okay. The discussion has taken place here in this regard. So if I were essentially to generalize my two amendments in some way, my point is that it should be approved at university level. And I just think they're paying for a couple of these. One of them is that teaching pedagogy, didactics of future teachers, belongs only to universities, or is to be managed, or is simply meant to affect the subject who runs this. These are the cores of my amendments. [[There's restlessness in the hall, there's noise.]] I just wanted to point out the danger, because I've been here a long time, so I've basically experienced the very attractive courses of management, legal direction outside the university. And what I was saying in that factual remark - the poor quality that was relatively quickly reflected in the fact that essentially the state got rid of the possibility of influencing the quality of the really these study programs...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u49	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you. Colleagues, colleagues, even though there aren't many of us in the room, the noise is really unprecedented. I beg you, if you could please calm down and possibly transfer your discussions to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u50	Thank you. I'm saying some sort of generalization of an old man based on 30 years of experience, I mean a teaching old man, so maybe it's worth hearing and hearing. If you transfer study programs from universities to some nonprofit institutions, and they are also profitable, basically institutions outside universities, quality goes down. The specific example I see is the management courses LLM, MBA, MPA and so on. These people, for the most part, can't do anything. Basically, they buy business cards and ask personalists how they look at these people who come from all kinds of eseróks, how they look at them when you don't trust me. [[12.20 hours]] With regard to the amendment that we have put together with colleagues and colleagues, I think it is worth saying that the proposal has been discussed at the level of the Ministry of Education and subsequently adapted to satisfy, in principle, the requirements of officials. And I'd probably repeat myself otherwise, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u51	Thank you. The next will be Mr Šimek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u52	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I would like to put forward one amendment - number 1888, concerning the remuneration for education in kindergarten schools and in school groups. There are two reasons. The first reason is, of course, the removal of school directors, and the second reason I mention here is that today's remuneration is set by the principal of the primary school or kindergarten school, and this proposal provides for the setting up of the founder to determine the remuneration. The main reason why the founder: because the remuneration is calculated essentially from the operating costs of the school facility - and basically the entire operating costs are financed by the founder, so we think with fellow Members who are proposing this amendment to me that it should also be the level of remuneration of the founder to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Berkovcová is next in line for the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to comment at all on the whole draft amendment of the law on pedagogical workers and, at the same time, a little bit also present the opinions of various professional associations, i.e. also my own opinion, and later I will introduce and justify my two amendments. Many have already been said, so I do not want to repeat myself completely, but I will remind you once again that a number of comments have been made on the proposal of the amendment. Only in the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure came to the Ministry of Education 221 comments and only the Czech Rectors' Conference formulated 55 of them. The negative opinion has been formulated by 14 school organisations, and I will not name them here because I feel that they have been named here before me, but indeed all possible - Dean's Association, Council of Higher Education, Rector's Conference - these all organisations have expressed a negative opinion and I really do not recall perhaps the only one that would give a positive opinion. The critics refer to the amendment as dequalifying and deprofessional, as they believe it threatens the quality of education by introducing the institute of recognition of teacher qualifications to someone who does not actually have it, who does not have pedagogical education, which is not possible in any other country of the European Union. It is often argued that a good teacher does not need paper, he does not need school. This statement is not entirely wrong, because the diploma does not guarantee that it is a good teacher, however, as I have already said here, the latest analyses of the Czech School Inspectorate show that qualification and participation are key factors that are directly related to better educational results. In other words, pupils of these qualified teachers achieve on average better results and experience from international investigations suggest that this fact is shown most strongly in mathematics and in natural sciences, less in read literacy. We need to realize that the teacher has a number of dyslexics in his class, he has children with mild mental disabilities and he has to deal with them within inclusion, so the teaching methodology is really very important; the teacher has to deal with them, with these pupils, which even with the good will of the educated engineer simply cannot. The professional public warns against the efforts of the Ministry of Education to reduce the requirements for teacher qualifications in a legally regulated profession at a time when, on the contrary, demands on the professionalism of teachers are growing. Personally, I must admit that I do not have a fully exclusive position on this issue. On the one hand, I realize that reducing the qualifications of teachers is not a good way to go, and I understand the position of higher education teachers, on the other hand, I cannot be deaf to the voice of directors who need to employ unqualified teachers sometimes and somewhere so that they can provide teaching at school, especially professional and scientific subjects. However, recognition of qualifications is not the only controversial point of the amendment. A storm of reactions also triggers the introduction of the position of school logo, and there has been a bit of talk about it here. The introduction of a new concept of school logoped can bring confusion into practice, parents will find it very difficult to distinguish the concepts of school and clinical logoped, while examination by logoped medicine is essential and cannot be accepted for medical diagnosis to be carried out by school workers, because a large majority of paediatric patients also have neurodevelopmental disorders and often other associated difficulties, which require comprehensive access and cooperation with neurologists, phoneatras and so on. However, the work of a special teacher for speech defects is absolutely necessary and meritful at school, but it is not possible to call them a logopede, which clearly declares the department of activity, education and competence by definition. But what is completely lacking in the novel is social educators. The need for schools to have a social educator is very high after a difficult period of covid and after the integration of Ukrainian pupils and the financing of these positions is still verified through templates and so on. Given the high financial claim, it would be sufficient if these support positions were at least stated in the law, and it would be easier then to establish a financing system. I think social educators should receive at least the same attention as the school logos proposed. The school needs a worker to coordinate cooperation between the school, the authorities, the parents, and it does not matter whether we call him a social educator, a social worker or a social coordinator. The anchoring of this position would improve the position of social educators who help children to break free from the educational failure that often stems from the dislike of school, from the absence, from the unmotivating family environment, where perhaps the class teacher will not reach his intervention. But in order not to be just critical, I will mention the positive points of the amendment, and that is the anchoring of positions accompanying, stating and classroom teacher. The accompanying teacher guides the teacher during his teaching practice, supports him in solving the first problems, can provide him with feedback on his/her work and thus improve his/her readiness to the profession itself. The teaching teacher then devotes himself to beginners in his initial adaptation period and the starting teacher receives two years of care from a more experienced colleague. As far as the teacher is concerned, the role is, of course, well known to the public, but the law now clearly defines its activities, which include the care of classroom relationships and the creation of a safe environment for the education of pupils and communication with parents. The specification in the Act does not lead to a new evaluation system, as class teachers have been a special bonus since 2021. It is only a pity that it is once again forgotten about kindergartens, where the position of a class teacher would also have its merits, as well as at primary or secondary schools. Even in kindergartens, the teacher conducts child reporting administration, deals with parents - perhaps even more than in primary or secondary schools - and therefore they would certainly also deserve a surcharge for classrooms. And, for example, in Slovakia, there is a position of teacher for kindergarten schools. So much for my statement on the novel. I am once more enrolled in the debate and will give reasons, and I will present my amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u55	Thank you, too. Your speech raised one point of fact, Mrs Mádlová. Mr Berki will prepare for the general debate. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u56	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would only respond to the newly emerging position of the school logoped, because we discussed the clinical logoped here last week, and I wanted to ask if there is any expectation of a mix of competences between school and clinical logoped, because clinical logoped is actually a diagnosis and treatment of disease according to the international classification of diseases, which is probably not to be done by school logoped. But I'm just asking for some clarification as to where the competencies are, if they're in any way common, because there are some consulting centers. And then if - I know that there may be some kind of methodical instruction at the Ministry of Health, so what is content, and if there isn't really a chance that there will be some kind of interbreeding that might in some way threaten the profession of school logo, because if there is some kind of interbreeding of the profession, then it is also on the level of criminal in the health sector, which is not quite simple. And we paramedics know what we're talking about when we know we're always one foot in jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u57	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u58	I'll shut it down now because there's all sorts of information coming up. This means: there is no name on the methodical instruction at the Ministry. Instead of a profession name, there's a name. I'm waiting for the law to pass when the law is passed by the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, and the President will sign it, and only then will the name be put into that methodical instruction. Of course, they can't hide themselves from competence and they can't show performance at all - non-medical workers and health workers. They are two categories of workers: pedagogical, medical. In the meantime, there is a clear line, which is defined by the law, which, of course, is defined by the health insurance companies and so on. As far as the title is concerned, the opinion of the Ministry of Health was neutral, and as the Chamber of Deputies decides, as the Senate decides, this will be fully accepted by the Ministry of Health and will only be added to the methodological instruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u59	The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mrs Zajíčková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u60	Just a very brief response to Mrs Mádlová's question, by your means, Mr President. Yes, if the school logo is legalized in the amendment to the Education Worker Act, there is already some proposal for the competence of a clinical and school logo. This is where it's held. There's definitely no overlap. And we have spoken on the subcommittee several times that it will be necessary to educate the general public, among the teaching staff, about exactly the competence of clinical and school logos.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u61	Thank you. That was the last point in fact, we are going back to the general debate and I will ask Mr Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me to respond a little first, through you, to my colleague Berkovcová. As regards the development of the text itself, the discussions and contradictions, I have said this several times, but I consider it important to emphasise this: the discussions have continued, and some of these texts have therefore been adapted. This means, I think, that this law really is a demonstration of trying to find consensus on some things. By the way, the amendment that I recorded for a group of Members in the system under House document 1911 will prove this, which is just a little bit governed by Section 22. I'll get to that in a minute. As far as the logos are concerned, I will not be able to comment on the name itself, I suppose it will come soon, but it does count on two things, and this is the cooperation between the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Health on a methodology that would clearly define, not only where the difference is, but where, on the contrary, there is a common area for cooperation to be carried out well. And the second thing is: it's a new school logo - and now I'm going to use the name that's in the proposal, so it's anchored there - it's a postgraduate study and its content, to some extent, I think, can also be a good moment for the cooperation of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. As far as the social educator is concerned, I'm taking the liberty of reacting a little. His funding is not verified. What's problematic there at this point is the content of the position, and right here it just needs to be said that, as we are discussing very much here or discussing the name of the logoped, it is a big question for a social educator whether it is really a teaching position. And that's exactly what should result from the verification, and that's why it's not embedded in the amendment right now, and it's waiting for the result, if any of the schools that verify it is going to be a unified approach, or if it turns out that it's going to have to take a little bit more freedom to hide the kind of activity that the particular school needs that has the problem. And the last thing I want to do is imagine the content and justify the content of the amendment under House number 1911. We are currently responding to discussions on whether this is to be a study of pedagogy, a former depéeska, directed only at universities, or to other facilities for further education of pedagogical workers. The consensus we have found at this point is that in paragraph or point (a), which concerns studies for second-level teachers and secondary schools in general educational subjects, it added that for those non-university institutions, these studies could only be carried out if they cooperate with universities that implement study programmes in the educational field of teaching.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u63	Thank you. The next is the general debate by Mr Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I've already told myself all the important things. I've provoked a debate. I have to appreciate it, and I really like the fact that it's still on the professional and factual side. This means that I will now use my time only to read the justification of my amendment so that in a detailed debate I can only apply to it and not delay it any longer. So my amendment releases the already mentioned Section 9a, which I believe is contrary to the strategy of the Czech Republic's education policy by 2030+; Paragraph 9 calls into question the fundamental principle of the teaching profession as a regulated profession. The procedure for recognising the qualifications of a teacher cannot be accepted to anyone who has not actually received it. A similar provision is completely non-standard and completely non-systemic compared to the legislation of the Member States of the European Union. [[Union?]] It would lead to many negative consequences, particularly the deprofessionisation of teaching as a regulated profession, for whose performance it is necessary to first meet the established qualifications. Those are currently graduating from teaching at the faculties of universities that have him accredited, or from a 250-hour supplementary pedagogical study organised by the university. Workers without pedagogical education who do not complete the so-called pedagogical minimum are only a few hundred, approximately 2.4 percent of secondary school teachers, and the problem concerns only a few regions, so it does not make sense for me to approve this general exception in the law. Another negative consequence may be that the original students for teaching at the university prefer to choose another field, because they will be able to enter the school at any time as teachers without pedagogical education. Due to the high number of pupils with special educational needs in mainstream schools, including serious disability, a person without pedagogical education can do a lot of damage by his unqualified activity as a teacher. Of course, there have already been reservations about my proposal, all of which have been noted, and, as I say, I have only read it here for the reason that I should not abstain here in a detailed debate and merely apply to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u65	Thank you. I will invite Mr Philipp to the speaker's desk and we will continue with the general debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, let me read my amendment, which is proposal 1908. It is served by Members Philipp, Adámková, Crkvenjaš Němečková, Ochodnická, Bělohlávková, Mašek, Mádlová, Tesařík, Maříková, Štefanová, KaňkovskKaňkovský and Vondrák. I'm sorry it's without titles and no names, but for speeding up. [[12.40 hours]] Given that this amendment concerns the possibility of giving this body a decision whether to use the title in Section 18a of the School logoped or a special pedagogue for speech defects and disorders. We have proposed this name because it seems more appropriate and clearer for the profession to distinguish between the profession of health and the profession of school or pedagogical. [[Noise in the left side of the meeting room.]] I don't want to stall any longer. The reasons are within the scope of the amendment to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u67	Thank you. I'll ask for a quieter call in the left side of the hall. Thank you very much. We'll continue with the facts. Mrs Válková is reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mrs Válková would not report at all, but since there are not those who signed up for the YES movement, because it was originally their proposal, Mr Vondrák and Mrs Mádlová, I was also signed there, but it doesn't matter, so just for us I would like to support what my previous speaker said, namely that the clarification corresponds not only to feeling but also to professional qualifications. So we should support his amendment, and there should be a specialist special teacher for speech disorders and disorders that - I don't have it in front of me right now. But in any case, for those who are not present here, but are co-signers, we will certainly vote this way. And thank you for the job you've done. I think we've all enjoyed logos, and even each of us has become a specialist against our will to distinguish special educators for speech disorders and clinical logos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u69	Thank you. One more point of fact, Mr Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u70	I will only allow myself to respond briefly to Mr. Speaker and Professor in that I consider it sufficient to distinguish by the word "school," because Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on nonmedical professions, he himself refers to the logopedo as a logopedo in health care and he calls it clinical speech, in other words, distinguishing or admitting that the logopedo works elsewhere, and just reminding that the undergraduate study of both is the same and different in the postgraduate. Therefore, I think it is also appropriate to say that part of the study is common and will start to differ by specializations. That's why I think school logoped is a better name than a special educator and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u71	Thank you. Mrs Zajíčková, Mrs Bělohlávková, will be prepared. I will add a quick apology: from 14:00 to 18:00 Mr Klíma apologizes for work reasons, from 14:30 pm for work reasons Mr Sadovskýý Petr, Mr Vojtko Viktor apologizes from 12:45 pm for work reasons, Mr ZborovskZborovský Miroslav apologises from 12:30 pm for health reasons and Minister Baxa apologises from 5:30 pm for work reasons. So, Madame, your point of order. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u72	Yes, I will only respond very briefly to the amendment that has been made here, which is actually trying to prevent any confusion of terms. But if we agreed that the school logo was called a different name, it would be a special educator-logoped to correct speech defects, we would have a slightly different problem because it needs to be realized that if the position of school logoped is created, there will still be a position of special educator-logoped to work in the schools and classrooms. And besides special educator-logoped, there will still work in kindergartens and primary schools. So we have a few positions here that are going to focus on correction of speech, and that's what we're calling a school logoped, we've separated this name from the logopedic positions that already work in those schools, and they're going to stay. So on the one hand, we would avoid confusing the sense of the clinical logo, but we would confuse the public in relation to the positions of the logos that are already in the schools and stay there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u73	Thank you. Mrs Bělohlávková, Mrs Hanzlíková, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I also speak to the terminology of school logoped or special pedagogue for speech disorder. And you know what, of course, experts will distinguish and they will know, but I personally come in contact with my parents in particular, and believe that for the general people, which most parents are, that adjective means nothing. For them, the logopede is like a logopede, and I can already see my parents in my office saying, "Why are you sending us to a logopede when we're already going to one at school?" That is why I signed this amendment, and I think that I really do intercede for the terminology given to the perception of the lay public, which parents are, very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u75	Thank you for keeping time. Next, with a factual remark, I will ask Mrs Hanzlíková and my colleagues to keep their voice down so that Mrs Hanzlíková can make her point of order. So, colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down, and, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a factual note I also want to focus on the terminology of the school logo and the special teacher for speech defects, and I must agree that I am essentially convinced that this clarification, which I am sure colleagues think well, will lead to greater confusion in both the school and basic health areas than that school logo. Because there's one thing that's really important. We're not talking about a new position here, that's what's important to say. This is a position that has worked around here since the 1990s, and I really don't think parents would be at such a level that they're going to have a problem just recognizing the competence of clinical logoped and what school logoped has. And I dare say that here, because for 15 years I've worked in education, in very close contact with school logos, and I've never noticed a single problem, on the contrary. They complement each other, really wonderfully complement each other and there was never any problem. Please, I'm just, I'm really saying this from practice, and I'd love to, and I think, I've got a lot of connections between the logos, and I'm really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really. And now they've been called and are called school logos and it really doesn't make any difference in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u77	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Válek will speak first and then Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u78	I wanted the power to ask: the Ministry had a neutral position. I remember doing dozens of hours here with school psychologists. I think we're gonna vote, we're gonna make a decision. I don't think there's a way to convince anyone, and I just hope that the care of children with speech disorder improves. That's what I think is what we all care about, so that we just get better at taking care of our children, so that moms and those kids who are looking for someone to help them find him to help them well. And I can say for the Ministry that we will do the responsibilities as fair as possible and cooperate as much as possible with regard to courses and postgraduate education so that we have quality, and no matter what their names will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u79	Thank you. And the Minister of Válek will be followed by Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u80	He won't, Mr Vice-President, because he took the contents of my speech from me, and I just want to confirm it really to the word and to the letter. I think we've been through this for tens of hours, but now that I've heard it from the mouth of Minister Válek, my namesake, by your means, I totally agree with that. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u81	Thank you and we are returning to the general debate. Mr. Výborný is now signed in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u82	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I may just be a brief one. I didn't perform with the actual ones, because really the topic of speech, and not only in this law, it rules the House, I feel. However, I don't want to argue with Minister Válek and possibly with others here, but I'm going to repeat what I said here at first reading. Clinical logoped, school logoped, they're not two groups that have to go against each other, and they don't even go against each other. These are continuous containers that have to work together, because at that stage of child care with some speech defect, it may actually prove that school logoped is enough. And if it's not enough, then the doctor actually steps in, or in the medical profession, and that's the clinical logo. But I didn't want to go there, please. First of all, I am here to thank for the debate that is going on here, I think, in principle, in substance, and that is how it should be with the laws - I would say completely, regardless of the membership of the political clubs. I think it's a bit of a shame that the whole amendment is the most resonating point, such as the logoped one, because it really is not a key point in the amendment to the Education Worker Act. Much more should be reminded of the strengthening of the competence of school directors, which is happening, for example, in the discussed section 9a, when we are willing, under strict conditions, because there are clear boundaries, I said here today, to let the experts go to the schools, and de facto we are transferring the responsibility to the school head. But there are other important points that don't sound at all here, those modern-day mentoring positions that are supposed to help us to have quality teachers in schools. Quality education falls with a quality teacher. It is very simple and we know from statistics that it is the teachers who came just after graduating from university, most often within two years that leave the schools. And we need to keep the good ones there, and that's why these positions are being introduced, such as accompanying a teacher, a teacher, an adaptation period, and then, of course, some others, such as a class teacher and so on. However, I will limit myself here only to reading the amendment here now, which I will also briefly justify. In the system you will find it under the House document 1917 and it is an amendment that I submit, also my colleague Petr Gazdík, my colleague Renáta Zajíčková, Pavel Klíma and Jakub Michálek, and it concerns the amendment point, which concerns the school law, and this is also the important guarantee of 130 percent of the average salary for teachers. In this amendment that we are proposing here together and in agreement on the whole coalition's plan, we want to define this. So we define here that one-time teacher should account for at least 130 percent of the average gross monthly nominal wage per converted number of employees in the national economy. I'm just gonna take two notes on that. For one thing, we're talking clearly about teachers here, but we've talked about this repeatedly, even in the previous readings, and we're talking about 130 percent, which we also need to say clearly here on the microphone. This does not mean that each teacher of each school established by the region, municipalities, city, state, so that he will have 130 per cent of the average gross wage on his payroll. It is always calculated within the amount of salary for that particular school or school facility, and of course it remains within the competence of the school director to work with this volume as well, because there are 130 percent of the quality in the school, and then there are those who, on the contrary, do not reach 130 percent for any objective reasons. But we want to guarantee the volume, the volume that will actually go to schools, and that will be 130 per cent of the average gross monthly nominal wage per converted number of employees in the national economy, to be quite precise as the legislative text says. We can say more then, if necessary, before the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u83	Thank you. The next will be Mrs Adámková. I'll just point out it's 12:54 a.m., and at 1:00 p.m., we'll have to abort the meeting. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few observations, because I think the situation is rather difficult. However, I can see that this is taken from all angles, so I would only allow myself a few comments. First of all, as I do, I'm sure you also have a list of organizations coming from the Pedagogical Chamber that disagree with the proposal. I don't quite understand it, because it's either a communication problem, because I see here that everyone's trying to improve the situation, so I don't quite understand why the Dean's Association and the Czech Rector's Conference and so on, the History Teachers Association, English, didactics, Czechs, maths and so on, why she's dissatisfied. So I'm gonna ask you later, we probably have one more reading to do, and I'm gonna try to get an answer to that because it's just not clear to me. That's all. Otherwise, I would like to say that, of course, we have one problem, and these are doctors who teach in secondary health schools - other schools are not quite our place - or with a medical focus and somewhere a person's biology at selected primary schools. So, of course, it concerns, although not entirely of course, mass, but also our field. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Czech Technical University has had many decades of Masaryk's Institute of Pedagogical Studies, where experts are based, who can then teach mathematics, descriptiveness, information technology and can go there from the fourth year of college, or it is certainly very good. As far as the three years in this amendment are concerned, I must say that I remember for a long time and that teachers and elementary schools of the second grade were taking part in various classes and finishing schools. It's always been, it's nothing we don't know. Of course, that's possible. We don't even allow this here, which I think is good. They are people who come from other schools and complete their pedagogical education. And my question here is what Mrs. Engineer Peštová has already said: please, whether you have considered the three years quite well - it is the direction to the translators - because I can vividly imagine that the early teacher, whether he is an engineer or a doctor, is simply another master, will begin to teach. The learning, if it wants to do well, is really a full time, it's not just a break. Whether, if he should - maybe there will be women there, they can go to maternity leave if you want to put those three years into law, because he can break down the study and maybe he can quit in four years, and we'll throw him out? I don't understand, please just answer or think about it. And the other thing I have is, as far as I'm concerned...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u85	I will interrupt you, Madame. I'm gonna ask my colleagues to keep their voices down, calm down. On the one hand, I have information that there is an agreement between the Presidents of the Members' Clubs that we will discuss this point. I just want to make sure that the presidents are again assured that colleagues who are proposing amendments and have to sign up for microphones in a detailed debate on the amendments, if they received this information in good time, because I received it in the moment that in two, three minutes we are to interrupt our negotiations - because, if they have left the O.R. and are not present in a detailed debate, they would not be able to sign up for their amendments. So I just want to ask the gentlemen of the MPs if they'll confirm that we're going to continue after 13 o'clock, or we're going to interrupt that point with this reminder of mine. Madame, continue for now, and the Prime Minister's lords, please make this clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u86	Thank you. I wanted to mention the logo. I see it's caused a rich discussion here. Remember that we started out after we saw in practice a great deal of agreement between the two chambers, which is clinical logoped and therefore school logoped. Everyone wants to do well for the kids, we're in an ideal world, and I think they really do. And I understand all the colleagues who have been in practice for a long time and are saying something, but what we have sort of said here, what my honourable colleague, Mr Philipp, lectured here, is the agreement of these two chambers. So, of course, we can still work with it. Everything - I just want you to know that it wasn't our idea here, that we sat down and that we thought of it, but it's in agreement with these two chambers that they're able to work together like this. As far as the competences are concerned, there will, of course, be a need to work further with this. But I just want to assure you that the clinical logoped - and I have it really very fresh right now - the average time is many months and the experienced clinical logoped will tell you that rather than mismanage the defect, they prefer to have the "preferably wait" thing. [[13.00 hours]] So I just want to say that it wasn't something we, Members or Doctors would think of, but it's a lot of weeks working with both chambers to find consensus. As the House decides - of course it is a souvenir, it will be different. So that's just what I wanted to say, these few points, and I hope we can still talk about it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u87	Thank you. There is definitely an agreement that we will continue; colleagues with amendments are present in the hall. I will ask Mrs Berkovcová to prepare Mrs Zajíčková for the general debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u88	Thank you again for the floor. I would therefore like to introduce you briefly and justify my two amendments. I put the amendment under number 1863, i.e. the proposal to the House of Press 289, where in the present part of the first article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 releases part of the sentence " second grade primary school teacher or'. It is essentially that the recognition of qualifications for a teacher who does not yet have one would only be possible in secondary schools, not primary schools. This actually releases the most controversial part of § 9a, which as a whole is contrary to the Strategy of Czech Education Policy by 2030+. And as has already been said, a number of school organisations have also opposed this. The recognition of teachers' qualifications at primary school who do not have it could lead to many negative consequences, particularly the deprofessionalisation of teaching as a regulated profession, for whose performance it is necessary to first meet the established qualifications, and these are currently the completion of teaching at universities which have it accredited or the completion of a 250-hour supplementary teaching course organised by the university. Another negative consequence may also be that the original students for teaching in higher education prefer to choose another field because they will be able to enter the school at any time as teachers and without pedagogical education, and given the high number of pupils with special educational needs in mainstream primary schools, including serious disabilities, a person without pedagogical education can do a lot of damage without their unqualified guidance and by acting as a teacher. The second amendment under number 1864 to the Parliament's Press 289, in paragraph 99 above, is the wording of paragraph 99 below. 1 in Section 24d amends to "Class teacher in kindergarten, primary school and secondary school performs in classes or classes designated by the director of the school work related to direct pedagogical activity consisting in the promotion of healthy and functional relations between children and pupils, in the creation of a safe and stimulating environment for the development, education and education of pupils and children, in cooperation with their legal representatives and school staff." The original proposal was supplemented to include teachers and children in kindergartens. The Czech legislation currently lacks the legal anchoring of the activity of the class teacher, while in Slovakia the activity of the class teacher is enshrined in Act No. 317/2009 Zb., on educational staff and professional staff. Since this legislation has proved successful in Slovakia, it is proposed to implement it into Czech legislation. While the Slovak law includes both class teachers and kindergarten teachers, the original government proposal to amend the law on pedagogical workers unfortunately neglect the kindergarten teachers, it is therefore proposed to supplement its wording on teachers and children in kindergartens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u89	Thank you for your attention. Only for your speech - amendments or their performances serve rather a detailed debate, but you will still have to sign up to those amendments in that detailed debate, so just for the next time, I would point out that the introduction of individual amendments is part of a detailed debate. Mrs Zajíčková in the general debate. Mr. Mašek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u90	Thank you. I'm just going to respond to a few topics that have been raised here. I would like to say a little bit about a social educator who is not part of this - this position is not part of the amendment to the Education Worker Act. However, I would like to say that we are all aware that this is a very important and very beneficial role in each school. In the context of covid and in the context of the time we live in, this position is very important and can help schools. Only if I had the opportunity to talk to the field people, the field directors, I actually noticed that many directors still do not see this position so significantly, and they can't actually imagine what this position can do and how it can help them. So I believe that every director today has the opportunity to apply for this position under the Operational Programme Jan Amos Komenský, to apply for it in the context of the challenge that is currently underway, and can actually try out what this position of social educator may contain, so that is the right step. Because when the school terrain touches it, it will know what a social educator can do, what he can't do anymore, where his role is, where his contribution is, then it will be time for us to anchor this position in the amendment to the Education Worker Act. So I just want it to be said here that it is a very useful, beneficial role, it is another, in fact, support profession that is important in these schools, but it is not yet defined. Moreover, as has already been said here, it is on the border of the social area, the pedagogical area, no doubt there would be a debate about whether the name of the social educator is okay, so I think, let's give this position time, we certainly think about it, and we will definitely include it in the novel anytime soon, if there is an option. Then I would just like to comment briefly on the accompanying teacher. It has also been said here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies there was a round table on the subject of the accompanying teacher. I myself bring an amendment with my colleagues from the coalition, which improves the quality of work in schools, and above all improves the training of teachers or people for the teaching profession, because the accompanying teacher was originally directed only for university students who are preparing for the teaching profession, and this amendment extends this position also for an alternative way of obtaining teacher qualifications, i.e. for supplementary teaching studies. So the accompanying teachers will have not only university students, but also those who, for example, during employment or, for example, during studies - can be students of science faculties, philosophical faculties - who want to make this qualification at the time of study, will actually have the possibility of accompanying teachers. And last of all, it's the school logo. I understand, of course, the arguments of clinical logos, I think there's been a lot going on here, but if it turns out that it's really an agreement between the two associations, both representatives of clinical logos and the Association of School or Special Teachers, to be more precise, and school logos, if it turns out that it's their agreement, I'm not gonna defend that name change personally. But if it turns out that the agreement isn't here, then I can see the meaning in the terminology of the school logo, and why, I've already explained that in the last post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u91	Thank you. Another last one in the general debate, Mr Mašek. I'll load two apologies quickly. Mr Kobza Jiří apologizes from 13.05 minutes for working reasons, Minister Blažek Pavel from 13:00 to 14:30 for working reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u92	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, let me read this form of an amendment to the microphone resulting from today's rather rich debate. The proposal is simple. The text is added at the end of the paragraph in Section 9a para. If the staff member starts such studies within a maximum of three years from the date on which he started teaching, the headmaster of the school may extend his or her teaching activity until the completion of such studies, but not later than five years. Reason: A brief explanation is that we have discussed the need to acquire new educators and, on the other hand, to insist that those educators have appropriate education. I take my proposal, or the proposal of Jiří Mašek, Helena Válková, Ivana Mádlová and Berenika Peštová, so that there is a search for a good compromise, because here it was said that there is a need for quality educators, but the original proposal is actually lost after three years, and it loses some of those who are promising and should be able to perform that activity. We should let the principal of the school decide to give him the space at all. [[13.10 hours]] And I note that there are regions that have, for example, Karlovy Vary, and they indicate about 30% to 35% of teachers' unqualifiedness. Here it may prove that these people, if we give them space, start their studies, so they have the opportunity to complete it, because in practice - this is what my colleague Berenika Peštová, by your means, explained - then when they are to start as an unedagogical teaching, they have some problems with the teaching, they may prove to be doing it well, but they simply will not make it through the study. So I justified this, on the one hand, by saying that non-teachers belong in their own way, because we need to give them space as people who are interested in teaching at all, and I think this compromise amendment makes this possible. And who should decide more than the headmaster of the school who knows the candidate, and who can essentially decide or use the institute we're proposing. I would then sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u93	Yes, thank you. For you too, Mr Member: the amendments are tabled and justified in a detailed debate, but they will come soon, so you will have this opportunity. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the petitioner and rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? No. Mr. Rapporteur? No. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. The first is entered into a detailed debate by Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u94	Have a good day. I think I've said the reasoning in detail enough, so I won't repeat it. So I am signing up for Amendment 1442, which concerns the quality of speech education, and because I am the first, I also apply for the amendment, which, together, was essentially created by colleagues Berki, Klíma and colleague Zajíčková, and it has number 1911. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u95	Thank you. Next is Mr Šimek, Mrs Berkovcová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u96	I would like to sign up for Amendment 1888 on the remuneration for pre-school education and the school group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u97	Yes, thank you. Mrs Berkovcová, Mr Berki will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u98	Thank you. I hereby subscribe to Amendments 1863 and 1864, which I duly justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u99	Thank you. Mr Berki will appear, Mr Kettner will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u100	After all, I am still going to sign up for the amendment under the number of the whole group... that is, the House document 1911 and I have made the justification in violation of your guidelines in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u101	Thank you. Mr Kettner, Mr Philipp will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u102	Thank you. I would like to sign up for Amendment 1774. I gave a detailed explanation in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u103	Yes, thank you. Mr Philipp, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u104	Good afternoon. Excuse me, I would like to sign up for Amendment 1908. A lot has already been said about school pedagogues and school logos, so I don't think there's any further explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u105	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Výborný, Mr. Mašek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am willing to sign up for the amendment that I tabled on behalf of myself, my colleagues Petr Gazdík, Renáta Zajíčková, Pavel Klíma, Jakub Michálek, under the number of the House document 1917, and as I have justified in the general debate and as also stated in the written version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u107	Yes, thank you. Mr. Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u108	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for the amendment that I have read in the general debate, and I would also like to comment on the justifications that I made in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u109	Yes, thank you. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I'm asking if anyone is reporting from the scene to a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. Again, I'm asking for interest in final words. There is no interest on the part of the petitioner; there is no explicit interest on the part of the rapporteur, nor on the part of the rapporteur. In the course of the debate, there was no proposal to return the law or shorten the time limits, and I therefore conclude the second reading of this proposal, and I therefore conclude the discussion of item 2. It's 1:15 p.m., interrupting our meeting tonight, meeting at 2:30 p.m. on the agenda of the oral questioning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-23-ps2021-053-03-005-002.u110	Let me say hello to all of you. The next item is
