ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, I am opening the second meeting on the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you off, and I will ask all of you to sign up again with your identification cards. With the replacement card number 20, Mr. Havránek votes. If anyone else needs to issue a replacement card, please let me know the number. I also say that these Members have asked to apologise for their absence at our meeting today: Mrs Andrea Babišová apologize for the whole of the day on account of foreign travel, Jaroslav Bašta from the Potůčková day on medical Válková, Síla Bauer from the whole Lucie on account of foreign travel, Romana Bělohlávková from 13 hours on business grounds, Petr Bendl from the whole day on account of health reasons, Martin Exner from the whole day on account of foreign travel, Radim Fiala from the whole day on account of personal reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna from 12 hours on account of health Jan, Jiří Horák from the Šimek day on account of foreign travel, Ivan Jáč from 12 hours on account of health Martin, Jakub Janda from the Major day on the day on the day on which the meeting is based, Ondřej Kolář from the Jarmila Levko on the 10 hours of David time on the Michal day on the occasion of the Helena day on the Marek Novák on which the occasion of the working day on which Mr. We continue with our apologies: Martin Baxa apologizes from the members of the government until 9.30 hours for working reasons, MikuláMikuláš Bek from the whole day for work reasons, Pavel Blažek until 11 hours for work reasons, Jana Černochová from the whole day for working reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from the whole day for foreign travel, Jozef Síkela from the whole day for personal reasons and Michal Šalomoun from 12.30 hours for working reasons. That's how we settled the apology so far. With the replacement card number 32, Mrs Eva Decroix will vote. Today's negotiations will begin with the fixed items from the first reading block in the following order: paragraph 16, House printing 377, remission of premiums periodic penalty payments; also paragraph 21, printing 384, extraordinary remission and cancellation of debts; Furthermore, point 23, regional development aid; point 90, road traffic. Next, we'll continue with the points from the third reading block. It includes point 104, draft law on the protection of public health; paragraph 106, draft law on electronic communications, and subsequently points 103, school law, and 105, law on association in political parties. Alternatively, we would continue with other points according to the approved programme. Then for 13 hours, I'll recap - I'll ask for peace, you all know - we have a fixed point 139. It is a motion to dismiss Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Council, which is a House document of 1927. Then, no later than 13.45, we will first address paragraph 144, which is a proposal to confirm the Chair of the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and then to vote points 119 to 122. That's a recap so far approved. Now there is room for a performance to change the already approved agenda of the 63rd meeting. President Alena Schillerová is entitled to change the programme, and then there are a number of applications. So your space, Madam President, to change the show. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I have prepared today and request that this item be put on the agenda for today's meeting as the first item. I know that the cancellation of Czech Post offices is resonating this week, and I'm sure my colleagues will continue to do so with their regional experience. But next to that, there must not be another problem that very much resonates with this company. I have dozens and hundreds of people texting me, and I'm glad the Minister of Health is here, and I'm very welcome to comment on that, because we have very piece of information, I would say almost none. Not only citizens are turning to us, but we are also being approached by the medical professional public, I mean doctors specifically. I want to call this point the Lack of Antibiotics in the Czech Republic. As you know, the Czech Republic is going through the biggest antibiotic blackout in its history. Although the situation began to be unsustainable in the autumn of last year and the Ministry of Health repeatedly promised redress, unfortunately there is an increase in drug shortages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u3	Yes, I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues to ensure a dignified environment for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u4	Unfortunately, there is an increase in the lack of medicines, which has already spread from pharmacies to hospitals, and the information we receive these days is really alarming. It is no longer a cure for fever or eye drops, but a chronic deficiency of penicillin in all its forms, both in the form of tablets and syrups and in the injection form in which it is administered in hospitals. More and more hospitals admit that they cease to be able to receive new patients to inject penicillin. Therefore, I ask for the inclusion of this extraordinary point, once again, called Lack of Antibiotics in the Czech Republic. No less serious is the fact that the availability of penicillin leads, according to physicians, to overuse of less appropriate broad spectrum antibiotics and to deepen the problem of bacterial resistance. That's what the doctors tell me. According to world data, antibiotic-resistant bacteria are among the increasingly common causes of death. Without wanting to scare, according to respected medical authorities, the victims of bacterial resistance will increase, even in a way that in 2050 more people can die from a disease resistant to bacteria than cancer. Unfortunately, even Czech doctors now have a very serious reason to fear the spread of resistant bacteria, precisely as a result of prescribing inappropriate antibiotics accelerating the emergence of resistance. The YES movement has had an extremely critical government experience from the toughest months of the covid crisis associated with the lack of certain commodities that we have actively solved. Certainly, the drug crisis and the lax approach of the Ministry of Health will not just stand by. [[9.10 hours]] I called on the Prime Minister to consider calling a special health condition to address the causes of the current drug crisis, high illness, reduced antibiotic effectiveness and their lack of association. According to the information provided by the medical authorities with whom I have had the opportunity to speak, it is high-level time to start addressing this area, not only the lack of antibiotics, but also the causes of their rapid increased need and how to prevent it. No response yet. Given that the only answer to our calls for a systemic solution is the somewhat chaotic press conference of Minister Válek, last time with President Pekarová, and the related marketing actions such as the possible introduction of several batches of antibiotics from Asia, the implementation of which is first a matter of months and secondly certainly does not bear the characteristics of a systemic solution, we were forced to take the initiative into our own hands. On Wednesday, May 3, we will arrange a second round table in the Chamber of Deputies with the participation of the highest authorities in the field of medicine, medicines and the pharmaceutical market in general, inviting state authorities, authorities in the field of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance, representatives of business, distributors, and, of course, we will invite the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek and we believe that he will take time this time. I hereby cordially invite him and tell him in advance. Of course, the official invitation will come soon. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that anyone who has not been directly touched by the drug crisis is hardly aware of the problem. Unfortunately, the extent of patients who have already hit the blackout of one or the drug is growing at an incredible rate. It really is enough to take a few steps from the Chamber of Deputies - I did it last week - to any pharmacy and ask the present worker about his experience from the last weeks. You can be sure you won't find anything satisfactory. And you're lucky not to be in the position of a sick, family member of the sick, not to mention a seriously ill patient. When I shot a video on this topic last week in a pharmacy near the Chamber of Deputies, her co-owner told me that he would sign everything I said and that he would be happy to come to our round table, which, of course, I appreciate immensely. From the moment I personally began to engage in this mega problem, I received dozens or more hundreds of emails and messages from people who are desperately seeking medication for themselves or their relatives who spend hours and days circling pharmacies in fear that they will not get vital medicines for their loved ones. I can tell you that from the story of the lady who lives in the village, she takes care of her sister, who gets special pressure meds, drives around the pharmacy bus all over the county in fear of her sick sister, really freezes. There's a lot of stories. And we invite these people to the round table, too, because we think their voice must be heard, they must be heard as loudly as possible to make sure that the state authorities are doing their utmost, as is expected of them. Unfortunately, I have to say clearly that the Ministry of Health has not yet sufficiently addressed the pharmaceutical crisis. There's still no online inventory of sales and stock stocks, even if it's called for by pharmacists. By the way, they are often able to make a lot of drugs themselves, as the co-owner of the pharmacy told me last week, only they would need enough stuff to do it. The possibility of controlled distribution is lacking, which means that the state can talk distributors into how much, where and what goods they should deliver. There is no initiative that would lead the state to enter the area of stock management and drug distribution in the event of critical outages directly. The role of large distributors or the administration of state material reserves is not sufficiently used. In Finland, for example, the state can manage not only supplies to pharmacies, but also storage supplies themselves. Yes, it costs money, it means compensation, but I'm sure we can agree that the supply of drugs is a matter of strategic security for every state, and it just costs something. And it is a legitimate question of how much this security is worth to the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. So far, it seems rather rude. The big chapter is the promotion of drug self-sufficiency. Shouldn't the state be looking for ways to work with a domestic pharmaceutical business to increase self-sufficiency in critical medicines, such as Austria or France? Madam President of the Chamber of Deputies - I will use the term - has expressed a shady opinion on the address of the Asian telephone device on the speaker's counter as a poisonous spider. We've all seen the video, or maybe most of us, but the fact that our country is totally dependent on China and India for a large part of the active substances seems to be okay with its political side of the TOP 09. According to BIS Director Michal Koudelka, we cannot imagine what would happen if China stopped producing medicines for Europe as a result of an international crisis or conflict. I really don't want to live to see it, and I don't want my kids and grandchildren to live to see it. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, there are several topics involved. Firstly, it is an acute shortage of medicines across the Czech Republic. Second, it's antibiotic resistance. What are the prerequisites of our system to create suitable conditions for doctors to find the real cause of the disease and then its effective solution, which often takes much more time and attention than prescribed antibiotics? Is a comprehensive approach sufficiently supported by a remuneration from a health insurance company such as Switzerland or Germany, or does it lead to easier use of antibiotics? Thirdly, systemic medium-term solutions, support for domestic production, strengthening the role of the state in the distribution of critical medicines, analysis and application of functional practices from abroad. Ergo hammer, there's more than enough. For this reason, please include an extraordinary item called Lack of Antibiotics in the Czech Republic as the first item of today's meeting day. I'm taking advantage of the Minister of Health sitting here, and I'm sure he'll be able to answer these questions of mine, and he must be able to answer for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u5	Thank you. The proposal for a new point has been noted. Before I give another priority right, President Tomio Okamura apologizes until 10:30 for work reasons. And now there is room for Vice-President Havlíček with priority rights, also to change the show. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u6	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, I ask for the inclusion of a point that I have called the Solution of Overpriced Foods in the Czech Republic. My performance will not be long, and I understand that in light of the messed-up transformation of mail, in light of the valorisation of pensions, in light of the lack of medicine, it may seem to us that overpriced food is a less important issue. [[9.20 hours]] So I just want to remind you that this is not the case, because citizens are beginning to view food prices as one of the greatest threats ever. And here I will show the causes, the consequence, at the same time what the government is doing today, and what it should do, and I will call on the debate. I will be glad if this point opens today because we are in the same situation as we were in energy prices last year. We underestimated the fatal fight against inflation, although we pointed it out many times, it was left in the hands of the national bank. Fiscal measures were absolutely minimal. When so much regulation was required, it was late - while regulation is to be done quickly, immediately and rather briefly - resulting in a substantial increase in the energy costs of producers. Of course, they have increased energy spending and citizens, but now food prices are logically one of the consequences of extremely high energy prices for farmers or foodmakers. Everything was refused, it was done late, and the result is clear. The highest increase in electricity prices from all countries of the European Union, 62% for the first half of last year, the second half is not yet measured, and the highest electricity prices and the highest gas prices converted into purchasing power in recent months. This is undoubtedly one of the key reasons why expensive food is in the Czech Republic today. Next - the situation in the retail market. We have four foreign groups that control 70 percent of the market. The competitive environment is absolutely minimal, there is a dictation of prizes. Aid to agricultural producers has been underestimated. We've completely resigned to food self-sufficiency. And we still have to say that we have the highest VAT on food from all over the European Union. When I look at the countries around us, the Czech Republic 15 percent as far as Germany is concerned 7 %, Austria 10 %, Slovakia 10 %, Poland was 5%, and now it even put short-term food to zero. What is the result? As a result, we have one of the highest food prices in the whole of the European Union, and we could now take many examples. By far, it's not just the only thing I've pulled out with a little exaggeration. When we look at Easter purchases, 32 percent increase only last year. I take the basic food everyone buys at Easter. We couldn't care less about food tourism! Not only do they go to Poland, they always go there, but they go to Germany today, where they have two and a half times the average wage. They go there despite high fuel prices. We can't downplay it and say, "Nothing's going to happen economically." Doesn't it bother us that people spend money in Germany? Doesn't it bother us that entrepreneurs, establishments, colonials that are in the border area end for this very reason? And I can't stop nagging and not Babišův Babish's preciousness, we'll tell you again, we'll keep telling you. I know you don't like it, but at the time, you were spreading completely targeted misinformation in August and September 2021. At a time when the whole of Europe was recovering from the pandemic, at a time when inflation was growing everywhere in Europe, at this time when it was around 4%, you said it was Babišův's expensiveness. You built your campaign on it, among other things. Today you have fourfold higher inflation, today we are at 18 percent, even a little bit more. At that time we had inflation on the average of the European Union, today it is 80 percent higher. The MP is nodding his head in dissent, so I'll remind you of the numbers. According to Eurostat at the end of 2021, inflation in the Czech Republic was 5.4 % and 5.3 % in the European Union. I carry the numbers in my head. So you've reached 80 percent in one year of your reign! And we can talk about why, because they underestimated fiscal instruments, there was no regulation at all, and when, so, she came late, and what we suggested, you laughed at that. Okay, here's the result. But I would just like to say that your PR workers, who made this campaign in 2021, and in the light of how food prices are moving today, in the light of what inflation is, in the light of how much higher it is than in the European Union, might as well recommend you commit harakiri. But we're not taking advantage of it, we're not saying it's Fialův's price, we're just pointing out that something needs to be done about it. At least we pulled the handbrake at a time when inflation was growing and tried to do something about it. We downloaded VAT to zero, and it immediately showed up at least in December inflation. Unfortunately, you've already missed that. As a result, food - and you must see this - is becoming more expensive in the Czech Republic, while, paradoxically, in other European countries, it is flying down. Worse still, people only buy the most basic food. Look in the consumer basket, please. They resign from buying fruit, vegetables, protein and, unfortunately, we're losing weight. That's not the kind of thing we could just wave our hands at. This is, of course, reflected in the budget of public institutions. Schools, kindergartens, hospitals, all of them, of course, are affected by this. It affects gastronomy and not little, it gets expensive there. And, of course, instead of watching the growing investments of farmers, food farmers, we are growing profits. Who? Food importers. What does the government do for it? Once again, underestimating the situation, you're exactly the same as with the energy. Remember what you've been doing - you've been racking up all your problems. When we warned you about this, you laughed at us. You eventually introduced most of them, but unfortunately only after you refused, with a delay and admit it - under great public pressure. At the end of August, when you found out that Minister Síkela couldn't do it, you quickly transferred it to the Office of the Government, and you quickly formed a group at the Office of the Government, which started doing at least something with energy. Thank God for that. But the fact that it sewed with a hot needle is that the ceilings have been set too high in the finals that have been in force since 2023, and we find that the market price is already below the ceilings, so actually there's nothing to compensate for, it's just a sad game. I'm saying this because you laughed all the time, you underestimated it. And because of that, inflation jumped to the level that is here. And today it's very similar to food. Yes, thank God energy is flying down, but food prices are rising. Instead of doing something, you start doing research, analysis, and we're looking for the culprit. Okay, so we're pointing out different types of entrepreneurs. And they're acting market-wise, the businessmen. Here we have created a situation that we have four chains or four holdings, companies that completely control the retail market. And that farmers and food farmers are raising prices? Of course, they pick them up because their energy prices are rising. When we look at the prices of eggs, let's see how much the price of eggs in the retail sector has increased, what the margin is there, how much it has increased for those who supply them, that is, for farmers, and let's look at the structure of the pricing, for farmers, 70 percent of them is the price of feed. The price of the feed depends on the price of the fertiliser and the price of the fertiliser depends on the energy. So what do we do about it? We do not have much time and short term is the option to reduce VAT. I don't know what we're still hesitating about. Do you mind that we have the highest VAT on food from all over the European Union? It should have been done a long time ago. For another: the government has the tools to improve consumer awareness. Instead of trying to figure out which medium is conscious and less conscious to try to make different censorship here, let's use the media. You have the resources, the means, the competences and the education. In the long run, there is no other way but to start strengthening food self-sufficiency again. We're in a completely absurd situation, completely ridiculous, and this is where some of the MPs shouted it out a moment ago. Instead of supporting domestic producers, domestic farmers, our food men, in your holy war against Babiš, you mock our producers, you degrade our foodmen, our farmers just to play your own. They behave completely the other way around in Europe. Let's not look at who's big, who's small. I don't care if it's church sausages, whether it's Váhala, whether it's Madeta or anyone else, but it's logical that every state tries to support local producers because they employ and because they create self-sufficiency. We're going in the opposite direction. And we support who? We support importers, we support chains, those who pay dividends abroad in the finals. So please wake up. Stop taking people hostage and try to look at it a little objectively without the context of the holy war, because you're pouring out the bathtub with the baby. And the result? The result here is high food prices. [[9.30 hours]] Of course, it is still about promoting infrastructure within the framework of food distribution in the sense of new warehouses, distribution centres and so on, because it is, of course, about logistics, about more efficient logistics, it would lead to lower costs and so on. But all of this must be done by the government, all of this must be done by the Minister of Agriculture, not to see that we have the highest food prices. Of course we can also use the laws, thank God the law on significant market power is passed and we have a price law here. So, please, start acting, let's open this point tonight, and let's calm people down in at least one thing. Now that we've lost it at full power, let's not lose it at food prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just in case, it wasn't designed to place that point, was it? [[MP Havlíček off the microphone: First.]] First. And now I will just recapitulate everyone's knowledge: Minister Zdeněk Nekula is now reporting with priority rights and then there are about 23 applications to change the show. We're changing the show. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Now there's been a lot of emotional issues and words to deal with overpriced food. I came a little bit late, so I don't know if it came down to anything - overpriced but I really don't know what this was all about, here's the show a while ago. [[Inadmissible noise from members of the YES.]] We don't sit with our hands folded in our laps. The Inter-Respective Working Group is working, the Ministry of Agriculture is working, we are acting, we are taking advantage of all possibilities, legal options, control mechanisms to correct the situation. Unfortunately, some entities ripped off last year and basically launched a competition to make it more expensive. No one prevents the owners and sponsors of the movement here from discounting their food and doing what they call for. The subject of the egg sounded. I would just like to point out, yes, even in the media space at the turn of January - February it was said that we have eggs for 8 crowns, even by Easter eggs will cost 10 crowns. The opposite is happening - the egg can now be bought somewhere before Easter for an amount between 3 and 4 crowns, thanks to the systematic pressure we have made and we will continue to carry out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u9	I'm just saying that there's no new point in the proposal, we're at the point of changing the agenda, so please be lectured, even if you have a priority right, proposals to change the agenda. Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová is now registered, and I will ask her to come to the counter. Please, madam, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u10	Good morning, Madam President. I've got three points, so please, let's connect it to one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u11	Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u12	Thank you. The first point where I would ask the House for inclusion is now basically becoming a traditional point. Its name is Strange orders and the current situation of the castle Štiřín. Unfortunately, I have no other way but to read these topics all the time in the program, because there will be no oral questioning again this week, and I have no choice. I consider the situation at the castle Štiřín very serious. The castle Štiřín, which is the best preserved monument of the Czech Republic and was, or maybe still in the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been designated as unnecessary property and is directed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Office for Representation in Property Affairs, where it will be - or maybe already - offered for use by other state organizations, and if the candidate is not found, then it is going to be sold into private hands. Again, I note that this is the best-kept memory that has been used as a convention centre. [[He's shutting down for a moment for the noise in the room.]] In the area it has a large park and golf course, in addition it is located in close proximity to the capital city of Prague and highway D1 and the state has invested considerable funds into it in the past. For the first time since World War II, his economic activity has been abolished and the whole building is closed. The employees are on notice, and according to my information, they're at home. It is all the more surprising that the director of this facility, with the blessing of Minister Lipavský, hired a private company to maintain a golf course worth less than CZK 3 million in the regime, despite the fact that the employees who are in the statement could do the job for CZK 1.5 million. This is related to other questions that we have not found the answer to: Why can this company use the machinery of the Štiřín Castle? Doesn't he have his own? Will she pay rent for it, or how will the service of machines be financed for tens of millions of crowns? How will the fuel be paid? Another question is, why did the state budget last year invest high financial amounts on investments that were used to reconstruct the castle terrace - that can be understood - but also the parking system of CZK 6.5 million and the reconstruction of two kitchens and their equipment with top gastronomic equipment in the amount of CZK 18 million? It is all the more interesting that this work was handed over and stamped two months before the closure of the building and the release of all employees. Why did these investments, especially in the kitchens, take place when last year it was declared that Štiřín Castle would no longer be used by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that his fate was unclear? If the castle passes into private hands, these investments are given a completely different purpose. The question arises as to whether it is a gift to someone in addition to the lucrative object and the adjacent land. I consider all these matters to be very serious, including other unclear costs, such as the amounts paid for the legal services for a period of six months between 2021 and 2022 in excess of CZK 1.5 million, and I could continue this way. That is why I am asking for this point to be placed at today's meeting as the first point. That's the first point. The next point I would like to address is the point that was essentially provoked by President Markéta Pekarová Adamová in today's performance at Breakfast with Nova, where I performed in front of her. They asked me about her trip to Taiwan, the participants, and they also asked me about my opinion on the appeal attempt that took place here yesterday. What struck me was the President's answer to the question of what he said about my criticism that the trip to Taiwan was expensive. She replied that I probably have a oracle ball when I know the expense because she doesn't know it herself. And that's what really stopped me. If Madam President Markéta Adamová is at the head of the House and does not know when she is going on the road, what financial limit this journey has to offer to the Organizing Committee without any calculation of a delegation that was large, it gives me great distrust, and I therefore ask for the inclusion of this item on 18 April as the first item of the meeting to have sufficient time to find out the information that she will present to this honourable House so that we all have information so-called firsthand, so that we do not have to read in the various press that only refreshment on board the aircraft exceeded CZK 250,000. We'd also be interested to know who was on board the plane, because I don't think we know, they're just leaking some names. And I'm sure the House should be interested in how the costs of participants who are not members of this chamber have been covered. [[9.40 hours]] So I beg you to include this point on April 18th, which is Tuesday, as the first item in the meeting, and the title of the item is Chairman Markéta Pekarová Adamová's journey to Taiwan and billing this trip. And the last point I'm putting here and I'm asking for his inclusion is the situation in the Central Bohemia Region concerning closed branches in the territory of this region. [[Czech Post]] For your information, 24 branches will be closed in Central Bohemia. It concerns Venice nad Jizerou, Berouna, Brandýsa nad Labem - Staré Boleslav, in Kladno four branches close, in Cologne oddly enough only one, Kralupy nad Vltavou, Kutná Hora - three branches, Mělník - two branches, Mladá Boleslav - two branches, Nymburk - two branches, Podebrady, Příbram - two branches, Rakovník, Slaný, Zruč nad Sázavou. I would like Minister Rakušan here to explain to us what key this was, whether he informed the Governor, who happens to be on his side, is part of the STAN Bureau, and the coalition is on the ground plan of the five-police, whether the mayor has discussed this in advance, because according to what information I have from the region, such as Mladá Boleslav, no one has talked to them about it. There is a recently opened barrier-free branch of the Czech Post at the housing estate in Mladá Boleslav, so absolutely pointless. I have also heard from Slaný that no one has consulted with them, and I am concerned about this, and I consider it particularly from Mr. Rakušan as former Deputy Governor, for my work as a longtime member of the council of the Central Bohemia Region, as the long-time mayor of Cologne, which makes him very proud, very contemptible and unacceptable. I beg you to include this point as the second item in today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u13	Thank you. Everything's been marked. Mr Miloslav Janulík, with his proposal for a change of programme, will then be prepared by Mr Kamal Farhan, then Mr Kubíček. Please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I'm a doctor, of course, so I propose to place a point on the drug situation, because on Monday I dealt with it in the office, that the real problem is starting to be that I don't remember for years, or perhaps at all, and so I have been in practice for 40 years - and especially with antibiotics, but now with antidiabetics and in general with drugs, the situation is incredibly bad and it is not the current state, it takes a very long time, and I and my patients and our voters feel that little or nothing is happening in this matter. Of course the arguments - I know I'm not going to burden here with how the whole chain, how it all works, how we moved production to Asia, but unfortunately I have to say that I have 15 minutes to Poysdorf to the pharmacy to Mr. Dundalek and Mr. Master Dundalek in Poysdorf is available basically everything that is not available in our country. So there's no huge supply, but it just has a spectrum that we don't have. So the mistake is probably on our side, somewhere in our chain, which is why I wanted to ask the Minister to give us an opinion on this point. He's been expressing himself for weeks, but it doesn't have any effect. And on the contrary, I'd say it's getting worse, it's not getting better, the situation. No one can be happy about it. I can't imagine if there was something like this during the reign of Andrej Babiš, there would be such a screaming and extraordinary meeting and somewhere, and there's just nothing going on here because our media, they cover it, they look like there's no problem, it's actually just a lapal, but the moment you need something for yourself, and, of course, especially antibiotics, it's very trivial for us doctors, because I can't vote or shouldn't lege artis choose macrolidic and broad-spectrum antibiotics for pregnant in the first trimester for banal urinary infection. It just can't be done, it's not supposed to be like this, but unfortunately we have to touch these measures now. So it often forces us to proceed on the edge of lege artis, or the law of art. That's wrong, and I don't remember. Of course, it was different for the tour, but since then we may have moved somewhere, and I don't see any tangible efforts by the Ministry to develop anything and bring some packaging or anything like that. Unfortunately, there is no sign of this in the field, and I therefore ask that we place a point on the fixed points, if they are what they are today, which will be called the Situation of Drugs in the Czech Republic, and that we can somehow make a fuss here. And more importantly, I don't want to hear any more excuses and what's done is the question of what's going to happen. We have Easter in front of us, of course, that means basically four days off, which, of course, for us paramedics, we know well what it means that after the day off, everyone gets sick or before, because either they're really sick or they want to stay at home, and I'm not looking forward to what's going to be a week after Easter, because the weather doesn't record us either, we probably don't really remember this cold Easter, and it means that the demand for antibiotics is going to happen the way it's going down in other years, and now it's probably going to grow, and we just don't have it available. And I'd like to hear it, not when, but if we're gonna have it, because I've heard promises here before, I don't know, so much in that time, and it doesn't work. So please place this point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u15	Thank you, everything is marked, thank you for keeping time. And now Vice-President Karel Havlíček reports with priority rights. I just want to point out that we are on the subject of proposals for changing the agenda, but at the same time, applications for new proposals on the agenda points can no longer be added. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u16	Yes, thank you. Minister of Agriculture, you asked, what was that supposed to mean? Well, it was meant to mean that we have the most expensive food prices in the whole of the European Union. And if it leaves you calm, it doesn't leave us calm. And I wanted a fair discussion. I want to hear what you're doing to make sure that you don't, what you're doing to stop Mr. Prouza from rolling you, who is an advisor to the Minister of Industry of your government, who defends the interests of foreign chains here and who is trying to dismantle our farmers, our foodmen, and create here the appearance that the whole problem that is here is given precisely by the fact that they are the naughty ones who do so. To be objective, I have recently noted that you have finally begun to concern yourself with our farmers and have begun to defend their interests, but unfortunately the results are trivial. Are you okay with our people going to Germany to buy groceries? Are you okay with the fact that we have the highest VAT from all over the European Union? Doesn't it bother you that there's twice as much VAT as there is in Germany? I have put here four, five different proposals that are. It's not a big deal. If we hadn't opened the door, we wouldn't have discussed it at all. Good zaplaťpánbůh, at least with the exaggeration, the discussion has begun. Yes, you told us that only an idiot would do anything in the winter. So tonight you tell people that only an idiot makes an Easter lamb at Easter. Okay, we can discuss it this way. [[Laughter and applause from the left side of the hall.]] But please, let's just go down from the pear and not do what we did last year. It totally reminds me of the year 2022, like a copycat. You just laughed, you just bagged it, all energy prices, all energy prices. What was the result? The highest energy prices in terms of purchasing power. So now we're going to have the highest food prices. Please, don't let this get to the point, like Minister Síkela let it go, who eventually had to be taken away by the Prime Minister. Or maybe he'll take some of the agriculture under him, and he'll do it within his group, lobbied by various agents from all kinds of corporations, I don't know where? So let us try to do something so that we do not have to explain to our people that we have more expensive food than in Germany, where there is a triple higher wage. That's all you're asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u17	Thank you. As I have also pointed out in previous performances with priority rights, I will now point out that we are on the agenda change point, it is intended for proposals to change the programme. Please, there is now another Mr Kamal Farhan, who will be prepared by Mr Roman Kubíček, and Mr Robert Stržínek. Please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u18	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read here a new point concerning the expression of the Minister of Health, his confused, chaotic, incomprehensible and contradictory information, concerning the provision of a number of medicines. We are already struggling with the shortcomings of the availability of drugs in the Czech Republic, some drugs are missing not only because there are failures in the production and distribution chain, dangerous dependence of the Czech and European countries on Asian producers of active substances and unexpected coincidences of some infectious diseases. The buried dog is also in our system of pricing and paying for medicines. We will hear this several times in the coming years. This system works by pushing the prices of new and expensive medicines well, but low-price medicines push them out of the market to the point that manufacturers stop supplying them to Czech pharmacies. They are often available abroad. Then we see the Minister of Health and the President of the Chamber of Deputies playing business travellers and looking for medicines abroad, more or less exotic destinations, instead of adjusting the standard system for pricing and payment of medicines, which would also take account of the fact that drug producers are also involved in inflation, but that would cost some money that Minister Válek is not going to give and Minister Zbyněk Stanjura wants to cut them off. However, the entire amount of money for medicines is not limited to unit cheap generic products. It also significantly affects new expensive innovative medicines, which are still under patent protection. This concerns, for example, cardiology, oncology, diabetesology and the whole other spectrum. And now the Minister of Health is entering the game, who is dramatically announcing how much he has imported, when he has imported it, how much the consumption of one or the other has increased. He is able to announce within one day that he imported 300,000 packs in two hours, that he imported 400,000 packs of the same medicine, but he is unable to answer specific questions to show the simple excel table when he imported the medicine and how much it was imported into the Czech Republic. The Serious Minister would indicate consumption in years, after months, would compare the volume of individual medicinal products, molecules and give numbers before pandemics, after pandemics, would not pull numbers out of context, for example by comparing on a weekly basis. I'd like to introduce you once more to the use of oral antibiotics in packs after years - and I've already said that, but I'll say it again. In 2018 7 451 000, 2019 7 124 000, 2020 6 014 000, 2021 5 959 000 and 2022 7 928 000. That's 18.5% year-on-year, and we're approaching prepandemic years. All forms of antibiotics will no longer be loaded here, but between 2021 and 2022 there has been an increase of a total of 10 percent. For the sake of correctness, it should be concluded that no one here denies that if we compare the periods of January, February 2022 and January, February 2023, there has been an increase in the consumption of antibiotics. But it must be said that we are going back to normal prepandemic years, nothing extreme. It cannot simply be pulled out of context and reported consumption numbers after weeks, as Prime Minister Fiala did last week, for example. For the sake of correctness, it must be said that the figures given by Prime Minister Fiala are correct and come from a source, and I believe that even the Prime Minister would be able to say from what source. They deserve to be commended for that. Not for comparing weekly numbers. I'll state why. It cannot be blamed on managers of pharmaceutical companies and their inability to plan deliveries to the Czech Republic for sales numbers of pandemic years, because perhaps everyone who plans in these positions has common sense and looks at sales in context. Every doctor - and I believe that the Minister too - knows that antibiotics are seasonal and that antibiotics are scheduled to peak from autumn to spring, and not for summer. It follows clearly that the indication of the weekly comparison is misleading, purposeful and incorrect. The stocks that are being ordered for the season are also planned for three to six months. I am surprised, for example, that a large part is satisfied with throwing a percentage, throwing hundreds of thousands of packs back and forth. Sometimes even journalists don't care. No one will respond when the press conference announces that the drugs from Korea have been secured and the process will go in the standard way. Well, I'll allow you to say to the Minister that the standard method lasts nine months. That means you're not enough until September. [[- Please, time.]] Therefore, I dare to load a new point called Lack of Drugs in the Czech Republic and incompetent activities of the Ministry of Health. I beg you to be the last item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u19	Thank you. I beg you to keep your time. Mr Roman Kubíček, if he is not in the hall, will be included at the end, and then Mr Robert Stržínek, then Mrs Ožanová will be prepared. Please, your five minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I suggest we place a new point, and that's the Post Office breach in Valašské Meziříčí. I was informed about three of the four existing post offices in Valašské Meziříčí on Friday without any previous debate efforts. I consider it unacceptable, both the intention itself, but mainly the very form of the chosen communication. You said before the election that you would behave differently and communicate differently. Is this different? Unlike our main post office, which has limited parking options, is in the city centre and is barrier-free, branches with wheelchair access are cancelled. Handicap, not only for wheelchairs and disabled people, but also for moms with strollers or for people with mobility disabilities. Dear Minister Rakušan, explain to me as mayor of Valašský Meziříčí, why and based on what data do you cancel three out of four mails in our city? Why is there no debate about the town's involvement in their operation, or at least in urban buildings, offering zero rent? Why isn't anyone communicating with me as mayor? What was the algorithm to shut down the branches? How do you explain that in your hometown, in which you were concerned, in Cologne, there is only one branch being cancelled, and in Valašské Meziříčí three in our country? Isn't that weird? Is it nepotism, horniness, or double standards? Isn't it necessary that where the mayors of the five-calice are, you have different rules than in other cities? If you want to disprove these assumptions, publish all data about broken branches, but also about those that remain in operation. I consider it your duty. Minister, please do not hide behind the CEO of Czech Post Miroslav Štěpán. This gentleman is just following your orders. And don't tell me you haven't seen the list of broken branches, like your colleague Jurečka, who, unlike the entire Republic, still hasn't listened to the recording from Viktor Najmon's former CEO. Some things take you, dear government, an unusually long time to cancel 300 branches of the Czech Post but you were surprisingly fast, so fast that you couldn't even consult the mayors. And the sad thing about all this is that the mayors of STAN, who may also be involved, are here between us, or maybe they're not, just sitting there with their eyes. Did they get it from the chief befel, so he's silent - or is he one of the lucky ones that you don't disturb three of the four post offices like we did in Valašské Meziříčí? There are many questions, and I ask you, Mr. absent minister, to answer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u21	I'll ask the assignment. [[Member of the Trench: As the first point after the already firmly placed points.]] Thank you. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and subsequently Mr Ladislav Okleštěk are also registered. Madam, your five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest, ladies and gentlemen, to include the first item today entitled Mathematics of the Czech Post. Maybe I'm expressing this differently than colleagues, maybe more technically, but at least in primary school, most of us learned that 3 doesn't equal 2 that it's an inequality, that it's not an equation. Please, at Moravian Ostrava and Přívoz, which is the central district of Ostrava, such a small 300 thousand city, the mayor felt that two mail offices were being cancelled. Unfortunately, however, he reads the papers, as well as the officials, and found out that branch three is being cancelled. So either journalists lie - I don't see why they'd lie about the numbers of broken branches - or someone else is lying. Or the one who sent a letter to the mayor lies: We only cancel two branches for you. I believe that such confusion and lies should be confirmed or refuted by the Minister. [[10.00 hours]] Another interesting thing is, I read it in the paper, it concerns my hometown again, which is Ostrava, interesting. In our country there are large city districts, such as Ostrava-Jih has nearly 100,000 inhabitants. Do you know how many branches there will be for 100,000 inhabitants? Two, ladies and gentlemen! So I understand that the Czech Post believes that for 50,000 people, one single branch of the Czech Post is sufficient to deliver pensions, subpoenas from the courts, subpoenas from administrative authorities. Really for 50,000 a branch? Is everybody crazy? I'm sorry to use such an emotionally colored word, but I'm sorry, there's a perfectly appropriate situation for me. So I'm wondering, because, as one of my colleagues has already said today, or more importantly, there are no interpelations, and they won't be, if really 2 is equal to 3. I learned something else at school. I mean, there are three of the two canceled branches, so somebody's lying, and if it really takes one single branch to make 50,000 inhabitants. I hope someone answers me. I'm afraid not, because it suggests their diversity in these benches at the moment. The minister knew what we were going to talk about today. I don't know, of course, he may have work reasons, but I think he should at least listen to these suggestions so he knows what's bothering people. Or the question is, does he even want to hear it because he doesn't care? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, if you've kept listening to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u23	Like the first point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u24	Madam President, as the first item in today's negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u25	Thank you and then Mr Okleštěk is signed in, Mr Jan Volný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that Minister Rakušan is not here. I would like to place the point of the Interstate Minister's rušení - I'm sorry, I wrote Rakušan for the application, I mean the Rakušan - in the Olomouc Region. In Olomouc County, 20 mails are cancelled according to the sign that came in. It's not a big number from the point of view of an absolute number, but if we look at the Olomouc region's roughly 630,000 inhabitants plus some small ones, it's no longer a negligible number. And what's saddest about it is that the mail is being canceled right where we have a lot of residents on the estates. The housing estates are one of the original housing estates, which are now inhabited by the vast majority of the inhabitants of my age and older, so these people have movement and other problems, and walking distance up to 3 kilometers for them is no big hit parade. I'm a little under the impression that those branches whose buildings are beginning to be very attractive to some buyers are being interrupted. I would like to know how it will end up, what those branches that will cancel, what will be with them, what their fate will be, where they will be transferred, sold, and so on, because it seems to me that the selection criterion was not a criterion according to the actual use of the post office, it is only hidden for it, but it was a criterion of the lucrativeness of most of these properties. I am terribly sorry to hear that, because very often branches are cancelled on the squares, in historical centers, for example in Olomouc in the center of the town of Horní náměstí, which is actually the second largest sightseeing reservation in the Czech Republic. That's what needs to be realized, that's where the mail is being canceled, and there's all the authorities, the banks that I think are making enough of the mail. So I'm wondering, please, what are the criteria? I spoke to the Minister as Chairman of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development because we consulted the Committee Bureau whether or not we would call on the committee on this matter. Most of the point was that there's no need for us to wait for the measures to take effect. So I approached him personally as a person, as an MP and the Minister promised me that representatives of the management of the Czech Post would go to all these cities and municipalities and negotiate conditions, possibly to amend this provision. I've been in touch with the mayors, the mayors. The truth is that the meetings are already being arranged in some places, but it is also true that the initiative has often been on the side of these mayors. In Olomouc to cancel seven post offices is a lot for me, but in Prostějov to cancel four post offices, in 50 thousand city, almost 50 thousand, there is even more for me, and in Šumperk from four post offices leave only one - that is a real farce compared to Cologne. So please, to place this point of interference with the post Vít by the Rakušan in Olomouc Region as the first point, because I think mine is the most important one, and I would like it to be the first point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u27	Thank you, it's clear. Mr Jan Volný is also signed in, and then Mrs Renata Oulehlová can prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u28	Hello, thank you, Madam President, colleagues, fellow ministers, there are only two. All right, Mr. Colleague. I'm sure there's a good reason he wants to be the first. I would ask that my point, which is called the Distress of Branches of the Czech Post by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan in the Plzeň Region, be placed as the second point of this meeting. Now I'm just going to sum up a few things that amaze me and which I think we should learn from the Minister at this point on this point. For one thing, it is absolutely necessary for him to present to us as Members, but above all to the mayors and captains the principle of how these branches have been selected, who have been selected and some system of how this list has been established, because even in the Pilsen Region, especially in Pilsen, branches which have wheelchair access are completely illogically disrupted and are absolutely necessary in the context of large housing estates, in order to make the availability of particularly old and infirm people. It's very startling, and I'm very sorry that the system was chosen so that first it decided, first a system was made and a list was made without anyone seeing it, and then when it got out, quasi-riding around the Republic and negotiating with the mayors. I mean, it should be the other way around. I have to confirm here - I don't know who said it here before me - that there are really a lot of illogical discrepancies in these lists, because we read in Tachov's paper, for example, there were large lists that will cancel two branches, but there is only one branch written in another official document from the Ministry of the Interior. So what's the deal? I think these things should be put on the table and we should be able to answer them to our mayors, too, because the people in our areas have elected us and we are obliged to tell them what's going on. [[10.10 hours]] In conclusion, I would like to call on and ask my honored colleagues, especially Rudolf Salvetr, who is now coming, which is Mayor Klatov and he cancels three branches - if something has not changed, if you have not already advocated something, but I do not think that - then further, my colleague Ženíšek, Bernard, Baxa, my colleague Nový, but also my colleague Opltová and Pošvářová, to vote for this point, for inclusion, because they are members of the Pilsen Region and should have the comfort of our voters and our fellow citizens as well as I do. Please place this item as the second item of today's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Everything is marked. Mrs Renata Oulehlová is now in office, Mr Patrik Nacher can prepare himself. Please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u30	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to sign up for a point. Closing the post office by Minister Vít Rakušan in the Karlovy Vary Region and I would like to place him as point three. Our Karlovy Vary region is structurally disabled. According to the European Committee on Regions, our region is the fastest poorer in the European Union. The closure of branches of Czech Posts will deepen our lot even further, how we live. As for the age structure of our inhabitants, such as Sokolov, there is really a higher age. One post office is now closed in a housing estate where half the population lives, more than half of the population, almost 11,000 people who came to Sokolov in the 1970s to start working on a shaft to mine coal and supply the whole Czech Republic, and de facto our city is still doing so. So they're gonna balance from us, but you're not gonna give us anything back. There were five post offices in Sokolov once, now the last three, and the decision that will now be made will only be one post office. We have no idea what it will look like in our entire Sokolov ORP, where unfortunately there are many people who are in the register of the Labor Office, often deliberately avoiding work and, of course, reach the post office for benefits. What is happening at the offices of work in our regions is difficult, challenging, we are trying to help officials through the city police, through crime prevention assistants. It's similar at the post office. And if there's a payout, the deadline, and there's really only one post office, I can't imagine what's going to happen not only in our country, but also in Chodov. I'd be very interested in the analysis that was about how the mail was going to close. On social networks, such photographs began to circulate, where Minister Rakušan sits and ships play. And sometimes I feel a little bit like it really was C6 - mail 5 in Sokolov sunk. So I would really like it never to happen again that ministers will not communicate with the city's leadership on such sensitive issues as reducing the comfort of all citizens of our cities. So I would ask you once again to include me as point three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u31	Yes, it's all marked. It is now Mr Patrik Nacher's turn to prepare Mr Aleš Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I was not heard about the inclusion of the point of financial effect of the disturbance of Czech Posts. I asked because we had about five of these proposals so that at least one of them would be approved. It didn't happen. It means that the subject here is being discussed in such a weird way, sort of like a hallway, and it's officially not being discussed here. Today I decided to take this from another point of view, from the point of view of the region, in this case also the city from where I am, it means to place the point of breaking mail in the territory of the capital city of Prague. Here I see our honored mayor. I will begin by telling you here, quoting the resolution of the mayors of Prague 1 through Prague 22, only the most important part to justify what I said yesterday and to underline it twice. This is not a fight against the opposition versus the coalition. This is a duel, I would say, of sound common sense and some quick, rapid decision, because those mayors 1 through 22 are not mayors for YES, just to be honest. The mayors of the city districts of Prague 1 to 22 consider the Czech Post to be a very unfortunate communication towards the individual parts of the city, to which information about the cancellation of postal offices was sent to the data box at night on 31 March. The proposed list was not consulted in any way and none of the urban areas was consulted, nor were the relevant reasons and arguments put forward for the proposed solution. I'll move on. Mayors of Prague 1 to 22 - these are the largest - require information and arguments on the basis of which the proposed list of broken mail presented on 31 March was created. We demand explanations and data from which the proposal was prepared, preferably before the meeting itself between representatives of the Czech Post and the mayor of the city parts. And the last important thing, the mayors of these urban areas require the possibility to take into account in the proposals specific local criteria of the type of transport service, territorial barrier, density and population, and similarly according to the knowledge of the management of the urban areas concerned in Prague. That's what I was talking about yesterday. The result cannot be that there is only one branch left in Prague 3, for example. That's just not possible. Or the fact that in Prague 4, which is the largest part of the city, five branches will be closed. It's just economic logic - I was talking about it here yesterday and I didn't get an answer - it doesn't make economic logic. It doesn't, because then the ratio doesn't work out, which means the ratio of the number of branches per population it serves. It is simply not possible that the number of branches per hundred thousand city is three and the number of branches per twenty thousand city was two necessary, it simply is not possible. That's where the economy's going. This means that I think it is best seen in Prague. I would like to place this point this time from the point of view of the capital city of Prague, with the fact that I have read here the resolution of the mayors of the city parts, where the mayors are for all the different parties, including, of course, the mayors for government entities. Then I would just point out that it is not on purpose from the opposition, but it is also, please, the opinion of your own party colleagues. I would like to include it, as I understand it, in some way gradually, so I would place Prague as point 4 of today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u33	Thank you, marked. Next, Mr Aleš Juchelka, who is not currently in the hall, is in order to lose the order, then Mr Bělica, who I do not see in his place, also loses the order. Then Mr Mašek is signed in and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková can then prepare herself. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would ask for two points. That first point would be mail jamming. A new model of the operation of the Czech Post must be discussed in advance with the mayors, mayors and opposition. Then the second point of interference by the post office Minister Austrian in the Hradec Králové Region. They have a lot to do with each other. Many of the previous speakers here asked the Minister for an analysis that said there was an administrative cut of 300 post offices. I don't want to ask about the analysis because it was obviously wrong. We see this from the response of most mayors and mayors of municipalities and cities affected by it. Specifically, in our region the interference affected in Hradec Králové seven post offices out of fourteen, in Jaroměř two mails out of three were cancelled in Jaroměř, in Náchod similarly two mails out of three, in Trutnov only one mail out of three. I could go on like this. Of course, I also have the responses of individual mayors and mayors of larger cities. For example, Pavlína Springerová, Mayor of Hradec Králové, said: "I have received a proposal from the Czech Post administration for a list of branches that are proposed to be cancelled. Half of these places are supposed to end up in Hradec Králové. I consider this step in view of the availability of postal services especially for Hradecké seniors to be liquidation." In his statement, he talks mainly about the Plachta housing estate, 35,000 housing estates, where three branches remain one large zero, or the whole housing estate will have to be handled in the surrounding parts of the city. Jan Borůvka, Mayor of the City of Jaroměř: "Again, a list of branches was published which the Ministry of Interior plans to cancel. I am appalled by the solution to how the government wants to save money. Grandmothers, grandfathers will have a slightly harder access to the ministry again. There is basically half of Jaroměře, namely Josefov, who is not served." Jan Birke, Mayor of Náchod for ČSSD: "As mayor, of course, I cannot agree with the decision of the Government and the Minister of the Interior of Rakušan. I am very sorry about that decision, which will be the oldest ones in particular. In doing so, restructuring is certainly necessary. I understand the austerity measures, but I assumed that the mayors and mayors of the cities would be discussed in advance." And now I'd like to continue what I'd like to ask if those points are going to be included. I would like to know from the Ministry of the Interior and from the administration of the post office economic comparison of the operation of stone classic mail versus post office, which are negotiated in the Posta Partner system. Here I would like to remind you that this Post Office Partner system has already been prepared by our government. The minister basically had him in a drawer along with the post office, and they could work on him. In the current state of the 3,200 branches already 800 works in the Posta Partner system, i.e. it is a quarter. There was a way for the ratio to turn around and 3/4 to be a Post Office Partner in cooperation with self-government and with individual entrepreneurs in cities and municipalities. My question is, how's the partner mail's economy coming out, how's the stone mail economy coming out, and why hasn't this program been continued? Yesterday, I was quite appalled by the Minister of the Interior's statement that the post office will borrow CZK 8 billion in the following period essentially to maintain its operation in this narrowed system. This clearly seems to me to be the liquidation of the mail, because the mail will fall into similar problems after spending the 8 billion over a period of two to three years. So from my point of view, it is all unconventional, and the challenge is that the government suspends this disturbance by blunt cuts, it has begun to negotiate with the mayors on the form of the economic operation of the Czech Post using the proven Post Partner system and to put numbers on the table and discuss how to correct this situation really so that the Czech Post is not doomed. In my opinion, the current actions of the Home Secretary are moving towards this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u35	Do you still have any wish to place these points at when?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u36	Yes, I would like to place these points as the fifth and sixth points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u37	Thank you. I now have Marian Jurečka's priority right to apply to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u38	Thank you very much. When I listen here for several speeches by colleagues from the opposition, which are practically very identical in terms of content, very similar, it reminds me a little bit that there are now the demands of changing the agenda of meetings in the spirit of obstruction, because it has been an hour and twenty-five since we are discussing the agenda of the meeting. That was not a habit in the past. I think if there's a requirement to place this point, that you just have to say it once or twice, but it sounds here repeatedly and differently different points here, then on each part of the territory, it's probably not entirely logical. But that's the thing about strategy. I would like to make a comment on this as a person who, on the one hand, was in the past and, on the other hand, has seen this in opposition for the last four years. I have to say that I am quite sorry that many of the things mentioned here have not been mentioned in the last four years of the past government, because what the Czech Post is in today's situation is to some extent also because the state here has not fulfilled legal obligations towards the Czech Post. I remember the debates that we had at the coalition level during Bohuslav Sobotka's reign, when finance minister Andrej Babiš sat there, who refused to transfer the funds that the Czech Post was supposed to receive under the law at the time, and the funds were also missing to restructure the Czech Post under completely different conditions. It could have been in a much better situation, with far less negative effects. Unfortunately, the Czech Post did not help the previous government in many ways to ensure that it was a business capable of providing quality services in the territory for citizens. Czech Post has become the target of a large number of jokes, which unfortunately are often also true. I would just like to return this attention to the fact that, now that I hear how many Members here come up with various proposals to change the programme to the Czech Post, I have not actually heard that any of them who were here in the previous House would speak on the topic of the Czech Post and the need for this solution in times when it could be handled much better, with much less impact. Then I'd also like to draw the public's attention, if that's what he's watching. We have here some very important points of today's programme, such as the continuation of the Merciful Summer Institute in the area of further tax administrative executions. It's really about hundreds of thousands of people here. I think that's a topic that's also very important, itchy. There's been an upcoming efficiency since 1. 7. and I would just also like us to be able to discuss this topic today, move it forward, because these people are really waiting for it, which can really help them this year. So I'd hate to see the points that follow, which my colleague and I have here, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, to be framed, and not tonight at all. So I also want to focus on what we have in front of us today in this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u39	Thank you. I'm just going to point out that we're on the agenda change point, so I'm asking very much for us to be on the agenda. [[The chairman of the YES, Andrei Babiš, is applying for the floor.]] However, I assume that the President is applying with priority rights, because the facts are now not possible. [[Yes.]] So, of course, I'll give you room with priority rights like everyone else, just ask again, let's be aware that we're at the point of changing the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u40	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to perform, but we were yesterday - I suggested a point and I will suggest it again - they wanted to discuss the Czech post office and the arrogance unit, Mr. Rakušan, of course attacked just like Minister Jurečka. He's talking about Babiš again, that's all you can do. But Babiš was never in charge of the český Post. Yes, as Minister of Finance, I always insisted that the Czech Post's management be transparent, which is why I did not want to give money. Czech mail destroyed ODS - IPB for the first time. I told you yesterday, the articles, how much money they took from the Czech Post. And once again, I'll remind you of a $300 million bribe. At that time your Kalousek was there, he was still in KDU or where he was, because he was losing control, once it was KDU, then it was STAN, then it's Topka, then it's Michalik, who miraculously got rich at 200 million - Creditanstalt Investment Bank. What are you talking about, Minister? About what? [[10.30 hours]] Mr. Rakušan got off here yesterday, and yesterday we saw a video of Mrs. Bobošíková. Those contracts, Kantar agency, 2 million, an agency that exclusively works for Czech TV, which, of course, is pro-government television. They won your election twice, or presidential, and you... You have butter on your head and you have the nerve to stand here! Yes, Czech Post destroyed traditional parties - ODS, KDU, ČSSD. In the Czech Post was Chovanec, doing business. The same agency that advises the Prime Minister! I mean, the Růžička's there, the whole OKD crew and everything. What are you talking about? If only you'd shut up! Yes, Babiš never supported corruption. So look at these contracts leaking into Cologne, and I don't know what they were making - poop or what you're talking about? It's unbelievable, those contracts! And they're blacked out so people don't know what. There's still some media training. They're still training someone at the post office, doing business, doing business. So I don't understand why you're taking me to my mouth here, do you? We're not going back to the past, we're sitting together in the government, I'm not going to tell it all again. Then leave me alone! I started the anti-corruption movement, and it was historically stolen at the post office. Business was done, deals. Someone was still training there, and now they want $40 million for what? Why 40 million? So I repeat that I have always criticized the Czech Post, refused to support the Czech Post when we were doing weird business there, and we have repeatedly dealt with the ČSSD to give it to us, the Czech Post. I put Kratina there, the best director of the Czech Post. He got fired because he asked, he got fired, Topolánek fired him. That was the best director, and he had a great plan. So you destroyed, traditional democratic parties, the Czech Post, that you robbed her of the biggest deal, and you sat in the government and in June 2017 after Sobotka kicked me out of the government, signed a ten-year contract with the Czech Post from 2017 to 2027, so what are you talking about again? We had nothing to do with this. Yesterday I made it clear here that we fixed up businesses that were tunneled, like ČSA, like the airport and so on - business, CEPRO and so on. We fixed them up with what I had in my portfolio, and I didn't have the český mail, and I kept texting to tell me what kind of business they were doing there. So remind yourself of hrubý, and I can read it to you here. But I'm not gonna read it to you today, there's gonna be another opportunity. So leave me alone, don't talk about Babiš. He's been there - Rakušan has it for how long? What's with the contracts over there? What kind of contracts are these? Let him explain why there are some contracts to Cologne, how he split those branches, the closure? Based on the fact that Půta said I didn't want it, then Kolín didn't you? We have never, the YES movement, politically approached things, never, never, not at the edges, not at the villages. We're everyone's objective. So I'd like very much, Minister, don't talk about me and the Czech Post. I'm really loaded here, and I don't want to go back to the past. Czech Post is your problem. Now Mr. Rakušan wakes up, comes up with some nonsense and rejects the simple thing - Mail Partner. Give it to the mayors! Here she performed for Sokolov and so forth. We just wanted to have a normal time. What's the answer? An arrogant Rakušan, and now you're attacking me again. Leave me alone! Try to find something other than Babiš! You're still making excuses for our government. You've destructed everything we've prepared. This is the Minister of Health, who walks and says: The Pavilion of Prevention in Brno - bad, Babiš invented it. National fight against cancer - bad, we do business in Motol and so on. You've been there long enough. You're just profiting from our work. Freeways, bypasses, all you cut tapes is our work. And the Czech Post is your problem. You destroyed it after the revolution, and your party was also involved, or that product of yours, which then started the ODS B, today it's called TOP 09. So I'd really like you to leave me alone, Mr. Secretary. I've always insisted that the Czech Post be administered transparently, okay? And I criticized that. And then, of course, I refused to support the Czech Post, because there are deals. Well, look at the video Bobošíková made. I'll give you copies of the contracts Mr. is in there, and I don't know who's doing business, who's in there. So if you want to compete with me here in information, we can. I have a good memory, Minister. So you better take care of the employment office, go behind the counter, so the benefits aren't delayed, so people don't go there. You switched everything there, by the way, Mr. Pospíšil, Director of Department 22, you also fired, and only business for your fellow partyers. That's how you do the social services, isn't it? No, that's how you do it? So please, we can compete here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u41	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u42	Mr colleague, Mr Andrej Babiš, through Mr President. For starters: please do not judge by yourself and your ways and functioning in your business and other people's activities. If you want to say something about business here and the same thing about specific people, including myself, then document it or file a criminal report, but you're always going to wrap it up in that kind of popular language, but you're saying a few things that obviously don't add up and don't have anything to do with each other. I'm gonna start with what you said here. You said you did everything brilliantly, and now somebody's cutting tapes and stuff. If we objectively agree that the preparation of transport structures in the Czech Republic lasts at least ten years, then you also need to say that the tapes that you and your members of the government and others have edited are not usually the constructions that would choose territorially, constructionally and budgetly and compete with only one government and one minister, then it must also be said that where you were, it was also the work of the previous transport ministers, several governments, at least two, sometimes three. So let's be fair and fair. You can always say that all the best you've done in the world and everyone else are assholes, and as you paraphrase these people and say they can't even build a doghouse, and you say that about people who are people who do small things, but important things in normal lives, mayor communities and the like, and you insult these people. As far as the český Post is concerned, we need to know what the genesis was like. The genesis really started under Sobotkův's government, when I remember Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, the Interior Minister clearly said: There are services that the Czech Post provides to citizens of this country on the basis of the law, and the law says that these services should also be compensated if these services are not economically viable in themselves. This problem, and those who devote themselves to the Czech Post, know that it accumulates for several years. During your reign, the debt to the Czech Post was around 2018 to 2019 more than CZK 3 billion. That was objectively known, and you were personally involved in those negotiations. Denotification with the European Commission has been addressed, and it is a accumulated debt that grows here, when after the Czech Post with the law it wants to secure some services, and it is not objectively compensated. If there are any other doubts you may encounter from the point of view of some non-transparency and all that, then hand them over, give a clear suggestion to investigate. But as prime minister of the former government, you're actually going to say that there was a Czech Post office here that worked non-transparentally? You, as Prime Minister, had the Czech Post under you for four years in the portfolio of members of your government, which you did not show sufficient interest in transforming into modernization to be effective. [[10.40 hours]] I am simply pointing out here that, if I am hearing here today about the tenth, twelfth Members, a Member who brings and reads points from the opposition on the same subject, I am simply asking where these Members were two, three, four years ago to show the same enthusiasm about how the Czech Post will provide quality services to citizens. That is what I have pointed out, and at the same time I have said that there are a number of very important, necessary laws that can give hundreds of thousands of people in this country a chance to get rid of their liabilities, their debts, their executions, start a second life and have that chance. Those are the laws that we can discuss here today relevantly, we can move on, and this is the hour forty, when the time is running out, which bears the signs that it's beginning to surround itself here. That's what I wanted to point out, let's say. I was aware that there was some agreement between colleagues across the parliamentary clubs, that today the debate would be relevant about changing the programme, and quite soon we will go to specific points which, for hundreds of thousands of citizens of this country, can bring about a significant improvement in quality life, the Institute of Merciful Summer can continue in other types of executions. That's what I wanted to point out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u43	Thank you. Mr. Babiš is claiming priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u44	Minister, I don't live in politics unlike you. You were supposed to stay in agriculture, but you didn't succeed there. So I'll tell you again, and we've been in the joint government of 2014, since we took over. Undrawn European funds, programme 2007, 2013 undrawn. I remember doing everything we could to exhaust. Pumping December 2016, when I forced Ťok to finally open the Prague-Ústí motorway after 32 years, was 30 billion. So what are you guys talking about? How many highways were built, who are you talking about here? I know how long the highways have been going on. That there wasn't a land purchase bill? That we offered eight times to start buying out? I don't even know the name of the farmer around Hradec, where they were treated for 20 years - Havránková, a demonstration of our predecessors. Okay, we set it up, and when we finished, up to 300 highways and bypasses were ready. [[km]] And we were in the government together, Minister. Those traditional parties of yours, first of all, we want a deputy, we want somebody everywhere to watch over our assets, even our finances, I'm not even gonna say that name. I don't know what you're starting this debate. What's the start of this debate? You destroyed Czech mail in the '90s. IPB - total tunnel. Here is an article: Czech Post lines for cooperation with ČSOB up to a billion a year. I don't know. And after hearing Mr. Rakušan here yesterday, how we're responsible for everything, that's interesting. Yes, I was bothered by Mrs. Hrubá at the Czech Post Office, I was bothered by what was going on there, yes, it had social democracy under it, but you were in government. What kind of government was it? Well, eight socans and a Bělobrádek, that was the majority of you. I was fixing the finances, you were just taking your teammates to your resort. There's a lot of them, historically. Here's the deal. So yesterday we learned from Mr. Rakušan how great it is, and yesterday there was a video of where we learned, and here you have the contracts, Minister, a contract for advertising and promotion of 600,000, when is it? It's been 2023. What are they training here? Time and stress management, 100,000. They train time and stress management. That's what they pay for, isn't it? Training - coaching. Then we have negotiating tactics, imagine, also negotiating tactics, except the mail didn't deal with the mayors when they learned how to negotiate, how to negotiate. Talent program: we order time training and stress management, 126 000, other soft skills training. I don't even know what a soft skill is, I don't know if anyone here knows what a soft and hard skill is, I don't go to those trainings. What we have there: soft skill, we order Agile HR certification training. Now I don't know about the poor delivery girls who take $22,000. Representation costs: 80,000. Did somebody make that up, Minister? But the biggest picochet we have here: here we have a million crowns contract with the Kefir cologne company. And isn't Rakušan from Cologne? Kefir Cologne. This contract boasts that it hosts the best baby punk festival in the universe. The partner of the event is the Czech Post Package, supported by the so-called holding workshop. Do you know what a holding workshop is? And there was a chance to shoot the parents out of the slingshot. So the post office puts a million crowns on this. What are you guys talking about? Then ask your colleagues what the český Post is in charge of. So Mr. Rakušan here made contracts from the Czech Post Office. Dear citizens, you who lose your mail and go to collect your pension, I don't know, across the city, Mr. Rakušan from post sponsors Rugby club Strong Girls 300,000, Association of Teachers Dance 200,000, 4.5 million sent mail to Petr Čech - no super, 700 000 received the Czech floorball company. Interestingly, there are also contracts for managers' training: Signatories Million Moments - these are those who always help to disrupt our meetings here - Josef Regner, a freelance tutor, received 99,000 for Time and Stress Management, and another CZK 500,000 paid for the stress management of Smarter Training and Consulting. Czech Post paid CZK 60,000 for the undefined coaching of Motherboard - Consulting for Management and Business Excellence. This company's pages are dysfunctional, so you see. She made 22,000 last year, great, so she got 60 and she got 22. The course of negotiation tactics cost 132,000. The owner of the company is Lipnice Holiday School. The company culture course was 215,000 at GOPA, which was co-owned by the CEO of the Czech Republic - well, coincidence. 170 000 cost the publication of the logo by the Czech soprano Markéta Fassati. I saw the video -- well, unbelievable. The singer had a contract in years past. At the end of 2021, the post office ordered four videos with Fassati, the price of CZK 500,000, ratings: 400 people. And the candy is kantar, that's Moravcův's, the agency, always got good research, so she got $2 million, Kantar. Why do you think? Well, I don't know why you're going into this debate, Minister. It could have been over by now, I didn't even want to perform, but forget the name of Babiš. Grandma was really upset about this. And that was for every minister, not transparent. The only director there was Kratina, the topolanovics were fired. So what are you talking about? You executed the mail by taking her business. And you want to read articles here about a bribe of 300 million and Michalik and ČSSD, I don't know what we're talking about. So don't tell me we had something to do with the mail. What we had in our portfolio, we fixed up, I criticized the český Post, there are a lot of strange contracts of the Czech Post. Yes, here are the various agreements, from May 13th, Deloitte for $10 million, and so on. Then let Mr. Rakušan show all the contracts, do it publicly and we can have fun. So it's not fiction. You, professional politicians, you are one typical, universal minister of everything, you know how to speak beautifully and attack immediately. So these are the facts. And we can talk about it for a long time, if you like, today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u45	Mr. Excellent, then Vice Prime Minister Jurečka was signed in first with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask all my fellow Members and yours, Mr Babiš, to return, if possible, to what is now the subject of our negotiations. I didn't hear any proposal to include a new item in the program or any modification of the program. [[10.50 hours]] I know the President has priority rights, of course. He can only insult the Minister in the first sentence. [[Reactions from the left side of the hall.]] Are we gonna yell at each other? Is anyone in charge of this Chamber of Deputies, please? [[I'm driving, please speak.]] Thank you. So I'd like my colleagues not to yell at me here, and I don't think that's what the House really is about, and if that's how you want to strengthen the culture of negotiations, that's not how we really picture it. I only ask that the Member do not insult the Minister, vilely, inventives in the first sentence, in the last sentence, and that, unless he has a proposal for a programme, we go back to where we are. It has been said repeatedly here, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka asked for it, we have important points here, we have some third readings on which there is a consensus as I perceived yesterday at the political grémium and with your Madam President. Let's go back to the courtroom, please, and please keep those dirty attacks out of the way, maybe to Pruhonica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u47	Thank you. Next - Mr Deputy Prime Minister is not interested, but there was an interest with Prime Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. One sentence so we don't stretch it out. We want to discuss the gracious summer, as we agreed, as we promised. I'm not gonna blame anybody for what they call the woods, but I have one comment. If you'd approved an emergency meeting on the topic of the Czech Post, it might not have been any dramatic length, we would have just said it all to each other, and it would have been no problem. Then don't be surprised that we just have to do it this way, nota bene when there aren't even interpelations this week, which is not regrettable, I know it was in a long-term program - I add that to be fair, but we have no other choice. So next time, please approve the program, we can even agree on some time, I'm completely constructive about it, and then there doesn't have to be this going on here at the expense of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u49	Thank you, and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková and Mrs Lenka Dražilová are enrolled in the proper application for the inclusion of new points. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to begin by saying for the sake of understanding why I want to load this new item: for the citizens of the Pardubice Region, this is one of the biggest problems, and therefore I would like to ask for a new point called the Disturbing Post Office by Minister Vít Rakušan in Pardubice Region. From the very beginning of the debates on the closure of Czech Post offices and redundancies, Mayor Pardubic, the Governor and other mayors have warned about the necessity of active communication to all those affected by these measures, not only to the mayors of towns and municipalities, but also to the employees of individual branches, which will be affected by the cancellation and subsequent dismissals, as well as to the public. It didn't happen. Without any discussion and communication, a list of branches has been published which will be cancelled in Pardubice Region and are 17 branches in six cities. All interested parties consider this to be a gross failure in communication, which, moreover, has caused a wave of enormous concerns for both clients and postal employees, and it is very clear that the abolition of any branch will mean significant discomfort for its clients, who will have to look for a branch more remote. Once again, it will mostly affect seniors and people with disabilities. In Pardubice, for example, seven branches are to disappear, and some parts of the city remain entirely without mail. The mayor said: "The post office and the ministry did not consult us on this step, we did not have the opportunity to correct or influence the decision. Since there are more than half of existing branches in Pardubice, i.e. seven of the existing thirteen, it will certainly cause great discomfort for customers who will have to find a new branch. For example, parts of Dukla and Dubina remain completely without mail, and these are the largest parts, the most inhabited parts of the city." Before publishing the list, Mayor Chrudimi said: "I can't well imagine a branch being cancelled. The post office at the settlement near the stadium serves 8,000 people, a branch in Topolská 5,000 people, and there are already queues at the main post office in Resslova Square. I don't know how it would have been done without a single one, any branch." And the result? Three of the four branches are cancelled and remain where the most complicated parking is and where long queues are already forming. This is unacceptable for the Pardubice Region, and I therefore ask for the inclusion of this point as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u51	Thank you and I will ask another, and this is Mrs Dražilová. Mrs Pastuchová will be ready. I'm just reminding you, we always have five minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I had a longer performance prepared, but, of course, I'm going to cut it short as part of some speeding up. I also want to comment on the Czech Post, on the cancellation of the post by Minister Vít Rakušan, in the South Moravian Region. Yes, a lot of words have been said here, but I consider it very important that it be said that we in the South Moravian Region also have a problem. We've got 23 branches canceling out. The situation is very serious, of course the worst is in Brno, where 12 branches are cancelled, but also in other cities - three are cancelled in Hodonín, two are cancelled in Břeclav. I know they have a huge problem in Břeclav. There is also a problem in Tišnov, where there is only one branch cancelled, but the one that serves the other five municipalities. Also in Znojmo, they're shutting down two branches, back in the big housing estates. The mayor wants to discuss it because it's a housing estate where seniors live, who serve the post office to another suburban area. I'm the deputy mayor myself in Blansko. We are a town of twenty thousand, where one branch will be considered to be canceled, but also in our large housing estate, where seniors live mostly, and seniors who go to this branch for their pensions. Yes, you can tell me that they could have done it differently, but they're often seniors who are alone, they're used to it, they just work this practice, and now it's gonna be a big problem for them. I have a meeting with the mayor myself on Tuesday, but frankly, I can imagine how this is going to go, because I think it's just to make a comma. I would like to say one thing that the case around the post office points to an incredible amateurism in government communication. Everything is constantly changing, and only under pressure from the opposition, namely our Member, Mrs Jana Vildumetzová Mračková, mayors and the public, are new information that we have not yet had. I would like to include this point as the sixth point after the already fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u53	Thank you. I'm writing as my sixth point. I will ask Mrs Pastuchová to prepare Mrs Peštová, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I would like to place a point of rušení the post office by the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan in the Liberec Region. I understand that maybe somebody doesn't like it, that we're loading each other for our country and our mail, but it shows that this issue is serious. We also pointed it out yesterday, and we are pleased that every Member here can speak for his region, because coalition MPs will not do it for their region. And I am quite sorry that when it comes to voting on it, even Members from the region are not in favour of preserving their mails. So I don't know if they're fighting for themselves here or for their citizens in their own country. In our region is to cancel or 13 branches have been proposed, today it is already 12. That's what I was talking about yesterday, and I'm going to say that I'm surprised or I'd like to see what the error rate is when these branches are canceled, because - it's also in the media - so in Liberec, there's a post office in Wroclawice, where the mayor is the mayor of the starosta, Mr. Martin Půta is the mayor of the starosta, and Senator Canov bragged about it, too, for the starosta. And while the mayor's list came in this morning, in three hours this mail was left, I say left. It's not like they can exchange them when someone - or that they're predicted - is meeting somebody with the mayor and instead of this post office cancels this one. [[11.00 hours]] I think it's paradoxical that no one has looked at the state of the buildings, the post office, because I don't really care about my mind being canceled by the latest mail or under construction, or by the post office where the depot is directly located. I think that we should not just look at the post office and the interference from the economic point of view, but we really should look at the fact that we are providing public service and service to citizens through these mails. Our mayor, who is in the Liberec Region for the town of Česká Lípa, wrote to the minister. I am so looking forward to the Minister's reasons for this when the befel comes, the mail will be cancelled, and the citizens are already waiting for queues in busy cities, so that it doesn't happen there like the houses of horrors and labor offices where clients are waiting now, so it's not at the post office. [[We have time, please.]] [[Thank you.]] And yet, Mr Vice-President, I would like to place this as a point after the fixed points today. [[First point today.]] Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u55	Thank you. Another Mrs Peštová, please, and Mrs Vildumetzová will be prepared, then Mrs Věra Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to say in the introduction that there is no war between the opposition and the coalition, because I may want to load the item Cancellation by Minister Austrian in the Ústí Region and a lot of mayors, mayors are not members at all or even sympathizers of the ANO movement. Rather, they are in a situation where they must now solve the problem that has arisen. 27 branches are cancelled in the Ústí Region, three of which are cancelled in Most, four are cancelled in Litvínov. I would just like to point out that in Most there is one of the branches that is canceled, in the bridge hospital, which is the second largest in the Ústí Region, it has there - the number of beds is about 770, hospitalized annually there are approximately 22,000 people, which is not very few, and the number of employees is 1,400. So just so you know, the key that was chosen here was probably chosen unfortunately. In any case, the Governor of the Ústí Region responded, immediately contacted all the mayors, with all the mayors, and sent a letter to Minister Rakušan, where he asked him immediately to stop the work on the regulation, which specifies what branches will be cancelled - or not specified, because this regulation, which went into interdepartmental commentary procedure, had the formalities such as RIA, the explanatory report, the presentation report and the text, but what was not given, it was a list of those branches that will be cancelled, so, in its essence, the commentary procedure, although it lasted from 2. 3rd to 23rd. 3., there was nothing to comment on, because the only sentence that was there was that 300 branches were canceled, so it was all they could comment on. I have tried to be brief so that my colleagues can, of course, perform. But in any case, the way this regulation was put into the interreort, it was very dilettant. I don't understand how the Ministry took the liberty - by doing the legislation - to put something in the interdepartmental commentary procedure with the fact that there is only one sentence that 300 branches are canceled, but that's all there was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u57	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mrs Mr. Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor. vážený Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to place a point called Czech Post under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan. At the same time, I would like to respond in the introduction to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who says: Yes, today we are to approve a gracious summer that affects thousands of people. I am convinced that we will discuss it, we will approve. But I would like to tell him that the český Post also affects thousands of people, and thousands of people are concerned about what Minister Vít Rakušan is doing. I asked Minister Vít Rakušan yesterday to go on the microphone and make it clear what the procedure would be, because I don't want to be a bad prophet, and why. You hear it here from all the representatives of the individual regions, how they proceed in those regions, how they do not communicate with the mayors and mayors, how Minister Vít Rakušan goes behind the starosta and independent. Mr Marian Jurečka, through Mr President, I also speak to colleagues from the coalition who will tell me, of course, that it is unprepared, that they too are not satisfied, except that they do not have the courage and cannot come here to say it on the microphone. That is why I say again, in my opinion today, the government will approve the abolition of the 300 branches and it is over. So if anybody's talking about the český Post talking to the mayor, yes -- she's just gonna let them know. It's horrible, it's unbelievable. And I call on you to publish an analysis of how you closed those branches, because it really does seem very untransparable and strange, when we look at one branch closes in Cologne, it should be closed in Vratislavice in the Liberec Region, it will not close. Can they also look at the city of Kyjov in the South Moravian Region - 10,000 inhabitants will have two branches? And Sumperk, 25,000 inhabitants, will he have one branch? I don't know what to think. Why don't you publish it, why don't you show it to us for what reason? And make everyone public and explain above all the questionable contracts that our President Andrej Babiš has been talking about, and publish why you're doing 40 million customer research now. Is it even normal for the delivery companies, towards the workers on the counters, when they see that the Czech Post management has now ordered a customer survey? Too bad. Please, Mr Jurečka, through Mr President, watch the seminar, watch what the authorized director of the Czech Post said there. He practically said: everything is a problem, everything is a problem, and most importantly, he doesn't care about the customer at all. He said at the seminar that citizens wouldn't dictate when they'd go to the post office. And I would point out that he said that the second step would be that the mail would be open two days a week, and the mail would be delivered to people every three days. Please, this is your authorized director of the Czech Post. It is necessary to solve český mail! Our pressure is for that reason, and you know very well that you want to cancel 300 branches in the government today. And we all know that when something closes, it ends, it never comes back. And I'm saying again, what do we have the authorities for, what do we have partners in the territory for? It's the mayors. If the mayors want to run it, if they want to be part of it, you don't have the right to forbid it. And that's what we're calling you to do. That is why it is necessary for this point to be here and for Minister Rakušan to state clearly and clearly what the procedure will be. And if that's - because the information he has up to now isn't in eKLEP, but if - because some journalists are communicating, if he's turning to Vít Rakušan today, if he's putting it to the government today, he's silent, okay? So, please, mayors and mayors, the YES movement is fighting for you, it's always fought for you, and today you have Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, who wears the starosta and independents on the lapel, but he threw you all overboard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u59	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková and Mrs Maříková will be ready. Then I'm just pointing out that we have the last two applications, so three more together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to ask for two points that will not apply to the post office, but then we will find that too. It is, as is customary in my case, about health care. The first point, which, if approved, I would beg as the second point of today's negotiations, concerns the quality of health care provided in the Czech Republic, when we are no longer able to guarantee the quality that was still three quarters of a year ago, because we do not have medicines. I'm not just going to talk about antibiotics, because maybe it's who says it's not true that he probably doesn't live here, but I'm going to talk about other medications, especially for kids, like regular nose drops, which are done, which also have an antibiotic ingredient, but he can't mix them up. So please, nicely, let's not downplay the fact that there's no medication. Three quarters of a year ago, it would have been a mistake in high school for a student to say that he was going to give some kind of antibiotic, so they fired him and fired him right, because that's not how it's supposed to be. But today, in practice, a doctor is not supposed to treat what he should, so I ask you to include this point. We're gonna have a government here, we're gonna have a minister here to tell us his plan - I don't know. Let him tell us how he activated the State Institute for Drug Control, how he activated other components and when we have any hope of improvement. We haven't seen her yet, and it's very difficult. We've got diabetics that we don't have to give anymore, we've got transplant patients, patients who are waiting for a serious valve defect for surgery, and if they're going to banal surgery, they have to get antibiotics, and we don't have them for them. So, please, the quality of health care in the Czech Republic is no longer good, and the deterioration has already occurred, not that it will. Please, let's talk about this. Maybe the Minister already has a plan, a plan, and he knows how to get out of this very tricky situation. And the second point that I would ask for in case of inclusion as point 3 of today's meeting: it is from a health point of view about securing suitable food for our patients. As you know, a number of diseases - it may not just be diabetes, but more than 10 percent of our population suffer from kidney disease, there are people with fat disorders and the like - have to follow some dietary measures that are an integral part of the treatment. It is not possible for everyone to write a tablet, because he may not need it yet, or even if he is taking it, he must also follow the dietary measures, and the situation has been very aggravated since January of this year. I have patients every day, people from all over the Republic tell me every day - unfortunately, they don't have the money for the recommended treatment anymore. I didn't want to believe it at first, but I really did a Sunday survey of chains on the outskirts of Prague and in the cheapest part - I will not name, I am not a client or agent of any such chain - common pepper costs 100 crowns! How am I supposed to look the old man or the mother in the eye and call her? No, you're supposed to buy it. She's just starting to lose it, and that's wrong. Let's talk - food prices, which can ultimately lead to a deterioration in our population's health again, which is totally unacceptable to me. Don't you want to talk about it? I have one question: why? You don't care about these people? It's quite a non-conflict question, in my opinion. You tell me what you've done, how you've done, what your plans are. We need information because, of course, these people are asking questions, and these people are already very unhappy. So, as you can see, saying about obstruction here would really be completely pointless. I summarized both my contributions into one, and I fit in less than three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u61	Thank you. Another duly applied for is Mrs Maříková. Please take the floor and prepare Mr Roman Kubíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to take advantage of the fact that I have seen Minister Nekula here today, and I would like to propose a point entitled Grains from Ukraine are crushing the market in the European Union, because farmers are asking the government to start dealing with the situation concerning Ukrainian grain. Last year, as part of solidarity, grain, corn, and rape from war-stricken Ukraine were to be transported to the countries of North Africa, where there was to be a lack of food due to the outages of supplies from Ukraine. But eventually, Russia began to supply grain to this area, and Ukrainian production remained in Europe, where cereals are now surplus. Thus, a large quantity of Ukrainian grain, which is cheaper than that produced in the European Union, has ended up in Central European countries without meeting strict qualitative parameters and without being grown with the environment required by the European Union's growers. Farmers are in a situation where the warehouses are full, the wheat trade has stopped and are afraid to sell the wheat to where to store the new crops. The Czech Republic exports wheat and a small part went to Poland, where imports from Ukraine will not be sold now. The Czech Republic is practically a pure exporter of cereals. It is one of the commodities that at least partially balances the rising negative balance of agrarian foreign trade. Only last year wheat was exported from the Czech Republic for CZK 17.1 billion. The Czech Government is quite lax about this situation when Ukrainian grain is crushing the European market. Farmers want the government to reduce imports of Ukrainian grain or to use it in incinerators for energy purposes. Ukrainian grain is also duty-free. From 4 June 2022, the European Union has suspended import tariff quotas between the two regions for all agricultural and processed agricultural products imported into the European Union from Ukraine for a period of one year. The main objective of the measure was to support Ukraine's economy. Farmers have an understanding of solidarity with Ukraine, but not at the cost of reducing the competitiveness of their businesses. Imports of wheat from Ukraine negatively affect the European market, claims the Agricultural Union of the Czech Republic. Farmers from Poland or Slovakia also draw attention to this. According to the Union, there are concerns that farmers should be able to sell their production from last year's harvest and have somewhere to store this year's harvest. So I would like to take advantage, as I have already said, of the fact that Minister Nekula is here today, and I would like to propose the inclusion of this point, and I propose that the points be placed firmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u63	Thank you. I'm writing on fixed points. Next, please, and this is Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point, which is called the Disturbing of Czech Post offices by Minister Vítěm Austrian in the South Bohemia Region. According to information, 18 branches are closed in the South Bohemia Region and five of them are closed in České Budějovice. I was looking at a press conference that the authorized director of the Czech Post was doing, I was looking at his analyst, and I was interested in a powerpoint presentation that dealt with one point called Traffic Service. It worked in the style that we stuck the compass, we made a circle about two kilometers in diameter, and we said, "This is where the mail will be, and there will be no mail here." This is not a good analysis, and if we can't do the analyses, I would like to point out that the same analyst took place in the German Post Offices, in the Austrian Post Offices and recently in the Italian Post Offices. The analysis was very sophisticated, it took a very long time and was introduced in the so-called evolutionary process, which means that it had follow-up actions that were consulted and agreed with the local government. In the Czech Republic there was no such agreement and I read on the website of the Ministry of the Interior that the Ministry of the Interior is proceeding according to the law and that the law does not impose any obligation on them to inform local authorities. Well, that's very problematic, because I've had a lot of calls from the mayors since the announcement last week, not from the mayors of the ANO movement, but cross-cuttingly from all political parties - and everyone is very surprised that an analysis will be made, they will be notified, and then they will be told: Maybe we will discuss it. If you were on the ground of České Budějovice, you would be struck by interference as a native, for example, by one branch, which includes a large housing estate, where a large number of pensioners live demographically, and these pensioners will be redirected to a relatively distant post office, which is already occupied today. I draw attention to the fact that the analysis that you should present to us and which you should, above all, present to those mayors should include precisely the following criteria: demographic curve, service and so on. She can't work the public service in the style of how many life insurance policies we sell at an individual branch. That's why I think it's very important. And just a little warning: if we were to get the promise of negotiations on the Czech Post, we could save ourselves a lot, a lot of performances here. I'll ask for the seventh point after the points already included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u65	Thank you. And the final enrollment is Mr. Bělica. I'll ask him for his contribution. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u66	Mr President, thank you. Dear representatives of the government, I would like to make a brief comment and ask for a new point on today's agenda, which would be called the Crashing of Czech Post offices in the Moravian-Silesian Region by the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan. So I'd like to discuss a few things on this point, and I've split it into a few bounces. 1. In the Moravian-Silesian Region it is designed to cancel 56 branches. It is mostly for one region throughout the Czech Republic. Why so much? Why not 30? Why not 50? 2. Based on what parameters have you reached this decision? What data was decisive for this decision? Who picked them? Based on what key? What is this miraculous restructuring plan of the Czech Post, which we have heard a lot about, but no one has ever seen it, such as Mrs. Colombová? 3. Representatives of municipalities across the Czech Republic have learned about the cancellation of branches from the media. Why have these matters not been consulted in advance with representatives of municipal policy and with representatives of self-government? For another, four. How have local specifics been taken into account? Can you please tell me which Pražák decided to cancel five branches of Czech Post from eight in my native Havířov? And why the barrier-free branch of the Czech Post in Opava? Which Pražák guy knows these areas so well that he's competent to make that decision? 5. Well, perhaps, Minister Rakušan, it was one of the criteria not to disturb so many branches in Cologne. Or is it, Minister, the first step before the sale or sale of this state enterprise? I don't know. Who's gonna advise on that, anyway? Someone from Mr. Redl's circle? That would be interesting to tell these people. 6. Finally, please include this point as the third after the fixed points at today's meeting. And yet, Mr President, I have a few more seconds to conclude. Minister Jurečka, through the President, it is not entirely pleasant for me, but I will talk to you as much as you do with us. Where were you in the last parliamentary term and what did you do to prevent those branches of the Czech Post from being disturbed in this completely unprecedented and arrogant way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u67	Thank you. All applications have been exhausted and President Benda has applied with priority. I don't see him, but he's reporting with the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u68	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all five coalition clubs, I would like to bring in the newly proposed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-05-ps2021-063-02-000-000.u69	Yes, thank you. Therefore, we will not vote on any points, because there were no other points in terms of priority, and thus we can move on to discuss individual government bills. We're at point number.
