ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-005-138.u1	138. Proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to support investigations conducted by the International Criminal Court in connection with Russian aggression against Ukraine, and training and advice in Niger /German press 402/ - first reading The submitted proposal will be introduced gradually by Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavský. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-005-138.u2	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening to all of you. I present to you, together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs - who I assume will not perform, because if I have heard correctly, he was excused - to discuss and approve a proposal on the operation of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to support investigations conducted by the International Criminal Court in connection with Russian aggression against Ukraine and training and advice in Niger, which was approved by the Government on 8 March 2023 by resolution 174. The ongoing conflict in Ukraine is accompanied by obvious crimes, both by war crimes and by crimes against humanity. It is certainly in everyone's interest, theoretically including representatives of the Russian Federation, so that these crimes do not remain unresolved and that convicted perpetrators are punished. On the initiative of more than 40 parties to the Rome Statute, including the Czech Republic, the International Criminal Court, the so-called ICC, has been investigating the above crimes in The Hague since March 2022. Like many other countries, the Czech Republic responds to the ICC's call for additional resources and personnel in connection with this investigation. We therefore propose that the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence assigned to the International Criminal Court be authorised to investigate alleged crimes under international law committed in connection with Russian aggression against Ukraine outside the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 15 persons, for the period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2024. The task will be completed in a few four- and six-week cycles. It is envisaged to operate in the Netherlands, where the ICC is based, as well as in Ukraine, where the ICC conducts investigations. The ICC decides on a specific place of action. The second part of the proposal relates to work in Niger despite the fact that the Czech Republic stopped participating in the Takuba task force and in the EUTM training mission last year. The Sahel remains an area of interest for the Czech Republic, at least from a security point of view. Perhaps we can all agree that it is also a mission like this that helps to avert further migratory flows heading for Europe. The Sahel countries support the European Union, but also individual Western countries, such as the United States of America, Canada, Italy, France, Belgium or Germany. [[18.00 hours]] The Ministry of Defence has long analysed how and in which country to contribute to the stabilisation of the security situation in the Sahel countries as well as in the wider region of West Africa. So Niger, a long-term supporter of the West, seems appropriate to resist the various pressures of international actors, but also a number of radical groups to destabilize the country. Niger is well aware of the growing risks in the region and intends to expand its armed forces significantly in the coming years. We therefore propose that forces and resources be authorised in Niger for training and advice of up to 20 persons for the period from the date of Parliament's approval until 31 December 2023. Yes, it's only been six months. In addition to training and advice, sent soldiers will assess and negotiate possibilities for continuing support, possibly in the years following. By proposing activities, the Czech Republic will expand its significant support for Ukraine both in the fight against Russian aggression and at the same time we will contribute to the stabilisation of the security situation in the Sahel region, thereby confirming the position of a responsible and respected ally and partner, and thus in line with our foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-005-138.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. As you have announced, Minister Jan Lipavskýý is excused all day on account of his foreign travel, so we will continue. This House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 402/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Josef Flek, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-005-138.u4	Hello. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Defence Committee of the 24th meeting of 14 March 2023 on the proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence to support the investigation conducted by the International Criminal Court in connection with Russia's aggression against Ukraine, and training and advice in Niger, House press No. 402: "Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Jana Černochová, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Major General . Karel Řehka, Chief of Military Police of Colonel General Staff . Jiří Roček, Member's intelligence report Mgr Josef Flek and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies I. consents to the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence 1. committed to the International Criminal Court in order to support investigations into alleged crimes under international law committed in connection with Russian aggression against Ukraine, outside the territory of the Czech Republic in total up to 15 persons, for a period from the date of approval by Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2024, 2. for the purpose of training and advice in Niger in total up to 20 persons, for the period from the date of approval by the Parliament of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2023; II. Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies once a year, always by 30 June, of the deployment of the forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence under point I of this resolution, within the framework of information on the deployment of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations for the relevant calendar year; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-005-138.u5	I, too, thank you, am opening a general debate and asking who is applying for it? As I do not see any application, I am ending the general debate. Do I ask any final words - Madam Secretary or rapporteur? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to a detailed debate and the rapporteur shall speak. [[No response from the rapporteur.]] Okay, I thought I was registering your application, so it's not, okay. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask, does the Minister or the rapporteur want to take the final floor at this point? It's not like that now either. We will vote on two points on the proposed resolutions. For the first vote, 101 votes are required. I want to ask whether it is necessary for me to repeat and reread the motion for this resolution, or is it sufficient as the rapporteur has put it? Looks like no one's arguing with this procedure that I'd take a direct vote. Kvorum is set to 101, I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the motion for this resolution? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 31 is registered 128 Members, for 125, against no one. The proposal has been approved. We will now vote on resolution 1/2, where a simple majority is needed for the adoption of this resolution. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 32, 135 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 110, against no one. The second motion for a resolution has also been agreed. The motion for both resolutions has been approved. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
