ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 458/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. Minister, I beg you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me to present a draft amendment to the law...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u3	Copy that. I will ask colleagues who do not want to address the issue of pensions, if possible, to leave the O.R. and transfer discussions elsewhere, so that the proposal presented can be discussed in dignity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u4	So allow me to make a brief proposal for an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. We are at second reading, I have presented this proposal, I think very in detail, at the beginning of the first reading, but I will at least allow myself to make a brief recapitulation of the substantial changes that we are proposing in this amendment. We are mainly adjusting the issue of early retirement and we are adjusting the issue of valorisations, which we had many discussions here at the beginning of this year. There are several reasons why we are taking this step. For one thing, these are the reasons that relate to the overall reform of the pension system so that the system is sustainable even in the long term in the next ten, twenty, thirty years, so that even for future generations of children or grandchildren of today's old agers, the system...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u5	Minister, I will interrupt you, and once again, I will ask all my colleagues to either keep their voices down or transfer calls outside the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. So that the system can take care of the future pensioners in twenty, thirty, forty years so that the ongoing system can really function as a result of the changes that we are going through as a society, that means a longer life span, less children born to the current generation, and so on. In this amendment, which is not an overall pension reform, it will come to the government level in the autumn of this year and in the first flight next year we will discuss it in Parliament, so this measure, this amendment really concerns only the two things that I have sent, i.e. changes in early retirement pensions. These changes are in four areas where it is proposed that we reduce the possibility of early retirement to a maximum of three years before we reach age. We will also increase the adjustment regarding the reduction of percentage scales. In today's system, it's graduated in three levels, here we unite it to 1.5 per cent for every 90 days missing. Furthermore, we also propose to adjust the necessary insurance period for granting this pension for a period of 40 years. Here I would just like to point out that today's old age pensioners or today's generation of our fellow citizens who retire from old age have an insurance period of 44.5 years on average, so that condition of 40 years is a condition that is for the vast majority of people who have behaved responsibly, fulfilled in their lives, and today these people really meet it with a large reserve. Furthermore, we also propose another measure and therefore do notvalorise the percentage of early retirement pensions for the period during which an early retirement pension is received. They're only going to valorize the basics, so this part right here is going to be valorized. [[13.50 hours]] There was some false information here in the House, but also in the public media area, that we would not cover the effects of inflation. It will always be true that an old-age pension will be fully increased by inflation on 1 January, on inflation in the previous 12-month period, which is always calculated from 1 July to the end of June of the following year. During this period inflation will always be fully covered in the due date of valorisation, while there is also an adjustment to the parameter where the proper valorisation term will still include the growth of one third of real wages, as it was in 2018 long years and the combination of these two factors provided solid pensions to Czech old-age pensioners, which were able to cover their living needs and a good standard of living as old-age pensioners. As far as valorisation is concerned, it is proposed here to maintain, of course, the basic condition when, after months consecutive, inflation increases exceed 5% in total, at which point the condition arises, when this proposal does not result in the extraordinary valorisation as we know it today, but there will be an institute which will mean an extraordinary contribution to the pension, which will be granted not on application basis, but will be granted automatically. We are introducing this contribution because the current system - and I want to emphasise this here - is the current system of extraordinary valorisation, which means that pensions for people who have above average and high pensions are constantly increasing and, on the contrary, the situation of people who have below average and low pensions is actually getting worse. This means that scissors between low- and high-income pensioners are being opened up in the current system of extraordinary valuations and subsequently proper valuations, so we have decided to make this adjustment here, where this exceptional contribution will always cover the remaining part of the year, where there would possibly be inflation growth after months greater than 5%, then these old-age pensioners will be paid this exceptional contribution. This will take into account 60 per cent of price growth and will set a percentage increase of 30 per cent of price growth on a permanent basis, taking into account this growth in the following regular remuneration of pensions in January of the following year. Therefore, this extraordinary valorization will be the nearest regular valorisation later. To provide a temporary addition to the pension of a uniform fixed amount of 30 per cent of price growth, this requirement would indeed be for the rest of the year when the emergency situation would occur. These are the major two areas of change that this proposal brings. This proposal was also discussed by the Committee on Social Policy 21. 6. and he recommended to accept it. So much for me to justify this proposal for these changes. Let me just recap. If we really mean responsibility for the good standard of living of old-age pensioners in the Czech Republic, not only today, not only in two or five years, but we mean it also in the context of the outlooks for the next twenty, thirty, forty years, it is necessary that we make a pension reform to make changes in the ongoing system, including the third pillar system, and this is actually the first important step that we are doing now, which concerns this year and the years to come. Again, the overall package of changes in the framework of pension reform will come to the Chamber of Deputies during the first half of next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee, the committee resolution was delivered to you as House Press 458/1. And I will ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Pavla Golasowská, take the floor, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant afternoon. The Minister has quite detailed and justified the draft law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and therefore allow me to give you a brief overview of how the law has been going through the whole process from the beginning until now. The bill was sent to Members as a press of 458/0 on 25 May 2023, the first reading was passed on 9 June 2023, at the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. At first reading, a motion for rejection was filed, which was not approved. A proposal was then made to shorten the committee's deliberations to 30 days, and the proposal was approved. The Committee on Social Policy discussed this bill on 21 June and adopted a resolution in order for the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's bill. And a refill. Eleven amendments were tabled to the Committee on Social Policy by Mrs Lucie Šafránková, one amendment by Mr Igor Hendrych, and one amendment by Mr Vít Kaňkovskýý and others, with the fact that the Committee, apart from the proposal by Mr Kaňkovský and others with whom he agreed, gave a disagreeable opinion on the other proposals. I will then come forward in a detailed debate where I will put forward a proposal to shorten the deadline between second and third readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u9	I thank the Member for the rapporteur's report and open a general debate in which MEPs have made themselves known in this order: first, with the priority right of President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Minister, we meet at the second reading of the proposal from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the direction of Minister Jurečka concerning the adjustment that will affect the lives of millions of current and future pensioners in this Republic. The subtitle of these parametric changes, which Minister Jurečka tries to present as a pension reform, is according to marketing the five-calice idea that pensioners have too well, that their alleged well-being threatens the financial stability of this country, that it is because of them that the Czech Republic is in debt and that the valorisation and payout of their pensions threatens the future of our grandchildren. I stand before you here as the former finance minister, but also as a grandmother, and I am clearly saying here that this is not the case. Indeed, the future of our children and grandchildren is not threatened by current pensioners. The future of our children and grandchildren is created by them, with the help of a state that is to support quality education, which is to promote innovation processes in the country and which is to promote economic growth, from which everyone benefits. But I'm sure we'll get to that during this week. The creation of guilt and the impression that pensioners are the cause of the unsustainableness of public finances is not appropriate. The concept of any pension reform - this is not a pension reform - even a marketing reform - must be based on the basic assumption, and this is that pensions are not a social benefit, that pensions are not a mid-dair and that pensions are part of a social contract within developed countries, where you pay a considerable part of your state's income in the form of insurance, taxes, fees and other state contributions during your active life. For this he builds hospitals, schools, highways, finances health care, finances the system of education, security and, at the same time, in the Czech Republic, he returns these funds back in the form of pensions to pensioners. The economically active part of the population for this logically expects the state to take care of it in times of illness or old age. So far, the social contract still works in the Czech Republic. [[14.00 hours]] Unfortunately, instead of being grateful to the elderly for what they've done for this state, five-calice digs between generations of ditches. However, older citizens often face financial difficulties. We often hear here that the compensation ratio is currently almost 50 percent of the average wage. But even this ratio, which is relatively high in history, does not make households rich, wealthy households. In addition, unlike the active population, elderly households often have limited opportunities to generate additional income, while the cost of life, the cost of basic needs, health care and housing is rising dramatically. Pensioners, especially the elderly and the sick, are dependent on the state, and it is our job to take care of them, and not only because it is moral and right, which, of course, is also true, but because we simply owe it to them under a social contract that hopefully works here so far. This is the basic basis with which we must approach any changes in the pension system, whether in the case of reform of the whole system or even in the case of some parametric changes, as is the case this time. There is certainly no way to refer to the Minister Jurečka's proposal as a pension reform. We are talking here today about parametric changes whose design is designed with only one purpose, and this save on current but also future pensioners. The current five koalice, as the second main motto of the elections after anti-Babiš hatred, had a consolidation of public finances and, as part of the consolidation of public finances, chose one group for which it decided to save money, which are pensioners. This is basically the only major spending savings, the only one presented by the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. The entire other consolidation is based on tax growth by the fact that pensioners also participate in the total collection. Unfortunately, the whole proposed amendment gives us the impression that Minister Jurečka has not been able to pursue any other objective outside the savings in pensioners, and therefore this amendment is internally inconsistent, incomplete, and thus acts as some sloppy concept, which is far from complete. As I have already mentioned, the proposal presented comes with several parametric modifications. I will comment briefly on the individual adjustments that have a single objective, namely to reduce expenditure relating to the payment of pensions. I'll start straight away. The five-calice cancels the extraordinary valorisation paid to pensioners in the event of an extraordinary price increase, i.e. in situations, as was repeatedly the case during the reign of Petr Fiala. It is true that a temporary allowance for retirement will be paid instead of this institute. But that's what robbers do. The amount of the addition will be substantially lower than the increase in prices. So the situation ends when he wrote to the pensioners - although with a delay - the entire increase in prices up to their pensions. According to the proposal from the workshop of Minister Jurečka, only 60 per cent of the price increase will be included in the so-called temporary addition, with the remaining 40 per cent being poor. And even by 60 percent, only average pensions will be nominally equalized. An explanation of why it is so, why the elderly should be the ones on whom the state saves, so far no one has given us. This parametric adjustment makes absolutely no sense, because pensioners did not get really added in case of extraordinary valuations even before the adjustment. The pensioners were compared with the net growth of the price level. Instead of fighting one of the highest price increases in EU countries and leading the economy to growth, they are just saving for pensioners. In addition, the proposed adjustment extends the interval between the moment of valorisation and the date on which the pensioners are actually added. There will be a new response to inflation within five months of meeting the inflation conditions, but at the same time in July at the earliest. The government will thus achieve another period where pensioners will have to bear the cost of price increases themselves. The only thing they're supposed to fund is you, Mr. Secretary. So instead of focusing on taming falling inflation, they are creatively inventing only new methods to reduce the original mechanism of extraordinary valorisation as an instrument to compensate for the increased cost of living due to extraordinary price growth. They are thus trying to create a tool to rob the vast majority of pensioners in case they fail to cope with this inflation even in the coming years. Minister Jurečka says that the change in the system of introducing a bonus instead of increasing pensions is supposed to be fair because it is advantageous for low-income recipients who receive more than they would have received in the current way. However, it somehow forgets to add that the advantage only applies to people with a pension below 12,000 per month, and it also goes away with the subsequent proper valorisation. As of 1 January of the following year, these people's incomes will be reduced. In the meantime, some of them are likely to make it twice to the Labour Office to convert the benefits they receive. First he loses his claim with an increase in income, then he gets it again, and the overloaded labour offices will, of course, not prosecute deadlines, completely unnecessary. Furthermore, I must emphasise the intended reduction in the growth of real wages in the proper valorisation of pensions. The part that is projected into valorisation should be reduced to one-third. This would basically bring us back to the time before Sobotkův's government, in which the YES movement was already in session in 2017. As a result of this measure, the longer pensioners live and receive income-based pensions in previous years and with only one third of the growth in real wages, the more their living conditions fall behind the whole company. In other words, they will slip into poverty. That's exactly what this five-calice government will do if they enforce the proposal. The longer you receive your pension, the poorer you will be from year to year compared to most of the company. Do you really want this development? Do we really want older people who can no longer increase their income by working income to fall into poverty compared with the rest of society, despite working and fulfilling their responsibilities throughout their lives? Even though they kept their part of the social agreement? They've spent their whole lives taking the small money that the state owes them now, whether the government wants it or not. Even though the government doesn't want to. The government, in which I was Minister of Finance, tried to reduce the decline between individual generations of pensioners by pushing the ANO movement through an automatic increase in pensions of CZK 1,000 per month for people over the age of 85, i.e. for that generation of pensioners whose pensions no longer allowed to live as dignifiedly as younger pensioners. That is why we have put the credit of real wages in half instead of a third of real wages, which is what the government is now trying to make worse and lower again. [[14.10 hours]] At the same time, pension valorisation will be set up on the basis of the consumer index of pensioners' households. At the first glance, it seems logical that pension valorisation should follow the index of the living costs of seniors. However, there is a problem with us that the current consumer basket used to calculate the index is not properly set. For example, housing costs, which pose significant challenges for pensioners, and not only for them, are too low in this basket or are under-considered. It's a wrong move again. The use of two indices is justified. This is mainly due to the fact that pensioners are not a homogeneous group, including groups of people with more than 30 years of age, groups characterised by significant differences, whether social or health differences, lifestyle differences and the possibilities to respond to changing living, economic and social conditions. The five-calice today also regulates early retirement and valorisation of early retirement. I agree with the government here, in part. I agree that the current method of calculation, which leads to higher early pensions than standard-age pensions, is not optimal and needs to be adjusted. However, we must realise that too strict punishment for early retirement places workers in the pre-retirement age in an extremely disadvantageous situation on the labour market. In the event of a loss of employment that these citizens had not foreseen, their pensions are permanently reduced, even though they have worked hard for most of their lives. The proposed penalization in the bill is really strict, and the possibility of early retirement for three years is reduced. The fundamental error of this step is within a short period of time that today's workers would have at their disposal to adapt their life strategy. The government also plans to increase the minimum insurance period required for entitlement to an early pension from 35 to 40 years, including replacement periods of insurance. This significant leap can be a problem for those who rely on the possibility of early retirement for any reason. The current generation, according to data from the Czech Social Security Administration, has no major problem with extending the time, but it could be difficult for younger years entering economic activity later than the previous generation. Unfortunately, five-wheelers are not working with active unemployment policy at all today. Petr Fiala's government lulled itself into the lowest unemployment rate left to it by our government. Up to one third of applicants apply for early retirement, last year and this year even more. That's a huge number that five-calibers don't do anything to. Why are the employment authorities not working with a generation of pre-accession age targeted under active employment policy? Why does he only have an extended payment of benefits and an early pension for them? Why doesn't it offer support for people of retirement age who want and can work? This would result in a high number of positive externalities, ranging from benefits for the state budget and income of retired households to a better mental state of the older part of the population, which would still be active on business. Today's package of measures, however, is not the first effort of five-wheelers to save on our pensions. However, what the government's five-calice shows around pensions began earlier. The Constitutional Court is currently dealing with the case of filing or proposal to abolish part of the law which initiated the ANO movement, which concerns the change in the valuation scheme, when the government decided to reduce the average pension by CZK 1 000 a month on average, contrary to the Czech Constitution until the moment when the entitlement to valorisation had already occurred. That is the basic complaint that we are referring to. Of course, there are many more. The reason for this is the helplessness of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who was stuck in opposition, where he was just saying how he would do it better, and lashing out with marketing savings. At the time when the Minister and his army of advisors were to clear their sleeves and get to work, he decided to submit a marketing budget and ignore the official documents of the Ministry of Finance which stated that extraordinary valorisation would certainly occur, in addition, at a moment when it was quite clear that valorisation would be necessary. The government was actually reluctant to do anything because there was a presidential election going on. Unfortunately, it ended the way it didn't have to end. There was one big zero in the budget for pension valorization, so Minister Stanjura clearly acted irresponsiblely in this respect. It wasn't the first and probably not the last. Dear colleagues, if we wanted to talk here about real pension reform, we would have to talk about an effort to actively motivate people to stay in the work process as long as possible. In doing so, the motivation to remain on the labour market longer than it is inevitable could be mutually beneficial. After all, it is not only good for the state register, but it is good for the citizens themselves. In the case of pensioners, it is often not only a financial aspect, which is of course very important for many, but also to extend an active working life in the work team and the work that you enjoy and fills, contributes to the mental well-being and satisfaction of life. And I have no doubt here that certainly a generation of citizens of 60+ has a considerable amount of life experience, certainly has a different view of the world, and in many work groups it could be a significant enrichment. It just wants to work actively with the labour market and set up the right employment policy. I therefore stress that I am talking, in particular, about people who can and want to work, but this also needs to be across the street. On the contrary, Petr Fiala's cabinet is following orders, bans, which I think is completely wrong. It is also crucial today to motivate citizens to make their own savings. The fact is that it is in the long-term interest of the state to support the responsibility of the working part of the population by increasing the benefits of both pension insurance and savings - we must now prepare and motivate the generation of current 30s to make these savings. Unfortunately, five coalitions managed to create an environment with double-digit inflation, where the savings of the entire company were completely impaired. This too is one of the long-term effects of the amateur approach of the Cabinet of Petr Fiala. And not only did it deprive the current active part of the population, but also the pensioners who no longer have the opportunity to create a new financial pillow for unexpected situations. Moreover, the government has fundamentally reduced society's motivation and confidence in making savings. People no longer believe that their value will be preserved and that they will not be lost. Today I have to tell you that the perfect time has been wasted. This time was at the turn of the millennium at a time when many of the parties to the government coalition were in power. In this period, we have not yet felt nearly as much of the ageing population as we do today. Moreover, at that time we had extraordinary revenues in the form of privatization revenues, which were to be used logically for extraordinary expenditure in the form of implementation of pension reform. If a government five-calice wants to criticize someone, and we will certainly hear that repeatedly here, for failing to implement a real pension reform, it should focus its criticisms on its party colleagues in particular. Finally, I will repeat that today we are discussing parametric changes that have nothing to do with pension reform. Their only goal is clear to all of us today. It is to deprive current and future pensioners of the funds to protect their purchasing capacity. Today, we are discussing adjustments that are internally inconsistent and that are set to bear the costs of the desperate budgeting process of Minister Stanjury's part of the population, which is one of the most vulnerable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u11	Your speech, Madam President, raised two factual points. With the first point of fact, Mr Brázdil will speak. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the opening words of Minister Jurečka. I'll move on to the last term. At the end of the last parliamentary term, we were discussing the retirement of paramedics, and the Minister raised his hand for it. Soon, when he went to another coalition, it had to be canceled, and it had to be remodeled, and the guys who went to see him, the paramedics in Olomouc, he promised and didn't keep them. Then I remember, recently, the labor code, where there's a 24-hour service so that people can be in families and they don't have to work all the time, so the transposition allows for that exception. And once again, it was said that there was no other way to do it. So I think for myself, what is the weight of the words of Minister Jurečka, who once is so, for the second time. For me, the weight is minimal, so I don't even believe it's honesty to fix anything, but I'm sorry for you, all retired people, and as much as you've done a decent, excellent job here, you've built what we have here, so today this five-calice isn't actually going to give you what you're entitled to? And they're calling it some kind of big change, some kind of transposition, or not a transposition, but some kind of... In short, I wanted to say that I don't trust the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u13	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u14	I would like my opponents not to paraphrase here and twist what I said in my opening words or what I said at first reading. For one thing, I've never faced any confrontation here that because of current pension expenses, it's not something else. I've never built it. I will ask the President of the ANO House of Deputies to never say it like that. I was talking here about the need to make these changes so that children and grandchildren of current pensioners also have the chance of having pensions from an ongoing system that can ensure their good living standards. The vast majority of the public, public opinion clearly states that pension reform is necessary, that citizens are aware that this system is not sustainable in the long term in these parameters. That's why we're doing this. Then I ask myself to twist words and the reasons why changes must be made. And the claims that were made here. I greatly appreciate my ancestors, my grandparents, my parents, how they worked hard, how they raised us five children, how they worked in conditions that were far more physically demanding, in their professions and occupations. But when we talk about the challenges, we need to realize that the claim is covered by how many children are in working age for that generation and how many children can take on their contributions to the system from which pensions are paid. The system is based practically on Bismarck's principle that children's pensions are financed from their parents' or grandparents' contributions. This needs to be seen in the context of how demography is developing, how the time of survival is developing, and we need to put it into some real framework for what the budgets have money for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, with another factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, Minister, you are right, through Mr President, that the generation that comes in will pay pensions, or what the older generations have already done here. So you're saying claim. They're entitled to it. The point is, we're already picking them off wherever we can. I mean, we don't. As far as the valorization you've shown here. But I'd like to ask you another question. I was struck by the way you said about the young ones here to have something, and there was a beautiful article in Hospodářské noviny, which says that today's 60s and 50s will be cut short, after they retire by up to CZK 3,000. You announced as Ministry that it would be 150 to 200 crowns lower every year, but suddenly your data suggests that it will be 200 to 370 crowns a year. So, on the one hand, you're saying that the current 50s, where I fall, to have that pension, and on the other hand, you're not telling people that B, they're going to lose 3,000 crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u17	Mr Juchelka will make another point of fact, and Mr Volný Member will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm just talking to the Minister when he's trying to push the opposition around here to say that, or not to interpret wrong, what the Minister says, so I'll quote it. I'm quoting from the News List from a conversation with Lucie Stuchlíková. I quote, "I don't have the money to raise a parent today. And if we increase pensions this way, my financial space is getting even smaller." I know that intergenerational solidarity may not mean anything to anyone, but in this context it is extremely important, and it is from an interview which reads: "Jurečka: When pensions grow at this rate, I have no room to raise a parent." I, Minister, and I say this in the long run, you simply divide society by throwing individual cougars into the midst of families and seniors. That's your solidarity. At this point, there's some kind of grant title running towards the so-called fifth degree disability, which is a completely unsystemic thing that's going to divide again, and that's handicapped, so we could move on and on. So if we quote you, I hope it's going to be okay, and I quote once again, "When pensions grow at this rate, I don't have time to raise parenthood." This is simply a blackmail sentence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Volný, Minister Jurečka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u20	Well, thank you for the word. I won't be as consistent as my colleague, but I want something out of this press, but it's about pensions. We're talking about pensions, we're talking about trust, we're talking about wanting it to work. I reached retirement age a month ago. Four months before that, I applied, provided all the documents to calculate how much I'd actually have, and I have nothing until today. And they say it's gonna take a month. It's not like I'm on the run, I'm not gonna die. But how long does it take, or are there any problems? I believe there are some retired retirees who don't have as many options as I do, and they might be miserable. I'm using this press a little bit to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka will now appear. President Schillerová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u22	I take the liberty of responding to the previous speakers. I think there are two things that need to be realized here. I mentioned it here at first reading. The YES movement here has promised several times to do pension reform. When the government was here only the ANO movement and then the ANO and social democracy government, Andrej Babiš repeatedly said that pension reform was a priority for him and that he would do it. I remember when he was still in Bohuslav Sobotka's coalition government, he argued with a loud voice that he had pension reform in his bag and that he would introduce her within three months. This was sometimes April 2014. Nothing's happened in those eight years. Not even the part that the Minister or Minister of Finance can change as part of the pension reform, when eight years of this resort was under the curate of the ANO movement, nothing happened at all. I would expect a responsible political party to say: Yes, the problem is here and we can solve it so that we can eliminate it and set up a system that will really be sustainable in the long term. But you didn't do any of this, and now you come here and say this criticism. The former Minister of Finance had many very strong statements in the media, when she disagreed with Minister Jana Maláčová at the time, about the fact that the former Minister of Finance said that it was necessary to extend the retirement age, that it was not possible to increase pension expenditure in such a way. That was a quote from the Treasury Secretary. I don't know what the difference is between Alena Schillerová in 2018 and 2019 and Alena Schillerová in 2023. So I'd like us to be rational about this. I understand that you have some kind of communication line right now, you have reason to scare people, say they're gonna get worse, but I'm clearly saying, people are gonna be fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u23	Time, Minister. [[Let's hear it to the right.]] President Schillerová, Mr Dufek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u24	But you've done the masterpiece, Minister, since your original statement. Well, let me remind you. I don't have that fast-tracked quote as my colleague, I'm sure it wouldn't be a problem. I'll do it as soon as I can. [[14.30 hours]] So you've said several times that we're borrowing for debt pensions. Why just retirement? We don't borrow money on guns over there? And I don't criticize the army, I don't criticize it. Or is that all we borrow on debt? You've got revenue, expenses. So why are we borrowing on debt? So you say and dig those ditches, on you, seniors, we borrow on debt. That's not what it's for. You said that x times. And your statement is legendary from January and it is also part of our submission to the Constitutional Court when you said: We will not change the valorization, we will not reduce the valorisation, we would simply, in the questions of Václav Moravec, it was in January before the presidential elections, yet we would behave unconstitutionally. There's no way you're doing this right after the presidential election in the way we all know it. Well, I said that in my performance; pension reform, reach out to your compatriots, with whom you are now in five coalition, who did what they did at a time when they simply had hundreds of billions of crowns in their privatization account, which they were supposed to direct to this pension reform. Yes, we didn't prepare it, we fought the covid. I'm not making excuses, I admit it. And on top of that, but you're not presenting any parameters of pension reform here at all, we're not talking about retirement at all, we're talking about the fact that you just want to cut pension for the current pensioners. That's all. Well, name it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u25	Mr. Dufek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u26	It's extremely interesting how the actual notes go up there. There were two, then six, now eight, maybe nine. So it looks like the fight's starting to grab. I'd probably go back to the beginning. We have one problem or one thing, it's an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. The opposition's right to say, and I don't know how many times it wants to say that it's actually a measure that is likely to be taken by people of the pre-accession age. The right of the coalition is to say it, we say it for the second time, that measures are going to preserve intergenerational reconciliation. We can say it a few more times, of course, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Juchelka will now appear, Mrs Peštová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u28	I understand Mr. Dufek social peace, and I'm sure we'll still be discussing it during this day. I'm just gonna quote again, because of course, there's only great facts to argue about various emotional outbursts. So I quote again, and it was during the press conference when the consolidation package was introduced, and I quote: "Danuše Nerudová is also the one who has led the last expert committee to change pensions here in recent years. And we didn't do it by building everything new on a green meadow, we took the good things that were worked out, on which there was professional and social agreement, and on the basis of these we continued to build a draft pension reform, which I will be presenting in a moment's time." These are the words of Minister Jurečka, who follows up on what took place under Babišův's reign in the permanent commission on fair pensions. So it's not true how the minister here says nothing happened. But if, of course, we accept it in some way and we accept it, then we can just look a little bit into the past, so that we know how KDU-ČSL waved the pension reform. So from 1992 she was in the government of Václav Klaus, since 1996 she was in the second government of Václav Klaus, then she met in the government of Josef Tošovský, then she was in the government of Vladimír Špidla, then Stanislav Gross, also Jiří Paroubek, there she was also in this government, then in the second government of Mirek Topolánek, then she met in the government of Jiří Rusnok, then she was in the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, it was in the government together with the movement ANO, and at this moment she is in the government of Petr Fiala. So even in the past, KDU-ČSL has not touched pension reform. Only now he's saying and piercing the others that they haven't touched her either. But we've been here since 2011. You've been here since 1992.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have a good afternoon. I'm taking the meeting and we're going to continue with the actual notes. Next is Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mr Jiří Mašek, Patrik Nacher and others. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I must commend my previous speaker, who actually said the same thing I wanted to say. I would add that in the first government where Andrej Babiš was Minister of Finance, so KDU was also. So, in my nature, I had it ready, too. Unfortunately, he burned my pond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. As Mr. Jiří Mašek, Mr. Patrik Nacher will be prepared, then Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u32	Dear Vice-President, colleagues, I would also respond to Minister Jurečka. I do not want to stress here that this is not a comprehensive pension reform, but really only a partial parametric change. I think it's gonna resonate here tonight, it's not retirement reform. But I always like international comparisons, so, Minister, I have found out how much is left of the wages of Španěl, Italian, Dán, Ital, Rakušan, Řek, Portugalec, Maďar, Turek and many others, and it is more than 80 percent of the last wage achieved. The Czech Republic with 65 percent is below the limit, below the OECD average, which is 68 percent. Our ambition, the intergenerational one, should be that our descendants will make it to the first league. But that would have to work, the economy would have to work, and we'd have to make money. Focus on getting the government to do their job so we can move on to the first league. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will be next, then Minister Marian Jurečka and Mr Jiří horák will be next. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u34	Well, thank you for your word. I didn't know I was gonna be talking to the facts so soon, but somehow it didn't work for me. So first of all, let's say this isn't a pension reform. That's like the first thing. I hope we agree on that. Secondly, there has been talk of pension reform since the year I was a press secretary or press spokesperson since 1996. Since 1996. The YES movement has entered the Government 2013. From your outputs, Minister, but also from other politicians, it seems as if the pension reform should be initiated only after the ANO movement has been established. It's not like that. Since 1996, we've been talking about pension reform. In the first government was the movement YES and KDU-ČSL. So if you're criticizing the YES movement, you have to criticize yourself logically, so that's one point. Yes, he was a covid here, so she already said to President Schillerová. It bothers me, too, that this thing hasn't moved. But it's not true how you summarize that the YES movement didn't do anything about it, and now you're saving it. This thing's been here 20 years. When it comes to intergenerational reconciliation, unfortunately, when you look at press monitoring, in the media, how you often explain it, you just say that there is something that needs to be done about it, because otherwise it will be in debt to the next generation, or that it will not be for parenting or that it will not be for anything else. But we're talking about a state budget deficit here. Well, then there are all the items in the deficit, not just pensions. You're delimiting the pension so that the pensioner feels guilty. So I've found the numbers so we know where it's going, so it's fair. So if you look at the share of old-age income per GDP, in 2010, it didn't exist yet, it was 8.46. Then it went up, down, and in 2021 it's 8.49, now it's 7.82. [[Your time.]] So it doesn't move up this way at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, too. Now, then, the Minister with a point of fact, then Mr Jiří Horák and Mrs Jana Hanzlíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u36	I think it would be good here to get to the substance of the matter, how to consolidate both the pension system and public finances, and to enable those systems to be set up to be sustainable in the long term. This proposal, which I made clear at the outset, is not the main package of pension reform. It will come to Parliament in the first half of next year for discussion. But these are the first two measures that we implement in this way. [[14.40 hours]] If we could really talk about the merits of the arguments and proposals that are going to be here from the opposition that they're going to say, we have a thought-out concept, we have arguments, numbers, dates, how to make this system better, how to make it more sustainable, but I don't hear anything like that. And when I look at those statements in the past, just for the record, Andrej Babiš, I quote - 25 years we've been talking about pension reform, now we want to try, even without trust, we'll rule to the fullest - 6. 12. 2017. Next, President Babiš - if we rule for four years, we will be in time for pension reform - statement 5. 1. 2018. Babiš asked - what is retirement reform? Who knows who will be with the government in 2030 - Andrej Babiš from last year. So it's just a sad parade that either the political party is serious and is consistently responsible, whether it's in the coalition or the opposition or not. Or he really doesn't mean it. Here's a quote from former Minister Alena Schillerová. Here, I apologize, so - the report from the Department of Labour on the state of the pension system talks about increasing retirement age in 40s and younger - even this simple measure would have a fundamental positive effect on the sustainability of the system, said Alena Schillerová. So you either say something three or four years ago, and it either has a ratio at the time, or it doesn't have a ratio, and it either doesn't apply today, or it doesn't apply today. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. As another Member, Jiří Horák, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, Patrik Nacher and others, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u38	Beautiful afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, here it is repeatedly heard by the opposition, in particular, that it is not a pension reform, that it is to quote some of those - unfinished business, unfinished. We think the whole package is a pension reform, and it responds to some social development. He's reacting to some demographic development in Western society. Anyone who has a bit of an orientation in demographics knows that, of course, as society modernizes, people live to be older and older. And that's good, that's good news. It's thanks to better health care and better care. So from the eighty-nineth, the average age in the Czech Republic has been extended by about seven, eight years. And that's good. However, as the company grows old throughout Western Europe, the pension account goes into deficit. The one - I'm not a cifrspy, there are of course better experts here, but I think this year it's a percentage of GDP of 70 billion. I guess so. And because, of course, it's an important topic, it's going to be the most touching of the 50s, the 40s, the 30s, so we're wondering if the opposition has a proposal for this pension reform, because it says it's necessary to complete it, and this is an incomplete pension reform, if we can see it, if you have any sketches on A4, the main parameters with calculated predictions, maybe by the year forty, fifty. Can we see it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. As another Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, Mr Patrik Nacher, Roman Kubíček and others. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, too. And I would like to respond to the Minister's words when he said that at the time that ANO was in government, nothing was done for seniors, so I would just like to remind you, and it wasn't that long ago, so I'm sure we'll all remember that pensions were growing, because at the time that YES came into government, pensions were ridiculously low, especially disability pensions. But at the same time, social services, health services, and all the measures proposed on the MPSV were designed to improve the quality of life of the elderly. But unfortunately, the parametric changes that we're discussing today, I'm not going to find one positive thing. All parametric changes will mean reducing pensions, or almost preventing early retirement for a large group of people, which is really very unfair for future seniors. So I'd like us to remember how it was, and really take a critical look at all the changes that we're discussing right now. These are simply cuts that will affect both current and future seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. As the next MP, Patrik Nacher. Mr Roman Kubíček, Alena Schillerová and others will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, I'll follow up on my colleague. Not only is there no positive anything, but there's nothing motivational. That's what I miss. But a quick response to the Minister. He said here, "Let's talk about these things, the parameters, the details, so that then the next sentence starts quoting someone from the past." So I'm going to draw the quotes and statements from KDU-ČSL officials back 20 years, and we're really not going anywhere. Including the fact that it was said, and that you said, Minister, in January, that extraordinary valorisation would not change in any way, so that the following - in two weeks you came up with this proposal. That means, you say, "We're not going anywhere with this - and then you start quoting opposition policy, and that stuff just fell out of it. And one comment on your honored colleague Horák - this really isn't a pension reform, you'd shoot yourself in your own leg. Because you - the coalition itself says it's not a pension reform. If it was a pension reform, it wouldn't be just a parametric change, it would also concern the third pillar or other financial products. After all, we've got it here as press 474. But, above all, if it were pension reform, so purely politically, I mean economically, there should be a general agreement between the coalition and the opposition, when this is the way to do a matter that goes through two, three, five electoral periods. You said yourself we're talking about what's gonna happen in 20, 30 years. This simply cannot be accepted as you have said, my colleague, through the Vice-President, that you come here with something and we are to give an alternative. We can do this for tax purposes. That'll be the next point. But certainly not in pension reform, if that's how you describe it. This must be the coalition's agreement with the opposition, or we'll come back after the next election. We've seen it before at the second pillar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Roman Kubíček, Alena Schillerová, Aleš Juchelka, Robert králíček and others are next in the order of factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. In my first period, I attended the meeting of the pension committee and it was an incredible Turkish market, because each of the views was a little different. One party said it was necessary to involve personal responsibility, the other party said that the sustainability of the course system was okay and we talked about some parametric changes that you are now giving, which shift some parameters and retirements. But you just fired the gun. Let's face it, you pulled the rescue brake because you scared the state budget deficit. There's no other reason. Because if you wanted to prepare it honestly, we'd have to sit down, we'd have to figure out what parameters we're going to set, what involvement of citizens and companies we're going to do. And watch out for that time of your life, watch out. I always turn to the doctors over there and they say, well, it hasn't changed much with those people. It's just that the medical care has changed, which allows you to live a long time, but not the active way of life. So I would be very careful and for me - it is not a pension reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. As another Mrs Alena Schillerová, then Aleš Juchelka and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. So he already told my honored colleague Roman Kubíček what I wanted to say. So maybe in other words, I stand by every statement, Mr. Secretary. Yes, our government has discussed this. Yes, economically, it has - of course, an extension of your retirement age, as the officials present to you today, so it has some economic positive effects. But exactly why our government didn't finally come to the meeting and keep the retirement age to that extension was just the time to live. That they didn't exist wasn't relevant data. And I also asked you at our meeting: do you have data? Here I answer to the honourable Member, I apologise, I dropped his name, through - Horák, Mr Horák, I apologize, through the Vice-President, but the relevant data must be given to the department. Or were you able, in opposition, to do such massive data, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, through the Vice-President? But that's what that army of clerks can do, those resorts can do. [[14.50 hours]] I was saying, document the analysis, not just extending the retirement age, which professions and what effect it has on life expectancy. It's not that simple. The time of life is more or less collected by some kind of questionnaire. It's very complicated, but it's absolutely essential. That is why our government decided in the end the way it decided, because the proper analysis was not delivered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the time. I'm asking. You have it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. Mr. Aleš Juchelka will be next, then Robert králíček, Marian Jurečka and others, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u48	Thank you very much. Once again, I will simply respond to the facts of what my honourable colleague, Mr Horák, has said here, through you. Yes, we actually have minus 70 or 80 billion crowns at this point in time in terms of the pensions. Otherwise, be careful. The ongoing pension system as we know it is balanced, yes, balanced. Whatever flows into him will also flow out of him. For example, during the reign of Andrej Babiš in 2018 and 2019 he was even in surplus. In 2020, thanks to the covid, he had a deficit, but it was expected that after the economy was opened up, the premium collection would start again, because companies would start working and so on. But look out, there's inflation. What is happening at the moment, of course, is that the government is not dealing with inflation, so it was by law that it had to pay off the so-called extraordinary valorisation, and that is the deficit of CZK 70 billion, which should, of course, go to the national budget. But not because of the ongoing pension system, which, as I say, is balanced. In 2018 and 2019 during the reign of Andrej Babiš was even in surplus. As far as funding is concerned. This is always the case with how pension spending is going to be based on gross domestic product, GDP. So we spend around 8.5% to 8.8% of GDP on pensions as a Czech Republic, even after extraordinary valuations. Austria, for example, 13 %, Italy less than 16 percent, Germany 10,2 percent and the average in the European Union is 12 percent. Those are OECD facts. I can, of course, present more and more. So, of course, I'd like us to have a good time at the expert level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. As the next Robert králíček, then Minister Marian Jurečka, Igor Hendrych and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u50	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I will not be able to respond to the consistency of Minister Jurečka and subsequently to Mr Horák, through Mr President. I feel a little bit surrounded by KDU-ČSL from all sides. However, I would only like to respond to Mr. Jurečka. He mocks us here with the statements made by President Schillerová and Mr Babiš and speaks of some consistency. However, my memory goes back to the last term, when he, as leader of one of the opposition parties, said how much we should give to the compensation of the covid, how high they should cover, who they should cover, who they should subsequently criticize from the position of coalition MP or from the position of minister, that it was a lot and that our former government owed this country and so on. I think we'd find a lot of cases of incoherence, specifically Mr. Marian Jurečka. Response to my colleague Horák, through Mr President. Even Mr Jurečka's statement, which I remember in the time of the covido, when, when he was called upon by the then government, KDU gave concrete proposals on how the government should perform at the time of the compensation, he said that their expert team, or KDU-ČSL, had some concrete proposals, but it will not replace the background of the ministry and other things. Now you want us to bring you an alternative to your proposal for pension reform from the opposition without the background, which Mr Jurečka also criticized. I think it's pure nonsense. Second thing, last one, hopefully I can make it. If we don't really agree on this, it's your irresponsibleness that in two years it will change again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. For the record, if you have a clear conscience, there's nothing to worry about, Mr. Ambassador. Now Minister Marian Jurečka, followed by Member Igor Hendrych, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u52	I'd really like to disagree with the fact that you're being ridiculed here. I don't really do that, and I don't do that. I was just quoting the exact statements that were made here. If those statements at the time that changed your view are ridiculous, then that's your business or your Prime Minister's business or those who said it for you. I'm just here to quote. It is from a book written personally by your President Andrej Babiš, who writes of pensions: "How much will we retire? We're gonna count the whole thing so you can enjoy your pension about a quarter of your life." Which is basically what we're proposing in this proposal that will come here in the first half of next year. Next, I will quote: "Pension reform is crucial to us, that is what we want. " I further quote: "The state can guarantee people a solid pension that will provide a living, but not a royal pension. Every healthy person has to take care of it himself." Next, I quote: "I don't know what pension reform is, I know we're going to raise pensions." So your President's statements went in time, but it only changed that he was in the coalition then and then he was in opposition. We're not asking you here - I'm turning to a colleague Bunny - to create something now. We're just referring to the fact that your president, who isn't here right now, says he's done with his pension reform. All we have to do is take the final pension reform and say-- we designed these and these parameters. Some, you might say, have aged in time. Let's talk about changing them, and we can talk about it. But I just miss having him put his proposal on the table here. If someone's been holding those resorts for eight years, they'll be able to say after about a year and three quarters or a year and a half, but I still have the proposal or the movement has it. I would never have used it if it hadn't been on this speaker's desk if Andrej Babiš hadn't said he already had it, and that he would have introduced it immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Igor Hendrych, then Mr Jiří Mašek and others, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Minister Jurečka is here with us and that he is communicating, so I hope he will respond to me too. It didn't come out here, I think, one thing that matters. Why are we dealing with these parametric adjustments today and not in the so-called big pension reform - although we have a slightly different name for it - after six months? Why are we dealing with this kind of thing in advance? I'm kind of saying this as a rhetorical question, and I'm gonna try to answer it. Well, because we're trying to save on current pensioners as quickly as possible so we can make it so there's no legal claim to extraordinary valorisation in September. That's my answer, but maybe the Minister will give me another one. It's a little startling, because we're in a hurry to put both current potential old-age and early-age pensioners at a serious disadvantage, and a year ago, we urged them to do so through an unnamed department director at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. 10. on Czech Television. Go as soon as possible, it can do you up to a thousand extra crowns. That's what the unnamed director said. Now we're just doing stuff like this that no one's been allowed to do for decades to make a jump like this suddenly shift the claim to retirement. Even early retirement is an old-age pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, too. Next up is Mr. Jiří Mašek, Robert králíček, Patrik Nacher and others, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u56	Mr President, allow me to respond by your means to a colleague, Horák, who invited us to an excursion to Western democracies, that they are doing much better there. So once again, I would use a few numbers and numbers, how many Western democracies of the type of Germany - there it is 10,2 percent - are spending on pensions from GDP. In Italy it is even 16 percent, but also in neighbouring Poland it is 10.6%. I'd like to compare it to what it looks like in health care. In 2018, we were still giving 7.7 percent of GDP to health care. It happens to be the same amount as we spend on pensions. So wouldn't it be more interesting if in the Europe we're looking at, the standard in health care is 10 percent of GDP, that way? Because we're different in a lot of things. When we go into the individual parameters, we're going to blame ourselves here for what we're different from, but that GDP should be a uniting element. And if Europe is at 10 per cent of GDP and more on the average of health care, at 10 per cent and more on pension spending, that should be the meta for us. [[15.00 hours]] Then we won't talk about whether we have little or much. The question is, where is the money actually disappearing from the state budget? That's a question for the minister. We should be defending 10 percent of GDP, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u57	Thank you and, as the next Robert králíček, Mr Robert králíček and then Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u58	Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to the debate and do a bit of an educational window for the Minister, because my last name does not depend on the rodent, Mr Zajíček, as he called me, but the bunny is the smallest songbird. It's a bunny and a bunny's fire, it's different by coloring wings. And I would have defined the course of the debate so far that the wings are light, so the bunny bunny. Just so you don't forget. And, more or less, I just wanted to respond to what you said you weren't mocking us - you're mocking us. Those statements by the President and the President were not ridiculous, they were based on a coalition from some time, and at that time, as Patrik Nacher spoke about it, it was almost 20 years. And you're pushing us into the fact that, in fact, in two years' time, when we ruled in a minority government, we were supposed to prepare a pension reform because two years later, the covid was saving himself. And you can mock the Prime Minister here, his remarks, but the result is that he doesn't trust you with three quarters of the population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u59	Mr Patrik Nacher will be next, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Robert králíček saved me half a minute when I wanted to make a window between animals that there was a difference between a rabbit and a rabbit. So I have more time to talk about the consistency here. The Minister brought that up as a subject. So let me remind you that KDU-ČSL in 2014, 2015 supported EET, now voted against EET. Then explain to me the consistency. The Minister lured people into early retirement, that it would pay off, and now, in fact, he's punishing the same people who would retire early. Again, where's the consistency? This whole government says the money was blown at the time of the covid. I have it prepared for the next point, but for the moment, when it is quoted here, I quote the amendments by Marian Jurečka, who, on the contrary, increased the compensation, extended it and did it for more people. Marian Jurečka: "The amendment proposal also proposes that, in addition to the CFI, it should concern entrepreneurs engaged in gainful activities in the form of s. r. o. In addition, Marian Jurečka proposes to add one year to the draft a delay in the term of payment of VAT for the tax period of the calendar year 2020. That would mean a cut, just for your information, 150 billion in that year. Marian Jurečka in another compensatory bonus and law proposes projection - remission, pardon - payment of compulsory advances for insurance premiums, pension insurance and contribution to state employment policy for October 2020 to March 2021. In another novel Marian Jurečka proposes increasing the daily amount of compensation bonus from CZK 500 to CZK 667. Finally, the Minister proposes entitlement to a compensatory bonus under the terms of this law so that it can even be recovered from 1 January. 2021. These are the real proposals you have proposed as an opposition politician. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, now Minister Marian Jurečka, Mr. Jiří Horák will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. I will not go into the biological windows here, it is also contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the House. The real point is to what the previous speakers mentioned earlier. However, I would like to add to the question of ridiculousness: you are ridiculous at the moment when you have the position of Minister of Finance, saying something that, at the moment you are in opposition, you deny and actually say something completely different. In that you're ridiculous, none of you can make fun of yourself, that's what you make of yourself. And if you have any suggestion that your chairman here was talking about having him ready, then introduce him. Or maybe you're ridiculous because he said something and he didn't have it. That's the view of where the line of ridicule is. And this draft pension reform, which is here, which, in its full legislative text, will come to discussion by the government at the end of the year and Parliament for the first half of next year, so the YES proposal follows up on what the previous commission has also done, the things on which we have been able to agree, we have incorporated into the proposal. We're not really building on a green meadow here, and I've said that repeatedly, and I appreciate that, and I feel like it's meaningful. I have also met many previous presidents of previous commissions, such as Mr Bezděk and others. I also discussed their conclusions with them, and on this ground plan of these outputs we tried to build a proposal that is here today. The vast majority of economists and experts say that this is a step necessary, a step in the right direction. We're making it in a minute of 12. And, of course, if anyone from the opposition comes up with other serious parametric suggestions on how to adjust the pension system on the income side or on the expenditure side - I have always said, it applies, I am ready to discuss these things and include them there. But it cannot be that it comes here with proposals that mean more and more spending, and there is no proposal to promote greater stability of the system and its sustainability.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. As another Member, Mr Jiří horák, then Mrs Alena Schillerová and again Mr Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. I'll just have a quick reaction. It's just technically - I didn't say they were doing anything better in the West, or I said that in advanced states, populations generally age, it's normal, it's in all developed states. It's also in Japan, some colleagues can confirm, it's just in all advanced states. It's a natural trend. And then only briefly to Mr. Juchelek. Well, there's one thing I disagree with. [[President: Through me, please.]] Sorry, through everything. Well, the valorizations are extraordinary. They're staying in that retirement account. They'll stay out of the proper year, they won't go down, the valorizations, the ones that have already been counted, so I don't agree with you on this. And if it doesn't happen - if nothing happens, it will definitely happen that the account will be in deficit next year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. Now, President Alena Schillerová, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Real notes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, now I don't know who to respond to first. I wanted to respond to the Minister, but now I was so shocked by Mr Horák, that I was completely shocked, dismayed. Nothing, no, there's no way I'm going to dehonest this place. So we don't have any pension accounts, through the Vice-President, we... the valorisations stay there - the valorisation is the protection of purchasing, it has to be calculated. This is calculated on the basis of inflation for growth in real wages, half. You want to cut it down. Well, she's a lot deeper than that, let's just leave it at that. Here's to the Minister: but we stand by all these statements, Minister. You didn't say anything that basically, that we wouldn't stand for. Okay, we haven't done pension reform, like no other government has done 35 years before, I'm admitting it here. I made those reasons clear. I know you wanted to wag the dog a little bit, you did a little bit, but let's go back. So far, your proposals for pension reform are in the realm of fairy tales. So far, we've heard a bombastic press conference. This is not a pension reform, we agree, and you say next semester and so on. She's the question, the question is, what are you going to put forward next semester, if you're going to present anything at all, and if you're going to present something that the next government will have to cancel again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. As the next Minister Marian Jurečka with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u68	I am simply to tell you briefly, the reform has the key elements that actually build the ongoing pillar on the very essence, and that is support for families, support for parenthood, support for the merits of raising children. We took the first step when we took up training from January 1st of this year, 500 crowns for mothers who raised children, for every raised child a month. That solves the consequences of justice in the system. We're removing the cause in pension reform. We appreciate the motherhood and parenthood of a family basis that will appreciate and not punish moms and parents. The second important step, the common assessment base. Husbands will be able to share their average income, which will ensure more dignified pensions for them, especially women. [[15.10 hours]] Another measure that is there, support and appreciation of care for a person close to him, improvement of the conditions of widowing and widowing pensions. There are a number of very important, let's say, prosocial, pro-solidar measures, including a proposal for early departures in demanding professions without any form of reduction. And then there's some things on the revenue security side for the system. But if we don't do anything, in 2050 at today's prices, the system will be in deficit minus CZK 370 billion a year. Either we collect it extra in taxes, or other ministries will have to save it, or a real paycheck will go down, and that's what we're dealing with, and we're dealing with the problem. So it's an important step in 25 years that hasn't been made here. We're making it now. It's a shame someone didn't do it four years ago, eight years ago. I wasn't the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I'm taking this responsibility seriously today, and I'm proposing this change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Two further factual points - first Mr Aleš Juchelka, then Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u70	Thank you very much. I have to respond to the Minister. So, Minister, once again, I'm telling you that we have a balanced pension system. You didn't do anything about inflation, which is why we're at a negative point at the moment, and now we're standing here in front of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, because it's precisely that the inflation that did the government budget cut, you want to deal with, for example, reducing extraordinary and proper valorisation for current pensioners, and for those who want to retire early or retire in, like, a year, in 10 months. This is not a pension reform that deals with a package that is in the context of the first, second and third pillars. At this point, you're just dealing with the parametric changes to bring to the state budget, in which you're not dealing with inflation, by not putting a good price on energy and so on, they've made a hole that's constantly getting deeper. And at this point, you're not going to say, well, we're going to have a state budget deficit here, so we don't want all the seniors to fall, so we're not going to be buying two of these x-gripens, because those two gripens are going to bail out this pension system right here. No, you say, we'll take it to the old-age folks, and maybe we'll buy more of those two gripenas. Because you know very well that the state budget deficit is happening not only on the MPSV page, but also on the website of education, health, defense, all the ministries that are here. Everyone is involved in some way in the state budget deficit. But you only take it from old-age pensioners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u71	Mr Patrik Nacher will be next, Minister Marian Jurečka will be prepared - both factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm glad we left the topic of ridicule and consistency. I don't think I'm gonna get a reaction to a inconsistent attitude towards the EET, early pensions, or compensation, which is your mantra of all actually presented points today that the high compensation and resourcefulness of the previous government caused where we are. But I have one simple question about this material. Minister, you said yourself we're talking about what's going to happen in 2050. That's what you said - I've been paying attention, it's definitely in the log. So I'm wondering if you can answer completely simply, if you, as a coalition, are going to negotiate with the opposition about parameters of pension reform at all the different levels that it has - from the ongoing system, the third pillar, I don't know what everything, some intergenerational solidarity, other products and so on? That's a very simple question. If you're changing the parameters here that affect something that's going to be in 2050, I think even though you have 108, you don't have the pouvoir for it. It's legal, for me it's illegitimate at that point, because there's a big threat that when there's a big deal that some of these things can change after the next election. And that includes, by the way, the next point. So if you can simply answer me if you're ready to deal with the parameters of real pension reform even though you have a hundred and eight, or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u73	Thank you, too. A real remark from the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. I've dealt with opposition representatives, I'm ready to move on, look for maximum consensus. My colleagues at the SPD and I talked about having another meeting in July. Here I must say that our last negotiations have been very constructive, I think, with the concrete proposals that our colleagues have come up with, talked about supporting families, family policies, not resigning to support families and changing demographic developments so that we can get back to growth. It seemed logical, meaningful to me, and I'm definitely prepared to look for a consensus on these things. When the YES movement comes and wants to discuss these matters with us, I will be very happy to take part in the negotiations, and the negotiations will be held repeatedly. There have been opposition representatives, i.e. representatives of social partners, as employers, trade unions, running a working group. The representatives of both opposition parties are on a working team that will act for at least another six months, so these meetings are running and I am open. And now I want to ask here, and I am responding to Mr Aleš Juchelka, through Mr President. Please don't lie and don't say it! The pension system has been in deficit of CZK 422 billion since 2000. We don't have a balanced pension system. Yes, there were a few years when we were rarely in surplus, but otherwise we are in deficit minus CZK 422 billion. As an elderly member of the Social Committee, I assume you have the data. And if you are reading the explanatory memorandum to this press, here, clearly from the explanatory memorandum right at the outset, this measure has no major impact on the deficit in the next or next year, but has a major influence in the long term for the next twenty to twenty-five years. So this is a change that is really important especially in the medium and long term and that early retirement as an instrument really serves to leave at a time when a person can't and is not enough to do his job.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 14.45 to 21 for work reasons, Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes. Given that we have exhausted all the factual points, we will now take the path of priority rights. First of all, President Tomio Okamura and then Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who will present the opinion of the SPD. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u76	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have here a proposal from the government of the five-wheeler to which the Fialův government is promoting a de facto retirement rip-off. The government proposes a significant reduction in the proper remuneration of pensions, a complete abolition of exceptional pension valorisations and tightening the conditions for early retirement pensions, including a reduction in this type of pension. The SPD movement clearly rejects these government proposals. At the same time, we are proposing ten own amendments to this government amendment, where we demand to maintain the existing form of pension valuations or their alternative adjustment in the form of raising pensions for all their beneficiaries by the same financial amount, which would be fair and would help low-income pensioners. With regard to early pensions, we propose maintaining the current setting of conditions, including allowing limited earnings when receiving them as well as for employees on a standard employment basis. At the same time, we propose the possibility of leaving for a proper old-age pension without any reduction for citizens who have spent 45 years or more on pension insurance. The SPD movement will defend and defend the social and economic interests and rights of all current and future pension recipients. We all agree here that there is a need for pension reform. However, the fundamental difference is in the view of implementing this reform. While the SPD wants dignified conditions for both current and future pensioners, the Fialův government really wants to rob them. But the road can't be that, at a time when life costs rise recordlessly because of an incompetent government, the government takes money away from people. We're talking about helpless people, old, sick, or even disabled fellow citizens who don't have the power to increase their income. [[15.20 hours]] The solution is not so unrealistic, but the problem with pensions needs to be addressed on several levels. They will not help the simple accounting tricks that the desperate Fialův government is doing, i.e. on the income side, to increase taxes, levies, and on the other, not tovalorize pensions, to keep inflation deliberately, expensive energy, high spending on both foreigners and self-management. The state must learn to find revenue elsewhere than in tax collection, whatever we call it. I mention the examples here regularly. Compare Deutsche Post and Czech Post. German Post and its daughters make money to the German state, and they even make money to the Czech Republic. Czech Post is a bottomless loss well because it falls under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, which is run by incompetent politicians, currently Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement. The German state or German federal states have, of course, shares in many other profitable companies, including Volkswagen, which owns the once Czech Škodovka. For example, Kuwait has the largest stake in the parent company Daimler, which owns Mercedes and others. And by the way, our škodovka indirectly owns the Němec and the Qatari state. The Volkswagen Group of 20 percent owns the state of Lower Saxony and 17 percent belongs to Katar. I miss one reason why there isn't a penny of the Czech Republic in such companies or similar companies. Why does most earnings come from the Czech Republic abroad and not from Czech citizens? Then no wonder they have higher pensions in Germany. It is not because they have more productivity there, it is no longer true, but it is because companies pour artificially money into their mother countries, so the Čech work on German pensioners. I think we should think about it. First of all, the government should work for its citizens and its pensioners and, if necessary, have some investment money, even abroad. Why can't the Němec work on us for a while? After all, he owes us over 15,000 billion for the war reparations. The Czech Government should at least have the courage to ask the Němec to pay their debt, as the Řek or Polák did without shame. Let us remember that our claim is indisputable against their claim, and the Němec have never questioned it as opposed to Czech politicians and journalists. For millennia, wise states and wise rulers have not relied on taxes, but sought other direct own sources of income. When Karel IV, the father of his country, wanted to secure the university, he gave her fields and forests to have her own independent income. The state must start investing in projects that have profitable potential, just as smart states do on the entire planet. The tax burden cannot be increased indefinitely and at the same time social aid cannot be reduced indefinitely. This isn't the way. In addition, the system needs to be set up. The head of the Supreme Audit Office, Mr Kala, recently said what we all feel: the Czech Republic has moved from market economy to full economy of subsidy. Only between 2014 and 2022, 750 billion crowns were paid for our subsidies and a large part flew out the window. Why? In the case of beneficiaries, the effort of the subsidy is beginning to wear out regardless of the benefits to the economy. These are the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office. And against that, let us set up a mirror, as the politicians of Fialův's five-calice government, but even the ANO movement and Andrej Babiš are constantly patronizing themselves with subsidies, they still say: subsidies. It's a grant mantra. But even the Supreme Audit Office has confirmed what I have been saying here for years, and I have been attacked for this, that the subsidies are basically inextricably used, and even in the Supreme Audit Office's findings it says that often the effectiveness of these subsidies or the purpose is only met by 10 percent - that is an incredibly low number. So I'd like to ask you to stop lying about the subsidies here, because subsidies are the way to hell, and if we keep the money here ourselves in the Czech Republic, and the 10 percent, we won't just have to take it to the European Union, but we're gonna use that 10 percent right here after our own check-up. So it's completely different with the subsidies. And once again, I stress that these are the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office published this year, and it's from 2014 to 2022, it's not in the last year to two, it's in a really long eight-year period. So that's how it is, and this is how we should pour clean wine here. It's just as I pointed out. So you guys blew up incredible hundreds of billions here, literally hundreds of billions, because 750 billion crowns were paid in subsidies, hundreds of billions completely, and it didn't even fulfill the purpose for which the subsidies were intended. So this is the system that has been supporting the Brussels parties all this time, which means everyone other than the SPD, here in Parliament, and we are the only ones here to draw attention to it. Then, of course, we can't be surprised that there are financial problems behind this irresponsible policy. And what does that have to do with pensions? Quite directly, the economy has to make money for pensions, not exhaust them. Granting policy not only drains money, but in many cases weakens the economy. One farmer confided to the media why he did not accept subsidies - because he had to produce exactly as planned in order to receive subsidies. As he reaps, produces and produces more than is permitted in his box, the subsidies must be returned. The subsidy rules directly force you to adjust and limit your business according to the rules - completely purposefully and to the detriment of your economy as well as your entire economy. The income of the state is one thing, the other is the change in the pensions themselves. The state by pension ensures its old or helpless citizens who have complied with the state-set rules. This pension must be enough for a decent life, rent, food, clothing, culture and social life in old age. This pension should be at least at the level of the poverty threshold given for the Czech Republic, so that the old people do not live below this limit. But as we know, this is not the situation in the Czech Republic at present, so many of our citizens live on or below the poverty line, it is even said that it is more than a million citizens of the Czech Republic, meaning every tenth citizen in the Czech Republic. And, of course, not only the Fialův government but also the previous governments are responsible for this. What must be said last but not least is that, at the same time as the above, the state should start to make life cheaper not only for itself but also for citizens. There have been, of course, energy, water and telecommunications for years, and I say, for the SPD, that it is quite appropriate to nationalise CEZ, that water should return after criminal privatisation to the hands of cities and municipalities, and, as regards telecommunications, the State should at least provide an alternative service through a state-owned company, thereby clearly reducing prices on the market immediately. If CEZ sells electricity for two to three crowns per kilowatt hour, it will earn directly on the 3 crowns, people and companies will reduce costs, people will subsequently need less social assistance and companies will have more money to invest in taxes - and the state will earn again. By the way, ČEZ's nationalisation, the purchase of minority shareholders' shares, has already been calculated by experts that it would cost about CZK 200 billion, so even in light of the money, what the Purple Government is doing here, it is not really a big expense, because, of course, profit for Czech citizens in that form that the government could then take full responsibility for distribution, production and price policy, in terms of electricity, would essentially return to our citizens very quickly. For many years, we have had some of the most expensive telecommunications for the previously incompetent governments. We have overpriced water, we have overpriced banking services, we have overpriced food and other goods that, world, wonder, in the West have cheaper, even though they earn more. Again, it is simple mathematics: reduce the prices of food, energy, telecommunications, etc., and there will be no need to increase wages or pensions so much. You help speculators twitch citizens and businesses as much as you can, and then you scream that seniors are going through too much. That's pretty disgusting, and the blame for everything falls on your head and - truth - even all past governments. [[15.30 hours]] But let us go to the concrete proposals that the government and Minister Jurečka are making here today. Unfortunately, the government's proposal to amend the Pension Insurance Act is neither the first nor any other part of the long - promised pension reform. It is only a series of several parametric adjustments to this law, which relate to the form of proper and extraordinary valorisation of pensions and tightening the conditions for early retirement pension and the conditions for its acquisition, amount or increase. It is therefore only about reducing the rate of growth of pensions and their real value and purchasing power compared to the current state. The government wants to reduce the growth rate of proper pension valorizations, and it wants to abolish extraordinary valuations, which will harm all pensioners and the most low-income ones. The tightening of the conditions for early retirement will, in turn, unwarrantedly intervene heavily and harm citizens who have worked hard all their lives, from, say, 17, 18 years of age, in heavy professions and have broken health, or virtually all working college students. The government wants to punish these people even five times: it will reduce the time before they can retire prematurely, from five to three years. It will further extend the period of participation in pension insurance, after which you can retire early, from 35 to 40 years. Thirdly, it will tighten the coefficient of permanent reduction of early retirement. Fourthly, it proposes a total ban on valorisation of the merit, i.e. the significantly higher component of early retirement. That's amoral to unconstitutional. The fifth penalty for early retirement recipients by the government is a ban on income through gainful activity, i.e. in the rule of law, a ban on the exercise of insured employment, even if it is a minimum part-time job. The Minister Jurečka's proposal reduces the extent of a substantial part of the proper valuation of pensions from the current percentage of the corresponding half of the growth in real wages to a third of this growth and cancels the extraordinary valuation straight away. The exceptional remuneration of pensions in the case of inflation growth, the so-called retirement consumer basket, is to be replaced by a temporary social contribution in the reference period, a social benefit called pension allowance, paid only for a limited period of several, three to six months, until the next proper increase in pensions. Another problem is that this addition would not, in addition, become a permanent and firm part of the pension ratio, which will significantly and permanently reduce pensions for all beneficiaries. This means that, so far, during legal valorisation, when there was an extraordinary valuation of pensions, it was, of course, counted to the pension recipients for the next period as a basis for further valorisation. Now, the government is suggesting that it will be replaced by a one-off contribution, but it will not count on future valorisation. So basically it's not just that I'd say the actual ripping-off of pensioners for the promised valorization, as we witnessed from the government now in June, when you took the pensioners on average CZK 1,000 a month, that means 12,000 crowns a year, but you actually took more from them, because if there had been a valorisation, as citizens had the right to do in June, then the basis for valorization will be increased for next year, and logically the pensioners would have received more. That means it's not just about a thousand a month on average. If we include in this next year, you took a lot more than a thousand a month on average. And now, because you want to replace it with a one-time dose instead of a legal valorization, of course, you're reducing the valorization further. So that's a real problem, okay? And that, I must say, bothers us. The government compares this encore with its average nominal amount to the form of this year's reduced June extraordinary pension valorisation, which is dealt with by the Constitutional Court. It is therefore a reduction of the average extraordinary valuation for the average pension each time from approximately CZK 1,000 with all the impact on the further development of the pension for each beneficiary, i.e. on the reduction of the amount and the rate of growth of this pension. This unwarranted and antisocial change will irreversibly damage hundreds of thousands of pension recipients, lead to so-called income poverty, and this is unacceptable for us. The ultimate paradox of abolishing the Institute of Extra-Retirement and replacing it with a temporary ad hoc social benefit is that there could be very real situations where pensions of all their beneficiaries could be reduced not only in real terms but also in absolute terms at the nominal amount of the period on 1 January of a certain year after the withdrawal of that temporary allowance. Moreover, because Petr Fiala's government is absolutely unable to cope with the inflation that it itself produces by combining its dilettantism and inactivity, the real wages of Czech employees have been falling for the second year. As you know, the decline in real wages of Czech employees is, according to the latest data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation, the OECD, even the Czech Republic has the highest decline in real wages from all OECD member states, and the OECD, as we know, brings together essentially most developed countries of the world. So even in this parameter, the Fialův government is even the worst, worst of all the more advanced countries in the world, which is, of course, a Europe-wide unique, so the proper January pension valorisation may be repeatedly lower than in previous years just because wage growth cannot and will not be taken into account because there isn't. The government is to fight the causes of inflation, the rising public budget deficit, the astronomically high energy, food and housing prices, and not the elderly and their living and existential levels. They did not cause record inflation on a European scale either. Lower inflation is equal to, among other things, lower costs of valorisation of pensions. That is why the so-called precocious pension account, for example from 2018 to 2019, was in quite a significant surplus and can be balanced or surplus again if we have an economically literate and sane government. Two-digit inflation and a hundred-billion-dollar deficit of the state budget are not some kind of downside and forever - it is just a business card for a particular government, namely the current five-coal of Fialův. In the SPD, we demand that the form of proper valuations does not change in any way, that the Institute of Emergency Pension Valorisation should be maintained, that inflation in the so-called retirement consumer basket should always grow fully, as it has been, and that the increase in pensions in the form of extraordinary valuation remains a permanent part of the pension. We are willing to act on pensions, and it has been our constant position for several years, at the most about their possible future change, which would set their mechanism as fairly as possible, so as not to harm low-income pensioners, which is undoubtedly happening now. That is why we have long been proposing that it should be increased as much as possible in terms of the rate of inflation and real wages growth by the same financial amount, calculated, for example, from the current average pension, the basic component of pensions, which is uniform for all its beneficiaries, while maintaining a certain degree of merit. Let's talk about that. By the way, our SPD Member Lucie Šafránková also submits an amendment with this content. As far as the government proposal to tighten the conditions for early retirement is concerned, it is unthinkable for us to support it in any way - and we have also told Minister Jurečka during mutual negotiations - especially because the possibility of early retirement makes it too difficult and completely inappropriate, making it virtually untapped for large groups of citizens in the future, even because it reduces these pensions on a flat-rate basis. In general, as an SPD regarding the adjustment of early pensions, we recognise the need to set the conditions for their drawing, setting them up and their amount so that the early pension is not more favourable than the regular pension, which has now sometimes occurred in high inflation years - not because of pension seekers. For this, however, one simple adjustment of their conversion is sufficient. [[15.40 hours]] But the government's proposal goes much further than necessary in this regard. Let us also note that early retirement citizens in the vast majority of cases do not go because they do not want to work anymore and that they are looking forward to a time when their monthly income falls by more than half, on the contrary, because they can no longer work for health reasons, or they have lost their jobs, and they cannot find new ones, especially in some regions. Because, according to a number of analyses on the labour market, people in the nearest pre-retirement age are in the most difficult position. Or they are asking for early retirement, especially recently, because they are rightly concerned about the social changes in the pension system by the current government coalition, and so they want to save what is still possible and at least have some certainty in their life situation and in their old age. This motivation will be strengthened by this government proposal and will lead to further flooding of already heavily burdened or overloaded branches of the Czech Social Security Administration, which are therefore unable to deal with pension applications within a legal period, which causes huge financial and other problems for future pensioners. On the subject of early pensions and the alleged need for substantial changes in their adjustment in terms of budgetary impacts, I will add one very important and crucial press statement by the spokesman of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of Jakub Augusta at the beginning of April this year. A statement that unfortunately came together. So what did the press spokesperson of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, led by the current Minister Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, say. And it may only be an unwanted argument, not to support the government's procedure, but an argument in favour of the SPD's approach to this issue. According to this statement by the Ministry, I quote: "The sustained reduction and reduction of pensions for early retirees in the current form covers the costs that these pensioners represent for the State. For example, in February 2023 a total of 684 000 old-age pensions were paid, which were permanently reduced because they were granted before the pension age was reached. From the point of view of the impact on budget expenditure, those who have retired early and have not yet reached retirement age represent an additional cost of about CZK 800 million per month. On the other hand, for those who have already reached retirement age, early retirement costs are lower than if they had left when they reached retirement age. This saving is approximately twice as high as the pension costs paid before retirement age and compensates for potential lost social security contributions which would otherwise have been paid by early retirement persons until retirement age if they had not retired'. End of quote. This really is an extremely important quote from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Minister Jurečka. Because the ministry itself clearly admits through the mouth of its press secretary that early pensions - even at a time when they are asked for by a highly above-average number of people compared to previous years - do not pose any problem for our state in terms of budgetary balance. On the contrary. In the long run, the state will save money. And the D.O.D. itself admits it. So a change in their settings is absolutely not necessary. And it's just one piece from a mosaic of government action against a lifetime of honest-to-work citizens. The same is true of the government's intention to reduce future pension valorisations. This is unacceptable to us in principle, socially and in value. The fair mechanism of extraordinary valuations is one of the essential features and characteristics of the nature of the ongoing pension system, as long-term adjustment and the non-changingness of the form of its key parameters are also a form of long-term social contract. Any departure from the rules in force in the pension area, which takes the form of robbing pensioners, then undermines citizens' confidence in the pension system as such and thus its motivational role, including the willingness of citizens to pay pension insurance. And this is the phenomenon that we are witnessing on the air by the Fialův Government. This is precisely what threatens the stability of our pension system most, and it affects both its economic efficiency and the very foundations of natural social and intergenerational belonging. When we talk about government proposals for a change in the pension system, i.e. in translation of government plans for a significant and permanent reduction, and thus of plans for a permanent reduction of pensions, which the government is planning to deepen in the new pensions since 2026 by making their future calculation more disadvantageous than the current one, we must also say very loudly that the pension is not a social benefit, let alone a minor from the state. On the contrary, it is a premium of its kind, which its recipients have worked very hard in decades and paid for it. And no government, not even the current one, has the right to change its conditions in the course of the game and to reduce it and improve it at the expense of pensioners, a catastrophic budget deficit and government debt, which is not caused by pensioners, but mostly by the dilettantism of this government, the Fialův Government's five-coal. The prognosis of the development and sustainability of our pension system, as well as its future setting, and any possible changes, must be a fundamental issue of the political debate of the present and of the expert, factual and fair debate, when we will solve issues and problems really essential and tell the truth to ourselves and, above all, to the citizens. That is why we must also say that the greatest burden will be placed on our pension system from around 2035 to 2055, when the share of people over the age of 65 will increase from around 2 million to 3 million people, i.e. at a rate of 100,000 new pensioners per year. Then, in terms of stability of the ongoing system of the situation, it will start to improve significantly, even in the face of sustained demographic developments that are not ideal, and we in the SPD seek to change it through effective pro-family policies and support for birth rates in working families. This, too, needs to be said in debates about the Czech pension system and its possible changes. And don't scare citizens by not taking pensions, that we're doomed to permanently deepen the pension deficit. It's not true. And here, of course, I was very unpleasantly surprised that it was KDU-ČSL, led by KDU-ČSL Chairman and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who was protecting himself from the elections with a family policy, that is, you who basically support the changes in the consolidation package, when you cancel families with children in kindergarten, limit the discount on a working husband and wife and so on, that is basically a blow to solar. To all decent working families with children and instead of supporting them, you're actually making life even more expensive and difficult for them. And it is also a complete resignation to any active economic, economic, fiscal and budgetary policy and responsibility by the state, or government, of any government. We are not even doomed to a single possible solution regarding the parametric changes in the pension system, which is in the submission of the politicians of the government coalition increasing the age limit for entitlement to retirement. It's not like that. Administrative, arbitrary and forced extension of retirement periods, according to many economists and experts on pension issues, not only does they solve nothing, but also essentially eliminates the possibility of gradually introducing a system of effective motivation to extend the period of another voluntary - with emphasis on this word, the profitable employment of seniors. Voluntary employment of seniors. This is economically, from the point of view of increasing the revenue of the state budget through the collection of pension insurance, a much more advantageous procedure than a mechanical counterproductive increase in the retirement age from the table. Professionally, support for voluntary work at retirement age is called a postgraduate pension bonus. And we would implement it, for example, by forgiving voluntarily working seniors the income tax and significantly increasing it at the same time by increasing the coefficient that will increase their pension every year, so that it would be highly motivating. [[15.50 hours]] Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka himself in an interview for the Money server. cz last April he said, quote - the quote will be longer, so I will read it, and it will be the quote of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka: "I would not go this way - by increasing the age of retirement. I understand that the time of survival is increasing, but on the other hand, we have to figure out what the quality of life is at an older age. I want to go the way of motivation. I tell people that if they're physically and mentally capable of doing this, they can continue volunteering at retirement age, but I don't think telling everyone in all the professions can do that on a flat-rate basis. When a person is worn out throughout an adult's life at work, there is also a risk for people who depend on his work. Therefore, I do not want to increase retirement age on a flat-rate basis." End of quote by the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who said this last April, when he was also Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Those were the words of Minister Jurečka. But the year he met with the year, and the minister either radically changed his mind, which is unlikely during such a short period of time and at an adult age, or he wasn't telling the truth at the time. Or isn't he saying it today? Each of these options is quite trivial with a high constitutional officer, and unfortunately it is a phenomenon that has recently been affecting more members of the government and its prime minister. When we talk in the SPD about the reform of the pension system, we do not mean a total change in its architecture from an ongoing system to a fund-based, i.e. mandatory pension savings in private pension funds. On the contrary, we clearly reject this. As I said in the introduction, we mean comprehensive reform. In the context of setting up a pension scheme, it is worth constantly stressing that the so-called pension account or pension fund consists of contributions from those who pay pension insurance in the amount stipulated by the law in question, and people pay these contributions in good faith, with the fact that sometimes in the future they will be able to draw their resources into the scheme. Politicians, not even those of the current antisocial government, therefore they have no blank cheque to do with pensions as they please at the moment. Let's also stress the insurance moment, although pension insurance is not a 100% commercial type insurance and bears in part the features of the tax. In the case of insurance, we are insured in case an insurance event occurs. In the case of retirement, the insurance event is retirement, or the arrival of old age and the limited possibility or inability to work and earn a living only by work, and in each insurance policy it is so that the provision of insurance always depends to a large extent on how much we pay on this insurance. Our compensation or insurance, in this case retirement, depends on the amount of insurance we pay each other. The government coalition also often says that the ratio of old-age pensions to average wages is unprecedentedly high and requires reductions. So let me just remind you that in 1990 the average old-age pension was CZK 1,763 and the average gross wage at that time was CZK 3,286. Thus, the average pension at that time represented 53 percent of the average gross wage. This is only to the margins and to explain to those who have a problem with the current amount of income in the average wage, which today amounts to less than 50 per cent. So 33 years after the regime change, we're not even on the numbers at the time. One more comment on the pension system as a whole. By not distinguishing between its contributors, the pension system significantly disadvantages families raising children, which are subsequently future contributors to this system. We should change that immediately, and we at the SPD keep saying that. Recently, Pavel Rusý, a statistics and sociologist, writes and publishes very interesting analyses on this topic. He says, among other things, and it is clear that the ongoing pension system is financed from two, not just one source. The first source is social insurance, the second and equally indispensable source is financial and personal investment into a new generation of payers. And that's what the SPD's been trying to point out here all along, that there's a need for the state to invest in enough new generation of payers to set up a clear national policy, to encourage decent working families not to be afraid to have a second, third child. It is said that the cost of raising a child under the age of 18 is at least CZK 1.5 million in current prices. Taking into account this fundamental principle in government proposals for changes in the Pension Insurance Act is completely absent, and this could be done, for example, through an adjustment of a fixed coefficient of 1,5 % so far, multiplying the number of years of insurance and a calculation base derived from earlier income in the percentage merit of the pension statement. Pavel Rusý proposes a change in the sense that this coefficient would be different in years when one did not raise and live children, for example 1.4 %, but in the years that he fed the child, this coefficient would increase by 0.2 % for each child in a given year. Such a solution would take account of the merit of the part of the population that contributes to the ongoing system by paying both insurance premiums and nutrition and raising a new generation. Moreover, it would be an adjustment linked to the percentage of pensions and therefore could not benefit those who had children but did not work. It would also be important that this consideration of supporting the continuity of the system would be reflected in the retirement of both parents raising a child, not just one of them. There is also a differentiation of social security in this context. In fact, his system now states that a parent raising a child pays social, i.e. pension insurance, basically even from the part of the income attributable to raising his children. This does not make any logical sense or moral justification, as opposed to health insurance, where it is logical, as children also benefit from health care. The reduced social security rate for each dependent child would help families significantly at the time of child care and would also reduce my economic discrimination against families with children. Many politicians, especially those of government, are trying to suggest to us that retirement is some kind of state gift. Perhaps it is a coincidence of ignorance and the fact that pensions are de facto paid out of the state budget. It is this fact that often leads to pensions becoming, unfortunately, a toy for politicians at the expense of their beneficiaries, and completely insidious and dangerous. Retirements who cannot defend themselves from government and political reasons are, in this respect, an easy target of antisocial politicians without scruples. It is the cynicism of the roughest grain that society divides and can sometimes provoke envy or hatred of pensioners as those responsible for the poor economic and budgetary situation, and for someone we must involuntaryly sponsor. This false and evil concept must be rejected with all determination. In the SPD, we say clearly: retired people owe us nothing, on the contrary, we owe them nothing. I call on the government to stop thinking about how to rob current or future pensioners, and rather let us work on how to change our pension system and, at the same time, the economy of the state, strengthen its incomes and restore its role as a guarantee of social security for helpless and old people. The SPD movement will not support government proposals to effectively rob current and future pensioners. Finally, I would like to thank Minister Marian Jurečka, because he is probably the only Minister of the Fialův Government who has also addressed us as opposition, and there have been several meetings that have been very constructive. We have spoken on a professional level, we have invited our own experts, and I think that for such an important thing as changing pensions, even though we as the opposition did not have a chance to push our proposals through and promote, so that we are also part of the debate that we have information, we can give opposing opinions, for that is thanks to the Minister. And we look forward to the next meeting, which was announced sometime in July, that we will be able to continue to be part of those negotiations so that we simply have information, because it is changes that will, of course, touch - there are also other parliamentary periods in the horizon, and there are other parliamentary periods, so I think that we should communicate with each other on these matters, whether we agree with them or not. So thank you for your attention, and that's it for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. I am registering two other priority rights, and Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be the next to present the opinion of the SPD, and then the priority right of President Radim Fiala is that of President Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for your say, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, this government amendment on pension insurance is very unfortunate not only in terms of content. That is, of course, the worst thing about her, and if she passes, the damage and injustice committed by this government on current and future pensioners will be irreversible. But there are even longer negative connotations. First of all, the change in the conditions for early retirement, more precisely the change to worse, is preceded by the legislative adjustment of the earlier retirement period to a regular and unabated old-age pension for employees working in demanding professions. The commitment of this legislative regulation was already part of the previous government's government statement. It is outrageous that the current government is unable to present it, and that, in this urgent and necessary amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, the proposal for a significant tightening of the conditions for early retirement and its further drawing is a serious mistake and will cause major and serious problems for pension recipients as well as for executive or judicial authorities in the future. It is an incomprehensible and indefensible step by the government. So much for an introduction. As far as the government's regulation of the early retirement system is concerned, it is an antisocial and discriminatory series of measures, which can trigger and very likely cause a number of disputes. It is not possible to dig up fundamental and deep financial and legal ditches between people who, after a lifetime of hard work, go into early retirement this December and next January. It is not possible and permissible to punish people who will want to retire early in the next year in five different ways. It is shameful by the government to heal on these people and to do so as a certain perverse bonus to reduce all pensioners' proper remuneration of pensions, and the extraordinary one, as we know it today, is to just cancel them and replace them with a temporary social benefit, while the government wants to take away for three years any valorisation of the merit component of their pensions. Do you have any sense? Do you have a heart? Apparently not. It is vile to try to reduce the budget deficit that has gotten out of hand at the expense of seniors, disabled people, widows, widows and orphans. As I recently stated towards the premiere of the Fial during oral intercessions, this government, in a year and a half, has been very unkindly colored into ugly and antisocial shades of colour. It is our duty to draw attention to this and to stand on the side of pensioners and all decent working citizens. That is why I am making a total of ten amendments to this government proposal to amend the pension insurance law for the SPD movement, and I am also making a motion to reject it. And in case it fails, I'm also filing a motion to return the petitioner to work. In the proposal under the number of the House document 2780, I propose maintaining the current adjustment of the early pension scheme, i.e. entitlement to early retirement pension at the earliest five years before entitlement to a full retirement pension and at the earliest sixty years after the 35 years of the period of participation in pension insurance, while reducing the amount of the pension will remain graduated in three current types of coefficients according to the time that the beneficiary of the pension is entitled to a regular, unabated old-age pension, with the fact that the early pension will continue to be fully paid as a regular pension. In the proposal under House document number 2782 I propose that the current system be maintained and the form of setting early pensions, while at the same time suggesting that it be possible for employees to make a profit in receiving them as well as for standard insured employment up to 75 per cent of the minimum wage per calendar month. It makes no sense at all when early retirement can be earned on uninsured agreements outside of employment or as self-employed persons on a secondary activity, but not as part-time employees. This adjustment would help pensioners, significantly increase the income of the State on pension insurance and improve the balance of the pension account. The proposal under the number of the House document 2783 concerns purely and exclusively the possibility of making early income payments to employees and employees within the framework of a legally defined occupation up to 75 per cent of the monthly minimum wage. In the proposal, under the number of the House document 2784, I propose to change only one parameter for early pensions, namely the setting of their reduction. This is fully sufficient to ensure that early retirement is not higher and more favourable than a regular pension for citizens with the same previous employment income and insurance contributions. This is quite sufficient for a fair adjustment of the pension system. In the proposal under House document number 2786, I propose that the early retirement pension should not be reduced in any way to people who have paid pension insurance for at least 45 years. Furthermore, in the proposal under the number of the House document 2787, I propose maintaining the current mechanism and the form of setting up early retirement pensions and, moreover, the already described measure of not reducing early retirement pensions to people who have paid pension insurance for at least 45 years. In the next proposal under the number of House document 2788, I propose maintaining the setting of parameters for the proper valorisation of pensions in the current form, i.e. by a full rate of inflation plus by half the growth of real wages. In the proposal under the number of House document 2789, I propose maintaining the adjustment of both proper and extraordinary valuation of pensions in the current form. This is the only fair way of protecting pension recipients from being more expensive and from falling into income poverty. In the proposal under the number of the House document 2790, I propose maintaining the current basic form of setting the proper and extraordinary valuation of pensions, with the fact that, in the context of extraordinary valuation, the percentages of all pensions would always increase to all their beneficiaries by the same nominal financial amount, which would correspond to an amount equal to the share of the current level of inflation on the average pension. This would ensure a higher level of protection for low-income pensioners and a halt to the trend of opening imaginary scissors between income and living standards of individual groups of pensioners that are not socially desirable. And in the last proposal under the number of House document 2848, together with my colleague Lesenská and my colleague Radek Rozvoral, we propose maintaining the current adjustment of the form and mechanism of the system of early retirement pensions and both types of pension valorisation, both proper and exceptional. In order to protect our pensioners, I ask you to support these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u79	Thank you. I will just point out, Madame, as you have tabled the proposal for completion, of course, that the motion for refusal has been registered, but I would just like to point out that we are at second reading. You might propose, for example, a return to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, but at this reading, this cannot be done. So do you agree that this is how we're going to change it? Yes? Could you just do it on the microphone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u80	Yes, thank you for your warning, and I suggest that we return the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, registered, it's fine like this. I also thank you for your contribution and I would like to call on you - President Radim Fiala is signed up with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, allow me to comment on what we are discussing today, which means a reduction in pension valorisation and, in general, on the pension system. I mean, I have been here several times on the issue of the pension system. I have expressed my views and views as well as the views and views of the SPD movement on reform, the necessary measures that we must take now in this area and which we must also do in the long term. I have also been here several times at a meeting where, in an unconstitutional, unconstitutional state of legislative emergency, I believe, a government reduction in the extraordinary valorisation of pensions, to which their beneficiaries already believe a legal claim has been established, which is also an unconstitutional step in our view, and I have also appeared here during the first reading of this government amendment, which is often repeatedly and pointlessly referred to as the opening part of the promised government pension reform. That is not the case. It is an illogical, antisocial and poorly-timed set of measures that have one thing in common: it will make the income situation worse and complicate the lives of all current and future pensioners and the most vulnerable, the low-income ones, or those who have worked their whole lives in demanding professions and often have broken health. We have repeatedly said this to Minister Jurečka at several of our mutual negotiations during this semester. At these meetings, we also presented our ideas on what should be done in the agendas, which are covered by the amendment on pension insurance today, namely on the setting up of both proper and extraordinary remuneration of pensions and on the overall setting of early pensions. It wasn't reflected, and I respect that. There is a sort of government majority of 108 Members, we live in democracy, and unfortunately that is all we can do about it. Clearly, our meetings with the Minister were purely formal. When we have government responsibility, then we will put these ideas into practice, and I will at least make a general statement to them today, because journalists ask very often: What will you read there for so long? And I think that it is not only a matter of criticizing what Minister Jurečka and this government have prepared, but also of telling our ideas about how we would do it, how we would do it, when we rule, what we would change, how we think it really is. At the outset, I will repeat briefly that in the SPD we recognise the need to make pensions, or in the wider area of public policies, which affect the stability of the pension system most and create, changes that will lead to long-term sustainability of the pension system and which will enable pensions to grow continuously and enable all of their beneficiaries to live dignified lives without the need to ask for lifelong honest work for social benefits without fear of debts and execution. I declare this as both a clear and budgetary priority for the SPD movement and I believe that this is certainly not enough. Pensions are not a burden on the state budget, but, on the contrary, their most important component for which money must always be paid. It's a difference in understanding this component. Of course it's a huge amount in the state budget, but the important thing is whether we see it as a burden on the state budget or whether we see it as its most important component. Pensions are not, as we often hear, paid on some debt. It is the claim income of those who have paid them richly for their life's work, pension contributions and children's education. In practically all other expenditure items we can cut, many of them directly and immediately have to be crossed out, but never in pensions. Let me be clear about that. Let's not scare people out of retirement. It has to be, it has to be, it will be. It is the government's duty to ensure that, and we are aware of that. A government that doesn't or doesn't want to fulfill this basic axiom simply doesn't have to rule. Moreover, the apocalyptic haunting of 40 - year - olds today does not respond to reality and could even be described as spreading the alarm message. Even the most pessimistic forecasts for the development of the level of state pensions expect average pensions to be around 35 percent of the average wage, which may not be a tragedy at the rate of increase in real wages, as was the case before the onset of Fialův's five-coal government. Creating a myth that it will not be for pensions and that the entire pension system is a sort of like a fraudulent financial product of the type of aircraft, encourages citizens, especially younger ones, to make up for paying taxes and levies, which could ultimately lead to the unsustainable pension system, because why would they do that when the government tells them that when they are retirement age, it simply won't be for them to retire? Why would they do that? I think the rhetoric should be exactly the opposite. Such talk simply cannot be conducted by a responsible politician, and if it leads it, it is either irresponsible or it really wants it not to be for pensions - it is the same as in financial markets - or it wants pension insurance and pension payments to be the subject of speculation in private pension funds and large business for a few selected players. And we completely refuse to do that. In addition to long-term, truly generously systematic and effective support for birth rates in working families and working families as such, it is essential for the sustainability of both the pension system and the so-called pension account to ensure that inflation is constantly low and that unemployment is as low as possible. Inflation is the problem, because we are actually canceling something here to protect Czech seniors, Czech pensioners from high inflation. So inflation is the opponent that this government has to focus on, and this government has completely failed. More precisely, that as many people of working age work in standard employment, from which insurance contributions are paid, or to do business as businessmen, as self-employed persons on the standard market. There is one principle, one rule, that no ongoing pension system will be sustainable without the birth of children, because the rule lies in the principle that pensions will not be saved, but children pay them to their parents. This is a fundamental principle, which should also be part of pension reform. The key is that as many of these people as possible pay pension insurance which will not be liquidated for them and their employers. Then it will not be necessary to increase the rate of this pension insurance, and yet the volume of its collection will increase. Of course, it is also important that wages from which this insurance is paid continue to grow, so that we are not, as the state, the economist Karel Kříž - the feeder of Europe, or, as Professor Švihlíková says, the economic colony of the West, from which multinational corporations drain all profits and added value without adequately paying their Czech employees who are actually creating this wealth. We discussed this this morning before this meeting that it was a new type of economic neocolonialism. The so-called third voluntary pension pillar will also be fundamentally adapted to serve to ensure that seniors are quite old. People still save here in funds with very low profitability and at the same time with too high bank charges. According to OECD data and National Budget Board studies, Czech pension funds belong, and now listen carefully, among the least profitable in the world and at the same time have some of the highest operating fees. What does that even mean? Their revenues do not lead to old-age reinsurance and about half of the state's investment, i.e. state financial support for this type of savings, is indirectly directed at banks, mostly foreign-owned, at these very charges. The management of these funds is often arranged and implemented by the foreign mothers of Czech branches of banks, thus reducing the taxation of these profits in the Czech Republic, which is part of the wider problem of the flow of non-taxed dividends from the Czech Republic, which is the first relevant political force in the country in the long term since 2016. Again, economic neocolonialism. [[16.20 hours]] As I have warned here several times, the structure of contributions to voluntary pension savings is also a big problem. Most people start preparing for retirement very late, and 26 percent of savers in pension funds are even in retirement age, because at retirement age they realize that they could get into relatively large financial problems. And they still want the Fialův Government, the five coalition government, to take state aid quite discriminatoryly, even though it is decent and responsible citizens who, while they can, save up for a later phase of their age, when they may be worse off, will not be able to make extra money and their health will require higher costs, regardless of any cost of assistance services and the like, or who will save up their children or grandchildren. By the way, the Pension Funds Association in connection with the announced withdrawal of State aid to pensioners saving voluntarily in the third pillar warns against the departure of hundreds of thousands of contributors from this system as a result of this government step. What's gonna happen? Well, it's just not gonna really be for the pensions, or half the money will be for it, which will also lead to unwanted quite serious damage to the stability of our bond market, including the negative impact on the repayment of the sovereign debt. Taking State aid from these people now is pointless and unfair. Plus, it's literally a blow to the back because it's a change of rules during the game. And why aren't younger people saving up to retire in the third pillar? There is no need to be a Nobelův Prize winner for economics to answer, just use common sense. They just can't do it. Raising children today and surviving even from an average salary, or even from a slightly above the national average, is a respectable economic performance due to government unsolved and partly government-provoked rise in the prices of the most basic cost of living. We can also see on official data that hundreds of thousands of people already have to go into savings if they still have some to cope with their mandatory monthly spending. So how else are they supposed to volunteer for retirement? And what will the government do at this point? It will increase the monthly deposit of voluntary pension savings from which state aid is granted from CZK 300 to CZK 500. So further reductions in people who will pay extra, who will save in the pension system instead of supporting monthly deposits below CZK 300, as the SPD suggests, bring younger working citizens and low-income workers into the voluntary pension saving system. They have the highest cost of savings in the form of a reduction in the standard of living and do not have any alternative pension policies. Regardless of the fact that I personally believe that a person who has worked honestly for decades and raised children in addition to this must have a state pension for a dignified life of old age. So let us reconstruct the third voluntary pension pillar so that it is motivated and functional, we work quickly to strengthen the voluntary pension saving system, saves us multiplely higher items, which we will otherwise be forced to pay to future seniors in decades at various social benefits. But most importantly, this third pension pillar must, in my opinion, be guaranteed by the state so that it does not happen that a foreign bank or an entrepreneur simply takes it away and disappears with it unknown to where - it must be guaranteed. Overall, let us focus mainly on national policy, on combating inflation and on higher wages, these are the three most important things - we in the SPD have dozens of specific proposals in this regard and we will also present them - and, on the contrary, let us not deteriorate the parameters of the pension system that have meaning. As regards the issue of early pensions and government proposals for their changes, the government first chose the wrong chronology of action. Finally, the possibility of early retirement without any further reduction in staff in demanding professions is needed in a legislative manner. We in the SPD have always proposed and insisted that the list of these professions be as complete as possible and that it be drawn up on the basis of consultations with experts on occupational medicine and with doctors and health professionals specializing in occupational diseases and hygiene of the working environment, i.e. with experts who have something to say about it. In all the negotiations on pension reform, we have requested that the proposal for early retirement for staff in demanding professions be approved before tightening the conditions for early retirement for other pension payers. The reverse government procedure does not make sense or sense, and soon it can cause big problems, and it probably will, because many people in demanding professions are so exhausted after a lifetime of hard work and they have such health problems that I simply cannot wait until 65 years of age or when the government decides to submit the relevant legislative proposal and leave immediately for early retirement, even if it is financially disadvantageous for them. They just can't physically do it anymore. And then, perhaps after a year, a proposal for an unabated early retirement will be approved for members of demanding professions. And what happens next? Will these people remain in a disadvantageous early retirement? Or will the state allow them to move into a proper, unabated pension? Or are they gonna sue, file complaints with the Ombudsman and all that? Has anyone in the government ever thought of this? I don't think so. As regards the tightening conditions for entitlement to early retirement pension and its calculation and future amount, our specific amendments have already been presented in detail by my colleague Lucie Šafránková. I'll limit myself to a few facts. First, let us imagine a person who has worked hard since he was 18 years old in a physically difficult profession and is already in very poor health, and so, according to the amended pension insurance law, he will apply for early retirement at the first possible opportunity. That'll be at 62 years old. So, after 44 years of hard work and pension insurance for a period that is still 9 years longer than the period of payment of this insurance for entitlement to a standard regular old-age pension, this citizen will receive a significantly reduced pension, which will not, moreover, be validated for three years. Tell me, it's normal, it's ethical, is it moral? It's not, and it's at first sight. What will this lead to, among other things? Let's keep modeling the situation. The citizens who are considering early retirement will immediately request it to be granted as soon as possible, even this year, under much more favourable conditions than those which the government in the amendment we are discussing here is proposing. So we can look forward in quotation marks to even more overloaded branches of the Czech Social Security Administration than it is now, and even longer to handle pension applications than the legal deadline. In fact, financial and tax advisors and lawyers advise this in large and public terms to their clients. All you have to do is open newspapers and magazines and have counseling, legal counseling. Everyone says to them, "Go." They recommend, for example, to submit a form of entitlement to a pension benefit during the summer holidays and to check for an early retirement pension. A six-month period will then begin, during which a standard application for an early retirement pension can already be drawn up and the pension will be granted retroactively. It's a shift. Last year it recommended to apply for early retirement because it was more advantageous than a regular pension, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself, and thus caused a flood of branches of its own Social Security Administration. Now these recommendations give private persons, the effect will be the same. One pension advisor published a very interesting comparison in an interview on News.cz. A person with a median income who would retire early next year under existing rules would receive a pension of CZK 13,908. If legislative changes are to apply today, his early pension will be CZK 13,050. For higher pensions, this decline and the difference will, of course, be even more pronounced. [[16.30 hours]] Worse is the second planned change in addition to the reduction of the pension, namely that this early pension would not have been virtually Valorized until the period of entitlement to a regular old-age pension, i.e. three years. In addition, it is now possible to retire early at the age of 60; it will not be possible until 62 years old. So if, theoretically, anyone planned to retire early, for example, in January next year, because they're 60 years old, they'll have to wait another two years, and they'll know about this fundamental change in the rules literally a few weeks in advance. Is that the predictability of the law and the decent progress of the state towards the citizens? It doesn't matter what categories, whether they're retired or young or working. The situation where certain conditions apply one day and the other day the conditions are different and significantly worse is unacceptable and unprecedented. It is a long-term non-conceptionary act. In the modern history of Czech democratic statehood, no government has so much to do with jumping and from one day to the next to increase the age of entitlement to an old-age pension by two years, albeit premature. It is still an old-age pension for which the applicant must meet demanding conditions. Now, the same period of pension insurance, now even five years longer, and you're going to raise his pension age by two years? It's literally government political because of and malice. This can also be well demonstrated in the example of the difference between the early pension from last December and the early pension granted after this amendment will eventually take effect today. At the end of the vloni, a man with a median income who had retired early on the advice of Minister Jurečka received a pension of CZK 13 966, which was increased to CZK 14 620 from January 2023 after a proper valuation, from this June after an extraordinary valuation to CZK 15 264. The person who spent his entire life earning and doing the same, but will retire early according to new rules in January 2024, will have a pension of - and now listen carefully - 12 433 CZK. Not only will he have an old-age pension of several thousand crowns, but this pension will not be compared to another three years, while the first person will have his pension fully audited throughout this period, so the difference between the pensions of these two people can reach up to CZK 6,000 after the next three years, with scissors spreading even more. It's about people who spent their entire lives taking out the same high pension insurance, and the other one was only guilty of early retirement later than the first one. Are you kidding people? I think it would be best to use a sharper expression at the end of the previous sentence. But now we're still looking at pension valorizations. The limitation of the extraordinary June legal valorisation of pensions imposed by the government - in our opinion unconstitutionally, I already mentioned this at the beginning, in a state of legislative emergency - has nothing to do with pension reform as a system of measures that should be operational for a longer period exceeding at least several parliamentary periods. It would only be another one-time cut. It would only be cuts that this government responds to the catastrophic state of public finances, which, moreover, has largely co-incriminated itself. This government should fight inflation, not the elderly. The same is true for the permanent reduction in pension valorisation, which the government is proposing now instead of deploying instruments that it has at its disposal and reducing inflation and inflation expectations in the economy, respectively. The high rate of inflation remains a defining feature of the Czech economy and has also been translated into inflation expectations through the use of various inflation clauses, such as lease agreements. Moreover, the government also proposes increasing excise taxes and an increase accompanied by VAT chaos, which paves the way for further and further continuation of even higher inflation expectations and continued high inflation. The limitation of the legal valorisation of pensions clearly shows that the government has no idea what is going on in the economy. He acts chaoticly, inconclusively, improvising at the last moment, taking advantage of his dominant positions in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. I'm going to take a short turn on the consolidation package here. I believe that in the second reading of the consolidation package, the government will come up with big changes, because what it has done now, what it is doing at first reading, and the way the consolidation package is designed, it is just a non-negotiable withdrawal of money from the pockets of people without any concept, without a system. I don't think it's gonna be easy for a five-wheeler to raise her hand, either, so I expect a lot of changes. Instead, the government does not devote itself to macroeconomic priorities, and instead, individual government parties at the five-police negotiations call for budget items that will be crossed out or weakened in order to subsequently look for untrustworthy reasons why they did so. So high inflation is a key problem, as I have already put forward. The pensioners have been protected from high inflation with the main objective of ensuring that they are entitled to the same part of the consumer basket, i.e. the same or similar approach to the basic needs of life adequate to their age and life situation. That's right and completely legitimate. But the current government wants to break this long-term social agreement and show, figuratively speaking, the elderly, what the elbow is. This is a complete disgrace, especially in the knowledge that items such as rent, energy, medicines, food are dominated in the consumer basket of seniors, which are now commodities whose rate of increase is far higher than average inflation. The government therefore does not address the stability of public finances by the proposed change in the valuation scheme, which affects all pension beneficiaries, but shows only its own failure to set priorities for economic policy, some concept, a system and then implement it. Instead of addressing long-term problems on the part of budget revenues, and especially expenditure, the government is breaking up between individual generations and social groups and just preparing the ground for another economic crisis. Therefore, for the permanent reduction of real pensions in the form of social austerity, we will never raise our hand in the SPD either, of course, or for changes that will make the conditions in the area of early pensions significantly worse. Our primary reasons are content and I have described them quite in detail here. No less important are our reasons, so to speak, procedural. For one thing, this is a major breakthrough into the legitimate expectations of people who intend to apply for early retirement pensions and, as a result, a fatal inequality between pre-retirement applicants and their beneficiaries, whose intensity, in our view, exceeds the limits tolerated in the rule of law. It is unacceptable for us and how the government has messed up its individual proposed changes in the pension system, instead of discussing them properly with the opposition, then working thoroughly legislatively and then presenting a comprehensive pension reform here in the House, where its individual actions will not contradict each other, will not be discriminatory and where the date of its effectiveness will be set in such a way that citizens and authorities can prepare themselves thoroughly and sufficiently. But I have to say clearly here and thank Minister Jurečka that he treated us at least three times, even if the meetings were formal, but we could have said something about it and said something about it. Unfortunately, the government didn't take anything out of it, it's sad, and it's a big shame. This does not meet the material presented and therefore does not deserve our support, so we will vote against this law, against this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u83	Thank you, too. I will write an apology in the meantime, and that is the excuse of Minister Michal Šalomoun. He apologizes from 5:00 p.m. for work reasons. [[16.40 hours]] And now we're going to proceed to the next ones logged in as they are on the board. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is the first to sign in, and Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Minister - not the government, none of them are here. It is a real shame because it is many and many citizens of our Republic. I don't think they care. So, Minister, honourable Members, Madam President of the House, by your means, we are blaming the social media for just babbling and not coming up with our own proposals, so I would like to set it right, and I will not do it on social networks. What do you want with us as a coalition? You have put forward some partial proposals for amending the pension system, and we do not agree with them except for some pieces. We don't want to modify them, we don't like them - we say so, we don't support them. We do not want to change the partial pension system, it is, as you call it, reform, it is not really reform at all, because your partial changes seriously harm one group of residents of our Republic, namely our seniors. We've told you a lot of reasons why we think it's wrong, but the fool is not the one who argues against something, but the one who doesn't listen to arguments. We have never questioned the need for pension reform, none of us, even we would really like to work with you on it. But that means willing to compromise, and unfortunately, you don't have that. You lack any humility and you go hard on your own, which we're about to see, or maybe tomorrow morning or next week, I don't know when you all come back to your benches to overrule us with your hundred-eight. So you have not submitted pension reform, you are just adjusting the existing system, and you are doing it wrong. Pension reform is not just where to save and who to take away. Pension reform is supposed to be primarily about motivation. You're supposed to let people work longer. You're supposed to make them so that they can save better on their pension, and so they're less dependent on money from the state. If we're talking about pension reform, we're dealing with the second and third pillars. We're only talking about the first pillar, and that's just where to get it. We'd talk about the future. Your changes largely affect current pensioners, such as your upcoming or proposed changes in valorisations. Where, then, do we see something similar to pension reform in your proposals? You don't have to look for it, I'll give you a hint: nowhere. A number of surveys show what people are most concerned about. It is quite obvious and clear that much depends on the age of the surveyed group, and it is not just that many young people still have their retirement funding, because it is too distant a topic for them, but some are dealing with it. They even expect to start saving money as soon as possible for their retirement. And that's the main thing I'm accusing you of. From a certain age to a certain age, people will not be able to prepare for your changes, even if they wanted to do so a thousand times and had the opportunity. Moreover, your changes come at a time when people simply cannot deposit more pension money, because unfortunately they have nothing left. And that's not because they spend too much money. It's because prices have gone up disproportionately. And the little that he sometimes saves will usually fall on unexpected expenses. Everyone knows them - the washing machine can break, the fridge can break or something like that. So they're going to retire with what they have because they're not going to be able to create any more financial pillows if they don't already have one. So much for burying the middle and older generations. They don't have a chance to get ready. The fact that you're upsetting the younger generation against them, that instead of explaining that people have earned their pensions, you're stressing that if you don't choke them now, the younger generation may not have it on them, but that's what I've been talking about. Another thing that bothers me is your pace, basically all the things that concern pensions and pensioners. You approve them in an accelerated process, we've been through this before. Why? Not only do you not listen to the opposition, but you do not provide the necessary space or the professional public. You don't come from deeper analysis, you go the simplest way possible, push through the House to the power of change. Are you complaining that you're tired of listening to us? Well, I may have a surprise for you. We're tired of saying the same things over and over again and what we don't like. We say them at first reading, we say them at committees, we say them at third reading, and nothing, actually, no response from your side. Just the contempt, the arrogance that you show, for example, through your President of the House, through you, Madam Vice-President. I'd just like to point out that you don't despise us here, you despise everyone who disagrees with you, and you do it in all areas of public life. It's just a little bit more obvious here, your labeling. So I'm going to repeat two of my biggest reservations about your proposal for changes in this pension package again. The first are your changes in the terms of early retirement, the second is an adjustment to extraordinary valuations. I fully respect that early retirement should not be paid to people, that people should be motivated to work as long as possible. However, I do miss the motivational file in your designs somehow. Instead, for example, of lower taxation for working pensioners, of motivating employers to make it worthwhile for them to keep jobs for people of retirement age, for example in the form of short-time jobs, you do not suggest that. On the contrary, you punish people who would like to retire early twice. Once by having a lower pension, and twice by not valorizing the percentage of pensions until their retirement age is reached. Why this double penalty? No one was able to explain it to us. Well, I'm gonna try this again, and I'd like Minister Jurečka to answer that question. Why double-penalty? I also find it incomprehensible to me to increase the necessary pension periods to grant an early retirement pension from 35 to 40 years. I don't think it's right, and paradoxically, it hits the generation that's defending you right now. Or maybe that's what you're trying to motivate people to go away to college, I don't know. Adjustment of pension valorization is simply a step back before 2018. Your proposal to use only one third of the real wage growth on a regular basis instead of half of the current wage growth and only to take into account the consumer price index of pensioners' households, i.e. without comparing it with the general index of price growth and higher index selection, is wrong. It's just that you take away those who are most threatened just because you can't handle inflation. And that's how we get to the beginning of the wheel. Do something about inflation, although you could start now, but it's probably too late. If you did something about inflation, we don't have to defend our seniors here today from the pasque proposal that you put forward, and you'll have time or you'll be able to come up with a real pension reform that we can take seriously, we'll have concrete proposals and comments on it, because we'll come up with a draft pension reform, not just partial changes in parameters, that's your job now. Or at least admit you can't handle it. [[16.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I see that there are many and many points to discuss, and I think that the President has also said that he will consider signing this law so that it does not interfere much with the lives of our most threatened, so, Madam Vice-President, I ask for a procedural vote to propose that this item be interrupted by the first meeting in September, after the holidays, which will be from 11. 9. so that we can really all get together and try to find a compromise. I'm asking for a vote right after my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u85	You're proposing an interruption by 11. 9. [[Yes.]] I have engaged and perceived - with a procedural proposal, with a counterproposal by Mr Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u86	Good afternoon. Madam Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to take the liberty of counter-proposal on the procedural proposal made here by Mrs Jana Pastuchová. At this point, I'm putting down a counterproposal to interrupt this point for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, counterproposal for five minutes. Recorded. I see another counterproposal by Mr Dubský. Please. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, good afternoon. Madam President, Minister, I would like to put forward a proposal to interrupt the meeting for 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. I would really like us to proceed to the vote. He still wants a counter-proposal, Mr. President. Please be very quick to get to it. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Madam President, I would like to put forward a procedural counterclaim to interrupt this point by 16.55. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u91	We have these counterproposals, it is clear I will put them to the vote immediately. I merely reiterate that we will be the first to vote against Mr Kaňkovský's proposal, then the other counterproposals put forward, and finally, if we come to this, Mrs Pastuchová's proposal to interrupt the meeting in September beginning with 11. 9. Is that clear to everyone what we're going to vote on? I am opening the vote on the counter-proposal of Mr Kaňkovský. [[Checkout request.]] I understand the vote (number 4) is misguided. I'll have you all checked out. Please log in with your ID cards. The vote was declared confusing. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. We will now vote on the counter-proposal of Mr Kaňkovský - a five-minute interruption. Initiating vote. I said, who's up for a five-minute interruption? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting number 5, 147 votes cast, for 11, against 76. The motion was denied. Mr Tomáš Dubský made another counter-proposal. It's a 10-minute interruption. I'm starting the vote again. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number six, 152 votes in favour of 4, against 88. This proposal was also rejected. We will proceed to Mr Karel Haas' last counter-proposal, namely an interruption of 16.55. It's still voteable. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number seven, 155 votes in favour of 14, anti-86. The motion was also rejected. And now we approach the proposal tabled by Mrs Jana Pastuchová to interrupt the meeting beginning on 9/11. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? [[Big noise in the hall.]] Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace in the hall. Voting number 8, 157 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 65, against 90. The motion was denied. This is how we have dealt with all the proposals that are currently being voted on, and we can go back to the debate, where Mr Karel Rais is the next Mr Karel Rais, followed by Mrs Andrea Babišová. But let's wait for a moment, Mr. Ambassador, before it gets quiet in the hall, before everyone leaves the O.R. who wants to make calls in the lobby. I will really ask all those who want to discuss anything to leave the O.R. and there is a decent room for discussion. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u92	Madam Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Minister - I will pass - the Minister - there are not - colleagues and colleagues, of course I agree with what my colleague said that the proposal would need improvement, but I am focusing only on my two amendments that I have put into the system. It is an amendment under Nos 2806 and 2805. The first one is devoted to raising pensions in case of price increases. Basically, if I have to simplify this very much, in those two amendments, I am concerned with keeping the state of play and not accepting the proposed changes, which clearly harm all pensioners who are not afraid to rob the current government. [[Noise in the hall.]] In the Czech Republic, a total of 2 409 000 people receive an old-age pension, which is about 22 percent of the population. I was ready to start, and now I've forgotten that I'm retired myself, too, so basically I'd find myself there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u93	Ambassador, I'm going to apologize, but I'm going to interrupt you because there's a lot of noise in the room. Really please, colleagues, who you want to speak, find a room other than this hall. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u94	I'm used to school, I don't think it's that much anymore, but I'll welcome peace of mind, of course. So if I were to say this in one sentence, the point is that the proposed changes in the amendment clearly affect all pensioners who are not afraid to rob the current government, and I would like to address it here with these two amendments. We all perceive, of course, that the new pensioner's standard of living will fall dramatically at the time of retirement. Finally, I gave the numbers at the first reading. The pensioner's legislation so far has at least protected against a real decline in pensions in the future, thanks to the reflection of price growth as a result of inflation. The government's proposal changes that. The relevant indicator of price growth, which will be taken into account in pension valorisation, will no longer be flat-rate inflation, i.e. inflation, which affects the rise in prices of all commodities in society, but unfortunately only inflation, which affects the living costs of pensioners' households. Removing the collection from two indices will lead to a long-term reduction in pensions for pensioners and some gradual begging of pensioners. [[17,00 hours]] The proposed bill doesn't contain a proposal for a change in valorisation, but it's more of a guide to long-term begging senior citizens live, as I said a moment ago. By any approval of the draft law presented, a group of pensioners will again depart from the working standard of living. Pensioners will thus become persons on the outskirts of society, which I consider to be an undignified condition. Therefore, I propose that we keep the existing text. If I were to sum this up, with high inflation, the state receives more income, because prices are high, so logically it must contribute to increased cost of living for pensioners. I have just mentioned these changes in my amendment under number 2805. The second amendment addresses the issue of raising pensions in real wage growth, in fact in inflation. Again, the bill significantly limits the dramatic reduction in living standards, as foreseen by the current bill, when inflation rises. The legislation has slowed this fall in time due to the reflection of real wages growth in annual pension valorization, albeit half. The government's proposal significantly reduces valorisation by suggesting a third growth instead of half. This will further distance a group of pensioners from the standard of living of workers. Retirements will, in turn, become persons on the outskirts of society, which I consider to be an undignified state of conflicting intergenerational solidarity. I therefore propose to keep the current text, and this is what my Amendment 2806 is talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u95	I also thank you, Mr Member, and Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u96	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and, above all, honourable Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I would like to ask you if you would be so kind, because this law affects extraordinary valorisation, proper valorisation and early pensions, if you would be so kind and with priority right to speak out and explain to me the precise effectiveness of the various sections of the bill, so since it will affect those extraordinary valorizations, proper valorisations and within the framework of early pensions, because at this very moment I feel a little bit that you are pushing for this law to be passed quickly, so that, if necessary, the seniors will not be entitled to the extraordinary valorisation to which they will be entitled on September 1st, so if you would be so worthy and explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for keeping time. In the meantime, I will read an apology sent by Minister Vít Rakušan, namely from 19.30 to 21.30 he apologizes for work reasons. And now we are going back to the general debate on the logged in. The next enrollment is Mrs Andrea Babišová, and Mrs Lenka Dražilová will be prepared afterwards. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u98	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to share with you the serious concerns that we are all having about the so-called pension reform that has been put before us by the government. However, we are not implementing any reform here, but only a brutal attack on our seniors, who are the carriers of our heritage, our values and our past. This government has allowed itself to make life more expensive and complicated for those who deserve a peaceful and dignified rest after they have dedicated their lives to work for our country, which at this moment turns their backs on them. There are many current social problems that our seniors are dealing with at this point. My previous speakers, my colleagues have already taken it apart today, I hope to say, all the passages proposed in the quotation marks of reform. So in my speech I would like to really focus on the current social problems that our seniors are dealing with today. There are many, but I would like to highlight only some of them. Above all, they face expensive medicines, expensive food, energy, disrespect for the young generation, the expansion of the intergenerational gap, the abolition of fare discounts, late pension payments, and many and many other problems with which they are now addressing us in the parliamentary offices. So let us look at the main points of the so-called reform that I will begin with the lack of drugs and their unbearable prices. Lack of medicines and their high price: The situation with this deficiency has a significant negative impact on a group of pensioners and seniors. Here are specific points and examples that illustrate the reduction in quality of life as a result of this situation. First of all, I would pierce the lack of access to drugs. Of course, this brings complications and deterioration in their health, when patients with chronic disease, such as diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart disease, must find it hard to find alternatives to medicines that are not for them. Of course, another problem they face is the financial burden. The high price of medicines can impose such a financial burden on pensioners and seniors that they must, of course, take these funds from, for example, food or housing costs. Then, of course, we get into situations that we often witness in pharmacies when the senior pharmacy thinks about which medicine it does not choose from its recipe, because it does not finance it. He's standing there unhappy, abandoned, wondering which medicine he's going to miss the least at the moment. Expensive drugs mean limiting care and prevention, reducing the standard of living, deterioration of health, loss of independence and in the finals, as well as reducing the joys of life for the elderly, to whom, like everyone else, the right to life's joy and the fulfilment of their interests belongs. The lack of drugs and their high prices leads to their limitations to enjoy their activities that fulfill them. For example, a senior with depression who cannot afford antidepressants may suffer from worsening symptoms and reduce the joy of life. Overall, the lack of medicines, their high prices, leads to restrictions on access to the necessary treatment, financial burden, deterioration of health, reduction of standard of living and loss of independence. It is essential for the government to focus on dealing with this situation and to ensure that all citizens, including senior citizens, have access to affordable and affordable health care and medicines. I really ask: Do we really want this responsible group of our societies for our parents and grandparents to learn to take care of our weaker but highly respected fellow citizens? Even in the primary society, the tribe did not treat their elders as we do our seniors. [[17.10 hours]] That's not all. Expensive foods that burden the family budget of our seniors are another shocking result of this so-called reform. Government claims that food has been cheaper for the past few months are as inadequate a claim as the recently granted advice to citizens of the Czech Republic to go shopping for food to Poland. Many have found themselves trapped when they do not have the means to provide basic food for themselves and for their loved ones. How can we call ourselves a civilized society if we cannot provide our seniors with basic life needs? It's been two days on Seznam.cz published a tender article on how our seniors live well and how much they buy food for their increased pensions. I can say that only 20 percent of seniors live this well, 80 percent of seniors don't really live this well, and they don't do such purchases as mentioned in the tender article. Therefore, food price increases have a major impact on a group of pensioners and seniors who often have a fixed budget and are dependent on regular income from pensions. When food prices rise, their limited budget becomes much worse and harder to maintain. Some seniors are dependent on a specific diet or need certain foods because of their health condition. In addition, seniors suffer from various health problems and a balanced diet is needed for them as an approach of quality and nutrients of rich food. Many pensioners and seniors - it is also difficult for them to travel to remote supermarkets or farmers' markets where food is cheaper for them. They have limited mobility and depend on the availability of food in local stores. Here are food prices high, do not have many options to find cheaper alternatives. What about expensive energy? Due to the poor price ceiling, our seniors are getting into a situation of unbearable electricity and heat costs. It's very scandalous. Instead of protecting the most vulnerable citizens of our society, the government exploits them and takes away all hope of a decent and safe life. Expensive energy because of a bad price cap. The situation has a major negative impact on the population, especially on pensions and seniors - high fuel prices, electricity and gas production is a serious burden on their limited budget. High electricity prices, with these problems, the seniors are coming to our parliamentary offices today, where they show us how they jumped backup for electricity. Let me give you an example. Senior, 78 years old, apartment 1+0, has backup for heat 4 400 crowns. At this point, when she moved to a larger apartment because of the fact that she has movement restrictions and moves in a wheelchair, they raised her prices to CZK 9,600 a month - an advance on electricity. With her pension, these prices are just really murderous, and this senior woman comes to me crying later at the MP's office, how she should continue to live. It is essential for the government to take measures to protect these vulnerable population groups from rising energy prices. Market regulation needs to be improved and energy prices should be placed on a fair footing. The government should actively deal with energy companies and implement a reform that will limit their ability to increase prices uncontrollably. The great disorder we are dealing with at the moment is disrespect for the elderly. We don't see any respect. It is unacceptable for our older citizens to be considered second-class, dependent only on themselves. Cancellation of fare discounts, which are important to many seniors, is a clear sign of disrespect and disregard for their needs. Disrespect for the elderly can be seen in the form of discrimination in the provision of health care, and may be seen in their social environment. Pensioners are marginalized and isolated, which has a negative impact on their mental health and feelings of belonging. A lack of social activity and a lack of respect and understanding from younger generations can lead to feelings of loneliness and depression. Another sign of disrespect is the lack of care and dignity of their needs. In many cases, the elderly are denied basic needs that should be made available, such as home assistance, health care or transport services. Disrespect for the elderly also persists in a legal area where their rights and interests are often neglected. This may be a lack of legal protection in cases of abuse, financial fraud or unfair practices due to pension systems. This leads to uncertainty and distrust of seniors in the legal system and in the public institution. It is also important to invest in education and education that would change the public perception of the elderly and their contribution to society. Their rich life experience, wisdom and contribution to society should be recognised and appreciated. There is a need to promote intergenerational dialogue and actively work towards building an inclusive society in which seniors receive full respect and respect. Last but not least, we need to strengthen the social network and ensure decent living conditions - this includes the availability of price housing, quality health care and social life. It is our duty as a society to ensure that the elderly receive this properly. The consequences of these measures are reflected in our work offices. Expensive energy and housing cause an increase in the number of seniors who find themselves in a situation of finding work, even brigades, and helping the state in the form of social benefits and contributions. It's a vicious circle, so this government has made its decisions. We must not forget the division of society that is deepening. Seniors are often opposed to families with children. Instead of trying to balance our society and supporting all its members, there is further fragmentation and distortion of mutual solidarity. We also cannot ignore problems with late retirement payments. Our seniors are stressed out, they don't know when and if they'll ever get their pensions, and in the meantime, they're bombarded with reminders of unpaid health insurance. This is unacceptable and the government should be ashamed of how it treats those who have already done their job. The situation at the employment offices is very trivial. The poorly functioning IT system, the salary undervalued employees, the threat of safety at the employment offices and the necessary paid security, the overloaded system - all of this makes us now have about 100,000 requests to calculate pensions at the Czech Social Security Administration, of which 25 000 are almost beyond the deadline, and while the calculation and payment of the first pension is being made, people are being reminded, and all Mr Jurečka and the Prime Minister were able to do together with the Prime Minister as responsible officials of this government was an additional apology. All our demands, proposals and arguments of the opposition have been swept off the table and remained once again only with lies and hatred against the citizens of our homeland. Of course, we will not forget poverty, which mainly affects single-living pensioners. Sadly, those who should have peace and dignity in their old age must face economic hardships, a lack of resources for basic life needs, often because of the leaving of a partner. Our seniors are not and should not be hostages to this government. They are carriers of our history, values and experience, they deserve our respect and care. It is our duty to fight for their rights and improve their living conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that we resist this unbearable situation. We must defend their interests and fight for fair pensions, affordable medicines, affordable food and reducing energy costs. The proposed constitutional suit of the ANO movement for extraordinary valorisation is a clear attempt to oppose the disadvantage of our current and future seniors. We must not allow this. We should oppose this attempt to oppose and promote fair and dignified treatment of our older fellow citizens. The last thing I want to talk about is canceling fare discounts. Cancellation of fare discounts for a group of pensioners and seniors has a significant negative impact on their mobility, financial situation and overall quality of life. This discount serves as an important support mechanism for those dependent on public transport in old age. The fare and transport costs are a significant part of the budget of many pensioners and seniors who have limited funds. Cancellation of fare discounts means that public transport becomes much less accessible and accessible for them. This may lead to restrictions on their ability to travel, to relocate, causing their isolation and social contacts to be reduced. For many seniors, public transport is a key means of providing basic needs - food purchase, doctor visit or culture. The loss of fare discounts means that many senior citizens will be forced to rethink their expenses and, in some cases, limit the necessary journeys. How should I explain to my constituents and seniors how our citizens should understand when they learn from the press or from other media that in the summer months Ukrainian citizens are going back to their homeland for holidays or visits to their homes and relatives for discounted fare from the state enterprise České dráhy? The cancellation of the fare discount for pensioners and seniors is an unjustified measure which aggravates their life situation and reduces their possibilities. [[17.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we stand against the division of society, against financial disruption and disrespect for our older citizens. We need to stand up for them and show that they're important to us. There is a large distribution in society between a group of pensioners and seniors, on the one hand, and families with children on the other. It has a serious negative impact on both of these population groups. Increasing the cost of living, including food, housing, health care, creates economic pressure on families with children. These often face an increase in the cost of nutrition, clothing, education and health care for their offspring. With this cost increase, families can also cope with financial stress and difficult to maintain a dignified standard of living. On the other hand, pensioners and seniors often have fixed pensions and limited income. Increasing the cost of basic life needs creates a great burden for them. Seniors who are already a vulnerable group may be made more difficult to access the necessary needs and may lead to a deterioration in their living conditions. The division of society between families with children and seniors thus contributes to the deepening of economic and social inequalities. This situation is unsustainable and creates tensions between the two groups of these people. Society should aim for solidarity and mutual support between generations rather than conflict and hostility. We must not ignore the fact that our society is measured not only by our gross domestic product but also by the way we treat our most vulnerable members. It is time for us to take responsibility and ensure that our seniors are well deserved peace and security. It is unfair and unethical that the government supports its resources and resources and technical equipment, including financial support for the conflict of war in Ukraine, taking insufficient account of the needs and living conditions of pensioners and seniors. The financing and support of the war in Ukraine at the expense of the needs of the population, especially the elderly, shows the wrong distribution of funds and the lack of political will to address the real needs and problems of the population. It is essential for the government to rethink its priorities and focus on a decent life for all citizens. The responsible distribution of funds, the promotion of social justice and the care of vulnerable groups of people should be a fundamental principle of our government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to oppose this inequality, against the attack on our seniors. We must fight together for transparency and fair decisions, and I call on the government to engage in constructive dialogue and to listen to the voices of the opposition and of the citizens. It is our duty to defend the interests of our society and to ensure that every citizen, regardless of age, has a decent life. Setting new parameters for early retirement and reducing pension valorisation take the assurance that our current and future pensioners will live to see them in health and that they will have a financial coverage of high cost of living, for which we do not see any attempt by this government to reduce them at the moment. Together we can achieve change and ensure that the seniors live in the environment they deserve. Thank you for your attention, and I believe that we will succeed with our joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, Madame. In the meantime, Mr Josef Kott's apology came up, apologizing from 16:30 to 17:00 for work reasons. And with a point of fact, Mrs Nina Nováková will speak. Please, your space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have three brief comments on Mrs Babišová's speech. The first one is: I've mentioned it here several times: seniors are no package. They're not all the same. It is by this rhetoric that we essentially impose on them that they are helpless victims of some political play. Second comment: there was repeatedly a pause over the cancellation of discounts on travel, on fare. Because I hold regular round tables, which I call senior currently and where I invite representatives of the Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic, we discussed this twice on the round table and the opinion of the Council of Seniors of the Czech Republic is: For us, it is more important that we keep discounts on fare for students. So it wasn't any sort of violent reaction from the elderly, we should also have a little chat with the seniors, I'm one of them. And then I'd also like to make a note. It's always said here that we're putting families with children against seniors, but I'm reading what the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs says. Please, they're not just seniors, they're families with children, and I don't think that's the division of society, they're the merger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u101	Thank you for keeping time and we are returning to properly logged in. Mrs Lenka Dražilová and Mr Aleš Juchelka can also be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, dear colleagues. So just a reaction to my colleague Nováková: I would say that she really isn't a senior when you said that you also consider yourself a senior, so I guess the income is completely different. I'd like to say that because I think that's how we all feel about it, that's how we all start. What the government is up to is really not a pension reform, it's just some parametric change in pensions, and we might as well call it austerity pensions. Let's face it, this pension package is only made to fill the state budget. It's a restriction on seniors, people who can't actively defend themselves like other groups of people who were 30, 40 in 1989, and now they're retired. Generations of people to whom we certainly owe one of the best transitions from socialist to market economy, and these people once again hear that they live above their means. Sadly, the whole debate on so-called pension reform is not rational from the government, but it is based on impressions. The claim that the pension system would fail without this intervention is certainly terrifying for citizens and there is no hard evidence for this claim. He mentioned it here already, a colleague of Radim Fiala. On the contrary, according to the National Budget Board report of 2022, the share of old-age pensions in gross domestic product is 7.7 % and in the most difficult period after 2058 will be 11.5 %. But only a few years later, this share will fall again, estimated at 10.5% of GDP. And this clearly shows that pensions alone will probably not be the kind of thing that could disrupt public finances. And do you know what other countries are giving a share of GDP? For example, Italy 15,9 %, France 13,6 %, Austria 13 %, Poland 10,6, Germany 10,2, Hungary 8,5. Czech Republic, as has already been said, 7.7 %. [[17.30 hours]] The argument about the unsustainable pension system is equally false. In fact, it is not about unsustainableness, but only about the unwillingness of this government to participate in the pension system. Just as the government takes money from the pension system at a time when it's in surplus, so they just have to return it at a time when it's negative. That's not a big deal, because the pension system is just part of public finances. I'm sure we can agree on that, and it's already been said here that an advanced society can be seen by how it cares about its seniors. And it is strange that it is the Minister of KDU who is moving us eastward. In fact, the only thing he says about the system's unsustainableness is that things are more important to them in the state budget than the decent life of seniors. And since I am already in the criticism of this government and the Minister, I would like to say that his argument that senior citizens cannot complain - you can see that the article two days ago is very interesting to all of us - because today the average pension is over CZK 20,000, so I would say that he is a proud aspirant of the price of disdain. Where did the Minister get the right to decide what is a lot and what is not enough? Honestly, this might still be possible, but what I really blame this government for is that it brings parametric changes, which, as I have already mentioned, really have only one goal, and that is to save spending in the state budget. Nothing else. If the Minister or anyone in the government were serious about pension reform, they would have to ask themselves the basic question: What standard of living does the state want to guarantee to seniors following the amount of their social security payments and other taxes that they will then pay during their active life? And the State should also answer the question of how much GDP we want to provide for pensioners, and then the question is whether we will implement this through an ongoing pension system, a state-run investment fund or some form of private insurance. However, the Minister did not ask himself this fundamental question. He took it backwards: How much money can be saved on seniors so that we can maintain our friendship in the coalition and our budget does not end up a complete disaster? It is unforgivable what atmosphere spreads in society - the young against the old. We should never have let that happen. It is wrong that this government and its Members constantly suggest with their statements that the seniors are actually something very expensive for our state. How else are you going to explain to the ministers that pensions are disproportionately burdened with the state budget? How else is a pensioner supposed to perceive similar expressions than he is, in fact, who is burdening the pension system? And I remind you that 86 percent of Czech seniors are entirely dependent on the pension system. They have no savings in the bank, and their sin is only that they trusted the Czech social system and that no government will want to fundamentally restrict it. It will affect those who soon retire and do not have time to prepare for these changes. That's what we're all talking about here - people who have worked and carried out social security all their lives. By chance, the government intends to raise retirement over 65 years. However, we know from the data that the average length of health is 61.6 years. And what does that mean in practice? The last years of work have been accompanied by illness and sick leave for a number of employees before retirement. This is also what causes both the lower foundations for calculating pensions and more frequent retirements. And now for the crucial question. Is the absence of accounting for this fact the result of sloppyness or, on the contrary, the calculation of this government? I leave aside the fact that for many people there will be a sickness-related pension, and it will certainly not be what most of us dream of, and it will be a well-deserved rest. In fact, the question of pension reform is also a question of power. It is about whether the power associated with the funds managed by the system will remain in the hands of the democratic state or find itself in the hands of financial institutions. And, of course, being able to answer that question will also be crucial. And one more thing I'd like to point out. In recent years, the number of Čech who reached retirement age has started to increase and yet they have remained without retirement. According to the Czech Social Security Administration, the number of rejected pension applications is around 5 000 annually, which means roughly every twenty-year new pensioner, and these people will be increasing. The Czech Republic has one of the strictest conditions in Europe as regards entitlement to an old-age pension. We all realized until now that these conditions are very strict. All you have to do in life is have some unexpected complications during your studies, be unemployed or sick for a long time, and you can easily get into a position where you will miss years of work or insurance will be missed, and then you simply will not reach an old-age pension. We're not going down this line, how we've all been clear all along and how we've all declared it. This government and its Members are very fond of boasting that they have courage. This is often said by both the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of the Interior or Prime Minister Fiala. Unfortunately, if they're gonna show it, it's not exactly that obvious. If they had real courage, they would say things the way they really are, but that's not what's happening. I didn't hear either of them say that he would find the strength to stand in front of the media and tell the current 50s that they wouldn't retire at the age of 65, as they promised recently, but later. But most importantly, if they had the courage, they'd tell the same people that for what they're doing, they'd do more and work longer, this government would take away at least CZK 3,000 from their retirement. So it can easily be that today's 50s will have the same CZK 20,000 as their parents now have. If you have the guts to say that, because this is simply the essence of your proposal! Everything else is just lovely talk for the last fans of this government party. And just to be clear, she's not the great mistrust of the cabinet of Petr Fiala's government because you're making some major reforms, and we're really hearing it from those people who come to us, but because you're not telling the truth and you're being suspicious. Your entire reform is nothing but punishment for generations of children born in the late 1960s and early 1970s. You decided to punish the generation of the so-called Husákův children, the one who experienced the reverends of real socialism and in the 1990s turned the socialist economy into a market economy. You are punishing people who have heard promises from your party colleagues in the 1990s that if they are now humbled, then they will be better off. They won't! You are punishing a generation that you owe to the economy for working and having decent tax revenue just because there is an impact on the cost of the pension system. But anyone who has ever seen a population curve knows that after population strong years comes the weaker ones again. So from the logic of the matter I ask, then we'll raise the pensions again when they retire in popularly weaker years? After all, the National Budget Board's analysis also highlights this fact, namely that pension claims continue to grow and fall. [[17.40 hours]] My next question, which follows, is whether the Minister has an analysis that disproves, for example, Dan Hůle, that the reduction of pensions will merely spill the requirements of the pension system to social assistance. What's it gonna be? Will there really be a concern that you will reduce pensions, but at the same time you will have to raise budgets for social benefits? If so, then this is an accurate example of what you mean by reducing the state officials' agenda. And I just add that if you have such an analysis, you should publish it, because even though I'm on this subject, I have not seen any similar study from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs so far. Just as this office has so far been hiding the results of public opinion research on this subject, for which the Ministry has paid millions of crowns from public budgets. There are more comments on the parametric changes in the pension scheme. Most of them have been said here, or my colleagues will still say them here. Finally, I would like to repeat what the government coalition is afraid to say out loud. After this coalition has taken the money that the current pensioners were entitled to, it is going to take the money from the future. The generation of people born in the 1970s will only come by alibis and the desire to power this government by thousands of crowns a month, in a situation where they will work even when they are likely to be sick. I'm just pointing out that we're talking about old and most sick people who won't be able to increase their income by working. And finally, I'm going to read you a letter that I think is telling you everything that came to me as a Member of the South Moravian Region. I quote literally: "Dear Member, before the planned second reading of the Government Bill on Changes to Pension Insurance, I am addressing you with consideration for the proposed effectiveness of these changes. I also suggest that I, and above all my husband, have a significant impact on these changes. I was born in 1965 and my husband in 1963. I'm trying to understand the proposed modifications. However, I would say that they should not start to pay until they are approximately three to five years late. This will mainly affect citizens who have retired for several years, even though they have worked their whole lives and honestly carried out social insurance. The younger ones should then have time to prepare for changes in some way, for example, to end up as a self-employed person and enter into an employment relationship, to start putting aside more in the third pillar and so on. That's how negative changes hit us literally from day to day. Moreover, there is still immense uncertainty about what changes are really going to be and how they will affect us. After all, every week there will be something new in the media in connection with various government statements. It's not easy to know, and there's no way to plan your own future. My husband had to leave his long-term job two years ago because his health didn't allow him to carry out his work so far. He was born in October, so at the end of June this year he applied to the Czech Social Security Administration for an early retirement pension. The proposed effectiveness of the changes is in pension insurance on 1 September 2023. I find it extremely unfair that there will be a change in the rules under which it will be discussed at the time of the application. We've been working on something for two years, we've made financial transactions, considering my husband's retirement this year, and now you're putting us in a whole new situation from day to day. This, too, I think, is the main reason why the current government was criticized." I'm still quoting. "We try to be understanding and to some extent patient, but we want to know and know clear arguments that will affect our life in the future. The motivation of the government is clear, avoiding early retirement at all costs. In the worst situation, there are now those entitled to a proper pension in 2025, 2026 and 2027. These planned changes will be affected significantly negatively if they wish to benefit from early retirement in the foreseeable future. The sharp divide, when one day pays something and the next day something else and significantly worse, is extremely wrong. I'm most keenly aware that the rules here are changing for people who are entitled to early retirement in a few months. That's unprecedented. In decades' time, no one had dared to extend the entitlement to an old-age pension - even an early retirement pension - only a year in advance. In addition, we also have the disadvantage of calculating early pensions. There is almost no delay, not even for a mere year. Here is the question: If the pension account is negative - writes the lady - "how are those who want to retire early in the fall or next year? It's not their fault. Properly planned changes, such as early retirement only three years in advance instead of the current five years, should not start to apply for a few years. If you have finished my consideration to the end, thank you very much for your attention and I believe that you will take all this into account in the House's discussions." And Mrs. Kyzlinková from Brno signed her name. And I'm going to conclude completely, when we're already quoting what anyone's ever said today, I'm going to say one memorable sentence right here in connection with the letter I just read: It's not possible to change the rules in the middle of the game. Do you know who said that? In connection with the discussion of the increase in parental contribution to the press in January 2020, Marek said Výborný, then chief of folklore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u103	Thank you, Madame. With a point of fact... it doesn't apply factually, so I'm erasing you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, another duly logged in, and this is Mr. Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't be too long. I would very much like to be able to present to the House my three amendments, which we have prepared together with other colleagues from the Committee on Social Policy. Of course, this is what second reading is intended for. My colleague Lenka Dražilová has said a lot of things, big truths, she's been talking to me completely, so I'm going to modify it a little bit, of course, so I don't repeat myself. Senior is an older man, and in a certain society he is considered the oldest man, very respected. Do we really appreciate all of our seniors at the moment, those who have actually historically built some foundations of our society here? If we look at age as a phenomenon, then we can divide it into an early age, these are all those who have between 60 and 74 years of age, these are the ones who are actually at the beginning I would say my old age, my seniority. Then we have true old age, that's until 89, until the older person experiences it this way, and the longevity that we've been talking about for a long time is for all seniors up to the 90th year of life. Of course, we all know, and some of us have experience, because it sits between us that retirement is a really big, big change in a person's life. His contact with people, with his coworkers, is limited, of course, by the long-term thinking of what he will do as a senior, and he plans to do, of course, whether or not he will retire prematurely. And at this point, what's most troubling me about this change right here, this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, is that the changes will also affect those who retire in a year or decide to retire early in ten months until a year. And my colleague, Lenka Dražilová, here at the moment, told us that some in our industrial state simply can no longer, and it has some attributes that I would say are important to them. They will take care of their mate or simply need to rest because they can no longer. [[17.50 hours]] I miss the whole pension reform, B, if we're to talk about it as reform, because this is just the one grade that really aims to fill the state budget through seniors, and that's how we work in the employment offices with the very seniority. This means that a person is 62 years old, he can't really go on, so as part of the retraining, the employment office may offer him a lighter position, something that he can handle, something that he can do by the age of 65 even as a surviving senior. Here, this B, this education, the retraining, I would say some stage of life in this person's life, I really miss it, because we're only going after the Excel tables, after how to save money on old-age pensions. I've been told by a lot of colleagues that this isn't about pension reform. I also pointed out in factual notes that the pension reform is really talking about all the pillars that pension reform is supposed to have, about the first, second, third pillar, or, if you want, zero, first and second, and to see it in some context, from some distance, in some context, it is necessary to prepare just all three pillars at once to just see it, and not to cut off the proper, extraordinary valorisation and early pensions. Here, what we are doing, what we are facing, here in front of this press, does not solve the main problem, it merely shifts it in time, and the government has simply said by this change to all those who are in the middle generation and even in the younger one, who clearly hope that some pension reform may be that at the moment it only concerns their parents or grandparents. What bothers me next is that in the case of extraordinary valuations, which here turn into a so-called quasisocial benefit, we actually give a message to society that pensioners come to the offices of work with their hands stretched out and want some kind of social benefit. It's just not like that. This is the entitlement component where we calculate our old-age pension by the length of our working time, by the number of children, how long we studied, how much income we had, and so on. It is a very complex calculation, very individual and this claim amount in the context of solidarity should indeed be dignified, it should be predictable and it should be transparent, which also does not allow, because, as I say, those who transparently expected something in their lives that they would want to do in the coming months, in the coming years, so it has just been hacked by this amendment in their old age, because it changes, as my honourable colleague Lenka Dražilová said, by your means, the rules in the middle of the game. There's a lot of nonsense about pensions, for example, a narrative that the government coalition is trying to put in our heads that the pensions are actually on debt. It's just not like that. It's not true. If we want to take care of our seniors, our moms and dads, our grandmothers and grandfathers, because at this point we can see that we have two generations of retirement that we, as a generation of Husákův's children, are earning, we must not let this return into society at all, because society is dividing it. We see it on social networks, we see it at discussions where, in fact, younger people who can't even imagine going into retirement at some point in the future, call them seniors, they're de facto cutting off their plates. I'm very particular about this here, and I don't really want us to divide society in this way in terms of social reconciliation. As for the next, I would say narativ, most of the promised changes in pension insurance alone under the so-called recovery package, in which there is also the so-called pension reform, are only in the preparation phase. We've learned here that it's not until the first half of next year, so in that case I don't understand why we're rushing to parameters of early pensions and extraordinary and proper valorizations... [[Mr Juchelka turns to the President.]] Maybe I'll ask for peace here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u105	I'd ask you to calm down, but in the meantime, it's already here. Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u106	... because the House press number 458, which we actually have here at the moment, is really only dealing with the parametric changes. I understand why that is, of course, and I will explain it immediately. This is because, in September, further valorisation could threaten due to high inflation. It's because of that from 1. 1. we would have to take the extraordinary into account in proper valuation. This is because we want to change the rules in the middle of the game in the calculation of extraordinary valorisation, and we have a fundamental disagreement with that, because the law that triggers extraordinary valorisation through high inflation is really here once every 15 years and it has its reasons, because a lot of seniors can't find second and third jobs, and in short, inflation has been supplemented in this way within the framework of social reconciliation. As far as the amendments themselves are concerned, before I can get to the financing itself. We have tabled several amendments as a committee on social policy of the YES movement, all its members. Of course, we want proper valorisation to be given back as set up by the government of Andrej Babiš, half the real wages and all inflation. It may seem that it is actually a marginality, because real wages have fallen by up to 8 percent at the moment, and that for several years, this mechanism will not actually be triggered by proper valorisations. However, in the future, when we hope not to have inflation here anymore and there will be an economic boom, the standard of living of all those who are actively earning employees and so on, just from the income of old-age pensioners, and then we will have to chase it through some extraordinary items, for example, with proper valorisations, some bonus. I think it's more transparent and predictable that we know what the seniors can count on to leave it halfway through real wages and inflation. This concerns proper valuations. Of course, we don't want it to be a quasisocial dose for the extraordinary ones. That is the other amendment. And then in early retirement, we have a double penalty. We're changing the penalty calculation by years by 0.9, 1.2 and 1,5 percent depending on when a person goes into early retirement, the government is proposing 1.5 percent. This changes the amendment to which my honored colleague Jana Hanzlíková will reach and which will certainly explain it here. And the second problem that this third amendment solves is that the second penalty that is there is that the percentage part of pensions will not be compared to the age of 65. It is unfair - if we want to have fair pensions here, it is unfair that once we pay 1.5 percent of our old-age pensions, we will be penalized for the second time by not valorizing if we need 63, 64, more of that pension. I think, on the other hand, after the first penalization, we should look at the old agers as well as the ones who really do as everyone else, and we shouldn't be doing two categories of pensioners here. The ongoing pension system, I said it here, and the minister disagrees, it's really balanced. Yes, in some years it was negative, maybe it accumulated between CZK 330 billion and CZK 400 billion, but of course over time, and we don't know what time period it was, maybe it's in 20 years, 30 years, I don't know, in x years we can make up this number de facto and put it here according to how many years we count. However, the facts in recent years are clear. The pension system was balanced, and during the reign of Andrej Babiš it was even twice surplus. Then he was in a deficit on a covid year. and, of course, at this point in the deficit, it is precisely because extraordinary valorisation has paid off, but the ongoing pension system itself works as a backbone and I hope it will continue to work. [[18.00 hours]] Demography is clear, of course we all agree that we do not have children, because we have 10,000 less children year on year. I also agree that parenting should be rewarded, and I suppose we have no problem with that at all. But we really have a big disagreement with this amendment of the law, which changes these three parameters right here in early retirement, extraordinary and proper valuations. In the future, with regard to the first half of next year, if the changes come, for example, from the Ministry of Finance within pensions, there, of course, we are open, we will certainly discuss this internally. And I have, of course, a question that my colleague Jana Vildumetzová has already asked about the Minister, and that is why we have the effectiveness of the law since 1. 9. and how, because it certainly has calculated, if there should be a re-payment of extraordinary valorisation here, how will the senior's pension change financially if we count the extraordinary valorization and if we count the extraordinary valorization after the new one, that means after this amendment here, what is the difference actually with some amount that the minister certainly has calculated, how much will he actually get thanks to this amendment here, the senior less. I know that the Minister here says some number of CZK 320 billion that it will be for the future. I also know that, for example, we have GDP, we are really more in the second half of the table when it comes to retirement pensions for gross domestic product, and on average, of course, we are below the European Union average. It spends much more on pensions from various sources than it does in the Czech Republic. That's why I don't like it when we... or we don't just scare people that they won't be on retirement pensions in the future. It's okay to do something about it. Every government had it in some way. I am glad that Minister Jurečka is more action and action than his predecessors, for example. However, as I say, it has no system at this time, no context, no context. Only now what we are doing is that we are at the second reading of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which aims to ensure that current old-age pensioners participate in the state budget deficit, which we do not see in other departments at the moment. We don't know how much to save on defense, on education, on the inside, on local development, but we do know how much to save on seniors at MPSV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and you made some factual remarks. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Romana Fischerová - who made a mistake, so I would like to ask Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, then Mr Karel Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u108	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, for my factual answer now again to what Mr Aleš Juchelka said here, because he was not telling the truth, he was telling a lie. [[I'll take it?]] I've been pointing that out an hour ago. Now I've sent it directly to WhatsApp to keep it permanently. From 1996 to 2022, the total deficit of the pension scheme is less CZK 455.9 billion, only seven years in surplus. If you want it in numbers, in surplus was in 1996 - 4.4 billion, deficit subsequently 1997 minus 6.5 billion, 1998 was 12,5 billion, 1999 minus 19.4 billion, 2000 - 19.7 billion, 2001 - 18,5 billion deficit, 2002 - 18,9, 2003 - 19,9, 2004 is the second year in plus 8.3, 2005 is the third year in plus 6.6, then 2006 minus 0,9 billion, 2007 still in surplus 9.9 billion, then 2008 - 2.6 billion and then 2009 minus 36.8 billion, 2010 minus 35.6 and this is how we continue until 2022 when minus 455.9 is the accumulated deficit. This year there is an estimated around 80 billion crowns deficit and in all subsequent years until 2050 there is a planned deficit. It sounds like somebody's an asshole - I don't know who's an asshole, but I'm just saying specific numbers, facts. From 1996 to this year, or last year, this is just the way it is. So please, my colleague Juchelka, never to say that this system is plus minus even, if nearly half a trillion crowns is plus minus even, I don't know what you were doing in matrices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u109	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. I will ask Mr Karel Haas, and then Mr Juchelka, in fact, again. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't see what the minister was gonna do, so I can just refill it. On the website of the Ministry of Finance, because it is the duty of the Ministry of Finance to register data from the pension system separately, even if they are part of the state budget, is normally in the chapter of the State Budget, the management of the pension account, or are publicly available data. So I haven't taken them out since 1996, I've pulled them out since 2000 every year, and I'm just going to say it in a different way than the Minister said. For 23 years from 2000 to 2022, for 23 years, the six-fold positive balance of the pension system in the sum plus CZK 62,4 billion, 17-fold negative balance in the sum of CZK 490.4 billion, the difference is the accumulated minus CZK 428 billion. That means, I think, I'm not gonna be so steep that I'm telling a lie here or not really, I think that pointing to sustainability or alleged sustainability of the pension system, if we didn't come up with really significant changes in its parameters, at least that information is incorrect and incorrect to me. That's a note from me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and then Mr Hendrych will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u112	Thank you so much for the chart. Thank you, of course, both to the Minister of KDU-ČSL and to Mr Haas of ODS. So if that accumulation was created there, and now you're suddenly so terribly unhappy about it in those x years, you've been in the government several times, and you could have done something about it. The fact that you're doing this at this point, of course, and you're making excuses for the fact that cumulation has taken place over the course of these years, I understand, of course, but I have other numbers for you. From 2010 to 2002, our state gave on average GDP on pensions below average in terms of the European Union, and it has endured this state here financially even during the years that you have been talking about here at the moment. [[2022?]] It was about 8.5%, in 2022 it was even 7.82 percent, when it increased with extraordinary valorizations, of course, but not by much, it's something below 9 percent. So our state has always taken care of old-age pensioners. Yes, he gave it from other sources, just like other states throughout Europe are doing, and I believe that now we are saying: We are making these parametric changes here because in x years this deficit has accumulated here to 450 billion crowns, which, of course, have been added from other sources, because we have some social reconciliation here and we want it, so I think it's unfair and that you're just unnecessarily confusing your heads with large numbers that are already behind us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u113	Thank you and please Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, and above all, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, you just got off here, accusing our shadowy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Aleš Juchelka, who asked you the same question. I was listening today to how constructive the debate would be going on here. [[18.10 hours]] I asked you very politely about an hour ago whether you could explain to me the individual effectiveness of the extraordinary, proper valorisation of early pensions and how this would affect me, and why, therefore, to convince me if it was for the reason that it would affect me that, if any, the extraordinary valorisation to which the seniors are entitled, so if that's the reason why you're in such a hurry and therefore shorten the deadlines. So I'm calling you again if you could explain the individual effectiveness of the extraordinary and proper valorisation. She's the one I care about the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. I will ask Mr Igor Hendrych, then President Schillerová will be prepared, then Mr Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I've done this on such short notice to calculate the amount that the minister here has told me how much it's accumulated over the 27 years. I've split 27 years, and I've gotten really rough like this, like, 16,6 billion crowns a year in a hurry. Yes, the system is deficit, I'm not denying it, but it's an average government-funded surcharge of over 16 billion. This is one year EET for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Haas. In the meantime, the decision-making Madam President has been annulled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u118	Quick answer to colleague Juchelek. One: I was merely stating the figures because, Mr colleague, through Mr President, you have referred to the fact that the pension account is long-term sustainable under the current circumstances. So I don't think the true objective numbers traceable on the Ministry of Finance's website - that's why I've listed the numbers - confirm that. For B, it is important to say that the changes that we are discussing today are not primarily due to the problems in which the pension system is now in the past. We are all making these changes because we know what the demographic development of the Czech Republic is. This means that the current long-term deficit pension account is already deficitd at some ratio roughly - I apologize for rounding it up - two to one, two working people or citizens of the Czech Republic per pensioner. We well know that the ratio will rotate to a ratio of roughly one to one in view of demographic developments, given current working years, which are really popularly strong. Well, we know where it says that. These are hard data of the Czech Statistical Office, Czech demographic development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. Now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, then Mr. Juchelka. We're still in the factual notes regime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. A responsible politician can't use in the argument that the average in 23 years is 16 billion crowns of that deficit. We are talking about what we see today as a hard reality in 2023 and what a hard reality will be in the years to come, when the deficit will grow completely from 80 billion crowns a year to gradually more than minus 370 billion crowns a year. That's hard data. It doesn't make any sense in this debate to argue with some averages over the last 23 years. That's what's going on right now. We're making changes about the future, that's what we're debating here. I just want to point out, when there were various remarks in the previous hour about how we didn't look at the situation of our seniors, as well as the fact that education was introduced... I will just point out that I proposed this training here with KDU-ČSL colleagues three times overall in the last parliamentary term, and three times it was rejected by the then government coalition of the ANO and ČSSD movement. Only for the fourth time, because it was a proposal that was then tabled after the debates that we had, Roman Sklenák, managed to enforce the proposal. This proposal, for example, was particularly socially supported by women who raised children, with low pensions, and significantly improved the situation for them as of 1 January. This needs to be one of the measures that, after long years, has brought a really important qualitative change to the lives of these people, these women, especially the women who raised us, to the current productive generation, so I would like that to be heard here in the debate as well. The changes that we are proposing here, which will come with a large pension reform, are changes that lead to the system being stable, sustainable and providing decent pensions in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. Mr Juchelka, so far the final point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u122	Thank you very much. I will speak both to the Minister and to Mr Haas, through you. If we are to address demographic developments in some way, we can do this in several ways. We can deal with this with some kind of pro-family policy, but of course, everyone is free to decide whether or not they want to have the baby and how many children they want to have. Here we see that we are actually having fewer and fewer children. Then we can deal with the ongoing pension system by increasing taxes and by paying more in order to have it sustainable. And thirdly, as you will learn from various professional publications, you will give some benefits here and support the so-called migration to the Czech Republic so that there are economically active people who will contribute to the ongoing pension system. That's all there is to it. Thus, no pension reform will make these changes unless it makes a system, for example, that we have to - and this is not at all here in the House - save our pension for the future within the third pillar. As for the finances, we can't accumulate any kind of pension loss here for, like, 30 years. It's an ongoing retirement system, and it's going into something, and there's going to be something coming out of it all the time. So if you want the ongoing system to be sustainable, of course, you can do it in several ways as a government, for example, to start economic growth, which you can't make more money in the pension scheme, and of course other things. But now you're only dealing with parameters for current pensioners, for current pensioners!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Mr Igor Hendrych came forward with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u124	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I might have an incentive for the Minister, too. We have recent data that last year the pension deficit was CZK 21.5 billion and this year is expected to be CZK 80 billion. I do not want to contradict this, but it is a relatively significant difference of approximately 60 billion crowns, which will, of course, be shown at the end of the year. If the Department of Labour has any more accurate analysis, what exactly is it, whether it is extraordinary valuations, or is it because the Ministry itself, in some way, urged early pensioners last autumn to make an application by the end of the year to have a higher pension, as I have already announced in this previous factual remark, or what does it consist of? The 60 billion crowns difference between 2022 and 2023 is significant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u125	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Deputy Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to the speech by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who says here he is presenting a proposal that will provide decent pensions for our seniors. I would like to remind him that in January, before the presidential elections in the media, he said that there is no way he was going to go into extraordinary valorisation, because it would be contrary to the law that it would be unconstitutional. Then, of course, right after the presidential election, he came up with this proposal. I would like to say that for the first time we have a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs who does not fight at this resort for his seniors and goes against them. I must also say that you still haven't answered my question, Minister. When I look, it says here that this law takes effect on the first day of the calendar month following the day of its publication. Always - and there is a regulation for this - should be effective either from 1 January or from 1 July. It's obvious that you probably have reasons why you don't want to answer me as part of an extraordinary and proper valorisation. You know, I take this as very unfair, even because we took the extraordinary valorisation of seniors just in the first half of this year, when a senior who receives about 20,000 pensions - and I would like to say that I have, for example, a colleague who has worked in education for many years and has not reached this level of retirement of 20,000 yet - so I have to say that they have actually lost almost 700 crowns in extraordinary valorisation and now it will come again. [[18.20 hours]] But when we asked you and put forward, for example, a freeze on politicians' salaries, this year did not happen and maybe it will take place next year, but that is the question. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u127	děkovat you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u128	Thank you. It is a pity that we are not listening to each other, or perhaps the fellow Member was not here when I spoke at the outset. I was talking about the situation that occurred last year, when it happened that thanks to extraordinary valuations there was a really very specific situation, which actually gave unfair advantage to those who could apply for early retirement last year, to all who did not have that option in the past and would not have it in the future. And you answered that, too, and I'm glad you're reading the explanatory notes and reading the specific bill proposal for what the proposed effectiveness is. It's clearly written in the law. You said it yourself, you answered it yourself, I think it's obvious. And there is no legislation that says that the effectiveness of laws can be set only from 1 January or 1 January. 7. When you look at the many laws you have passed here as a coalition MP in the last parliamentary term, you have passed many laws from effectiveness that has not been since 1 January or 1 January. 7.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u129	Thank you, please, Mr Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Once again, Mr. Secretary, because I volunteered before him, and I didn't know he was gonna put it that way. I don't think efficiency is a secret. Here, the effectiveness of the law creates a kind of secret. Perhaps also for the public: efficiency is essentially proposed by the law double. First, for everything else that is in the law, except for the necessary insurance period for early retirement, that's the change of 35 to 40 years, so everything else is the first day of the calendar month following the declaration of the law. For one thing, and this is precisely an increase in the required insurance period for early retirement entitlement, 35 to 40, is for technical reasons, which are explained in the explanatory memorandum, on the 13th day of the calendar month following the declaration of the law. This is a clear response to effectiveness, Article 3 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) III draft law. Secondly, I believe that the lawyers in this hall will confirm my words that the Act on the Collection of Laws actually assumes the primary acquisition of law in the Czech legal system on 1 July and 1 January, but the relevant paragraph of the Act on the Collection of Laws clearly states that it is not a dogma and that in justified cases, which, of course, are due to the justification of the law, in the explanatory memorandum again clearly described, there is, of course, the possibility of obtaining effect on data other than those two fixed dates, so the draft law and the article on its effectiveness are completely in accordance with the Act on the Collection of Laws. And maybe the third answer, that's what I'm adding under the transitional provisions, and that's what's necessary, that's what I'm talking about. II, they have a total of six points, it is necessary to read in accordance with or in the context of Art. III on effectiveness is in brief - I do not have the time space anymore - clearly suggested that the claims that arise before the law becomes effective, whether they are early pensions, the adjustment of current pensions and so on, will be assessed according to the current regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Mr Haas, through Mr President. I mean, yes, I'm sure you're right that it can be, it doesn't have to be January 1st, July 1st. Those cases have happened in the past term, I agree with that. But I just feel at this point, and I think that if the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and I think he should have responded to that much earlier about the early pensions, okay? And if you had brought this proposal in my opinion, even in the so-called '90s, in agreement with all the coalition and opposition parties, I think the agreement would have been. I find it very unfair that you're proposing that this should apply immediately to the extraordinary and proper valorisations. I think that the validity and effectiveness should not be there until January 1, 2024. I think that would be fair even in the context of the fact that, in the consolidation package, you are finally presenting the so-called austerity of politicians' salaries, so it will also be from 1 January 2024. I think that since you've already deprived the seniors of extraordinary valorisation in the first half of the year, I don't see any reason why the efficiency shouldn't be exactly the same for extraordinary and proper valuations as for wage freezes. Let's see what we can find out. I don't think the proposal is perfect anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u133	Thank you. Mr. Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u134	I believe my final de facto here about the exchange of views, quite right and legitimate. I may even be able to specify the transitional provisions, because I would not like the public to be intimidated by the need to change some of the claims to which it will be entitled before the law is effective. Point 1 of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: II transitional provisions, I will always translate it simply into human language: Claims for pensions incurred prior to the entry into force of a law which has not been finalised shall be assessed according to the current regulation. Point 2, the conversion of early retirement pensions granted under current regulations, although this proposal, of course, tightens the conversion, shall be assessed according to the previous adjustment. In other words, people who receive early retirement today, until they are entitled to a proper old-age pension, will not be affected by the parametric tightening up. Item 3, very helpful step: the percentage of pensions granted throughout 2023 - because we will have three legal regulations this year, one by 31. 5, one until the date of entry into force of the present law and one until 31. 12. - for the year 2023, the percentages of pensions will be calculated according to the same parameters for all pensions granted in 2023 regardless of the three time intervals that we have in the Czech legal system in 2023. Point 4 of the transitional provision lays down clear rules, time rules and time limits for the decisive periods for extraordinary valuations from the point of view of the beginning of the relevant price assessment period for 2023, for 2024 and for 2025, graduated either on February 2023, August 2023, or on September 2023. The exclusion of early retirement increases will again apply - that is, point 5 - except for pensions granted after the entry into force of this law. This means that the exclusion of early retirement increases will not affect people already granted early retirement. I believe that this explanation is sufficient.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u135	I gave you a few seconds because you were already in the finals, and I'd like to ask Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u136	I thank my colleague Haas for the list, let's say the translation in human language. I will just add: in fact and practically this year, we do not expect that the conditions for extraordinary valorisation will be fulfilled yet again, so we are only talking realisticly about the proper valorisation of 2024 on 1 January. In view of the fact that someone has already pointed out that real wage growth will not occur at least in the next two or three years, even the change that will now be adopted to calculate the increase in pensions from 1 January 2024, will have no real impact. So the change will occur when real wages rise and the loss of real wages from 2022 and 2023, which we expect to occur in roughly two, three, maybe four years, is deducted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Since there is no factual point, we can go back to the general debate and ask another duly signed-up Mrs Hanzlíková. Mr. Hendrych will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor on the proposal under discussion, where I will then, in the end, allow myself to justify the amendment which I, together with my colleagues in the Committee on Social Policy, submit. I consider it very important at the outset to recall in what situation people in the Czech Republic, i.e. seniors, people with disabilities who receive a disability pension and older people in their pre-retirement age, today we are discussing government-designed changes in the pension system, which, according to the government, should be pension reform. But they really are not, because pension reform must be comprehensive and thoughtful and should never lead to significant reductions in the standard of living of pensioners and injustices between generations and between individual people who retire at different times. They must have relevant analyses on the basis of which it is known how significantly negative changes will manifest themselves in practice and affect the quality of people's lives. It must be discussed by experts and experts from various fields, not only economic but also sociological, health and social, and consensus should be found, both on the professional and political platform. [[18.30 hours]] Most importantly, pension reform must not only be seen from an economic point of view, as I said, but also from a fair point of view. The pension system must be set up so that people can trust and perceive that they are treated fairly. This is what pension reform should look like. But unfortunately, the proposal that we are debating now is not like that. These are mostly cuts in order to save money from the state budget, cuts that will mean a significant gradual reduction in the standard of living of pensioners. In the current and other changes, the government's optics show that it is necessary to save money, so it is necessary to reduce pensions, make it as difficult as possible to leave early retirement and then increase retirement age in other proposals, regardless of how much it will mean for current and future pensioners to deteriorate the quality of their lives. In addition, at a time when the cost of living has been greatly increased, energy, fuel prices have increased significantly, but also food, medicines and other goods, when services have become more expensive, including social services that are indispensable to some people, and also when VAT is about to rise to the most sensitive items such as medicines, aqueous, flowable, heat and more. Under such conditions, the government decided to make the elderly even more difficult and save on them. And this is done by the government, which essentially canceled the EET for no reason and was deprived of at least 15 billion a year, President Babiš mentioned more. In addition, it has set up three unnecessary ministerial posts, has the most advisors and political vice-chairs alongside senior directors, who have not effectively addressed inflation, the energy crisis, and the rise in food prices, and the people who have fallen into poverty because of these problems have advised them to go to the Labour Office for Social Benefits. It can therefore be seen in this proposal that economists were mostly talking about it and that the socio-economic effects on current and future pensioners were not adequately taken into account. The big problem with the proposal is that it has not gone through a broad social debate. As the trade unions say, there has not even been a sufficient discussion with the social partners, and the trade unions express disapproval and concern about the way in which the changes are discussed and the content of the changes themselves. To illustrate the risk of a negative impact on a large part of the population, I would like to mention a study by the Institute for Democracy and Economic Analysis, which deals with the calculation of a specific rate of inflation for individual types of households based on the linking of data on the expenditure of those types of households with inflation. It is clear that inflation has marked the expenditure of all households, otherwise it has affected pensioners, families with children, or singles. All domestic households have faced extreme price growth in recent months, but each slightly different - following how their housing, food, transport, clothing, and other items differ. The study shows who the most expensive life in the Czech Republic was between January 2020 and March 2023. Inflation for families with children came out at 32,4 % over a given period, for singles at 33 percent. Most of all, however, spending felt the price increase of the pensioner's household. In addition, the study envisaged inflation for senior households with higher spending, where it grew by 33,4 % cumulative, and pensioners with lower spending inflation, which showed a peak of 34,5 %. Inflation during that period was an average of 32,9%. A pensioner's household in research was considered to have income only from an old-age pension. Inflation has slowed down in the Czech Republic in recent months, but this does not mean that prices have reached the original level. And the real effects of inflation, which have been above the usual average for two years, are important. As the study mentioned above showed, the most serious damage to inflation, the reduction of which the government did not effectively address, were vulnerable groups. These include seniors and disabled people, and these most vulnerable groups will also have a further negative impact on the current and other proposed changes. The big problem is, too, that the changes concern people who have only been retired for a few years and that we have been assured by the Minister of Labour that they will not be affected. Many times in public space from the government it was said that parametric changes in pensions would affect people under 40 years of age, later it was said under 45 years of age, because older citizens who are pre-retired would no longer be able to adapt to the changes without causing any harm to them, even though serious changes in the current proposal concern people who are already pre-retired. In the area of early pensions, penalizations occur - not only is it a permanent significant reduction in early retirement, but another penalty is that this will not be fully validated during the period of early retirement, which will result in further humiliation. Changes in early retirement will have such a negative impact that, in essence, early retirement for a large group of people will make it impossible. Once again, I appeal to the fact that we need, above all, to perceive the social effects of change sensitively in this area. For example, they consider the reduction of the possible period of early retirement from the current five years to just three years to be unfair to future pensioners and completely inadequately taking account of individual circumstances, the needs of people of the pre-retirement age and different health, personal and family circumstances. The proposed change is too strict for me from this point of view. Each person can get into unexpected situations of life so serious that they can force him to leave the working environment before he wishes. According to a study by the Research Institute for Labour and Social Affairs, the most important situations are the deterioration of health status, fatigue, job loss or longer unemployment in the pre-retirement age without the prospect of getting a new job. In the environment of the labour market, we still experience the fact that older people often face a number of prejudices and problems. There is still a lack of real supply of short, shared and other flexible jobs that help older people to stay on the labour market for a longer time. The proposals for changes cannot only be followed by demographic developments, but they must also be taken into account as they change and change the economy and the labour market into the future. Seniors are among the most endangered groups of people. Most of them are fully dependent on old-age pensions. Due to high inflation and high food and service prices, their standard of living often declines noticeably, and this is negatively reflected in the quality and dignity of their lives. Therefore, we cannot agree with the amendments tabled because they mean an unfair deterioration of the conditions for future and basically current pensioners. We have tabled several amendments with colleagues from the ANO movement, as colleagues have already said. I will justify Amendment 2854. The proposed amendment is intended to mitigate sanctions in reducing the pension percentage by 1,5 %, as proposed, by maintaining the current three rates of reduction in the retirement pension percentage, i.e. 0,9 %, 1,2 % and 1,5 %, depending on the year in which retirement age is reached. The reason for the amendment is that it cannot be ignored that the proposed penalty is disproportionately high and does not distinguish between a situation where early retirement takes place at the time of the last year to reach retirement age from situations where retirement takes place earlier, according to the new proposal first at a time when retirement age is missing for three years. The proposal thus has a significant potential to have a very negative impact on the income page and overall property ratios of those who have chosen to retire early retirement often for legitimate reasons originating in an adverse physical or mental state. The government's proposal will make the difficult life situations that these people are getting into even worse, and because of the poor socio-economic development of recent times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u139	Thank you, and I'll ask Vice Prime Minister Jurečka for a point of fact... She's downloading, so Mrs. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u140	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Minister and Mr Haas, through Mr President, I certainly thank you for the interpretation. Now I'd just like to ask you one last question and answer it. So what would happen if there were extraordinary and proper valuations - because the minister said that it would not affect - so what would happen if it were on January 1, 2024? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister - I see he wants to respond. And does Mr Haas still want to respond? Maybe it's just Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you pulled it off, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u142	I was explaining. In fact, this does not affect the number of pensions in the context of proper valuation in 2024 and I do not see why we should change that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u143	Thank you. There's no other de facto... [[Mrs Mračková does not understand.]] I can still see - Mr. Haas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think the Minister has expressed this not only in this reply, but also in the previous one - with regard to real economic data, because the extraordinary increase is based on real economic data - this is clearly stated in the explanatory report, by 2026, if I say this well, he is not considering extraordinary valorisation, because the average of hard economic data will not justify extraordinary valorisation. [[Member Mračková Vildumetz from: And proper?]] And now I will use a clear answer to what will happen and there potentially - and the transitional provision must be there for reasons of legal certainty, because, of course, we are talking about data for the future - the transitional provision of Article. Point II (4) clearly states: "If there is no further increase in extraordinary valorisation at an exceptional date in 2023 before the effectiveness of this law, the relevant period for the beginning of the relevant period for the price increase will be the beginning of February 2023. For the purposes of determining the period from 1 January 2024, if an extraordinary valuation had occurred during this year' - if it had occurred, this is clearly written in the explanatory memorandum, and in the transitional setting - "if this exceptional increase had occurred, for 1 January 2024 it was the beginning of August 2023, for 1 January 2025 September 2023." But I would point out that these are hypothetical data that must be in the law because the law must also count on what is very unlikely in the real world. I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. All the facts have been exhausted, so at this point I would like to ask Mr Hendrych, who is enrolled in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I'm going to cut this short, because I've already said some things here today that I wanted to say. I would like to concentrate primarily on the justification of my amendment to this press, which is registered under number 2851 and which I will then sign up to in a detailed debate, and then I will say a few other related ones, I think a little bit of the important thing about this legal change that we are discussing here today. My amendment aims to return mandatory insurance periods for 35 years in the case of early retirement applicants. The current construction of the Ministry of Labour is to increase to 40 years. My amendment, or our amendment, because I submitted it with my colleagues from the ANO movement, returns the parameter back to 35 years and the reason is that we are concerned that this condition for early retirement is too hard - too hard with regard to college-educated people, especially in the future, who might have a problem with fulfilling this parameter. I know that the minister here today said in his opening words that this problem should not exist, because the current average insurance period is 44.5 years, if I remember it well, so basically there's some kind of reserve over 40 years and there shouldn't be a problem to fill that parameter. However, I would argue that people are currently going into retirement, and they will be leaving for some time, which accounts for the period of higher education, I suspect that this is until 2010, and that they are still relatively young people, and then they will not be counted again. By the way, the same opinion as we in the club of the ANO movement has also been expressed by the Office of the Ombudsman, who communicated with us at the last meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and expressed exactly the same concern. It is not just a single reason, we are essentially still interested in the fact that we do not know what new old-age pensions will look like, their constructions, when they will pay and so on. It is a matter that will only be put forward in the context of the so-called pension reform. We do not have a list of demanding professions at this time, it is also being created, and of course we will be happy if there is any meaningful document. And for these reasons, we think that this parametric adjustment may also be premature or unsystemic, and that is why we are proposing to amend it in this amendment. About the early retirements as a whole. He is a relatively long phenomenon, which is very much trying to resemble the current discourse to the extraordinary situation that occurred last year, when high inflation was here, and it was covered by legal valorisation in several terms, extraordinary therefore, and it is a bit forgotten that the early pensions here have been used for quite a long time, many, many years, and it had basically nothing to do with these events. On the contrary, it is surprising that some 30 percent of people currently, or perhaps more than 30 percent of them, have retired early in their day, and they were people who left five, ten, fifteen years ago. And I'm asking myself, why? Here I have a feeling that there is some theory that people in the Czech Republic are lazy, that they do not want to work, and that is why they go into early retirement, even though they will be permanently penalized in early retirement and that it will never come back to them. I don't stand for this theory, and on the contrary, I think it's about something else entirely, or the reasons are somewhere else. It is about the fact that people who go into old-age pensions, at least according to the statements that I have at my disposal - there are some studies to do so, but they are not quite representative to be generalized - they basically leave because for some reason they have difficulty prosecuting the pace of work, or the performance that is expected of them, around the 60s, 62s of age, which is essentially relatively correlated with the comments of gerontologists who claim that yes, we live on ever-higher age gradually, but somewhere the age of health oscillates around that year 62 roughly. I think these are the reasons why these people are using this social policy instrument, leaving earlier, knowing that they will be permanently penalized. I think that we should think about this - also in the context of the upcoming pension reform, whose parameters we do not yet know exactly in opposition - why this is so, what can be done about it. It's a phenomenon that, of course, is unpleasant from different angles, but I certainly wouldn't interpret it by saying that these people are going into retirement early from some kind of plezier. [[18.50 hours]] We are already retiring, specifically this year, in 2023, the 1959 editions are leaving exactly 64 years of age. And then we're going to go up to 65 and then we're going to see it. And we don't actually have any empirical experience at the moment with how it actually works in the labour market for these people. We don't know. They're prosecuting, they're not catching up - if I say it to the public? But at the same time, there is a vision here, and now I'm moving a little bit of the framework of this debate to this press, because there are basically some kind of signals coming from the Ministry, or from the Minister, that retirement is going to increase. And we still don't know what it's going to do with 64-year-olds, 65-year-olds, but we do know that we have a huge cohort of people who are already receiving early retirement pensions. So this is definitely something that's still worth thinking about and considering. I have already announced here at first reading, when I was talking here, that if it comes - we are almost a little bit counting on it, even though we are not at all excited about it - the proposal that the retirement age will increase over 65 years after a certain period of time that it would be appropriate to treat it in some way, some special legislation in the sense that between the 65th year of age and the actual retirement, if that happens, we will, of course, oppose it, but if the government coalition decides to consider it in such a last resort case that the period from 65 years above would be considered as a substitute period, if it were more advantageous for that particular person. It doesn't have to be for everyone, I'm not saying this, but for some, it can be more advantageous and employment on the labour market can actually be very problematic at that age. They can stay on it, but they can already work in professions that can basically screw up their retirement average, because they won't be working with the kind of commitment and performance they did when they were younger. I said it at first reading, I say it now, when it comes to the table in particular, we're going to do it one more time and in more detail. So I guess that's it for me at this point. I will, as I have announced in a detailed debate, formally sign up for my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u147	Thank you and please Mr Milan Wenzl. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, pensions are not social benefits, but unfortunately, the government is treating them that way. Pensions are entitled for people working and helping to build the economy, developing the country, and taking money away from it. By retirement, the state should basically pay them back. Although this government focused primarily on pensioners, it did so in a way that it constantly lowers their standard of living. She took from them the money that belonged to them by law, slows down pension growth, does not solve inflation, expensive energy, or expensive food. She also canceled their fare discount. I kept wondering why the government was actually doing it like this, and I found out it was probably because it needed to finance a plane for the President of Ukraine. And now I don't know how long or how many times the President of Ukraine will come to our house. So let us return to pension reform, which is not really a reform, but a deformity of the existing system. How does the state intend to ensure continued stability? By relying exclusively on the permanent influx of migration, which should perhaps improve the statistical outlook for our demographic curve, so important for the stability of the ongoing pension insurance system? One further consideration of the government's proposal is also an increase in the assessment base at the CFI, up to 55 percent, which de facto increases the progress of the taxation of entrepreneurs and businessmen. So the ODS is increasing our tax progress here, despite its repeated assurance that it will not increase taxes. I think that should be considered mainly by all entrepreneurs and tradesmen who voted for the ODS. Yes, the ODS, which increases taxes, violates its electoral promises, also betrays its ideal anchoring and embarks on a path of political opportunism. However, he, dear voters, businessmen and businessmen, Professor Petr Fiala will explain it to you in some way. I'd like to lighten it up, too, because - I don't know if you heard the government sitting on the sidewalk, a little boy walked on the sidewalk and saw the windows open and started screaming, "Dumb government, chocolate got expensive." And next thing you know, stupid government, chocolate gets expensive! The Minister of Finance couldn't take it anymore, he ran into the window and said, "Dumb kid, we've upped everything! So I lightened it up a little bit. So the result of the proposed changes is that the state will guarantee it even less in the future than before, even worse in quality than before - if it is able to guarantee anything at all. The state thus fails in all fundamental functions and takes the weakest hostages of its incompetence. A moment ago, President Schillerová asked why retired people? That's a simple answer - because pensioners aren't your constituents. That's why. This is how you run the state, Prime Minister and Ministers, through Mr President, it is a disaster made, a complete economic amateurism for which a precedent can be found only from the era of your failed government from 2008 to 2009, again with the participation of the ODS and of course always the people present. Please stop harming this country, stop presenting stupid, antisocial bills against the interests of this country and the interests of its citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u149	Thank you for your contribution and I will ask for another duly signed up, and this is Mr Robert Stržínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, we have today at first and then at second reading to discuss the Government's proposal for a law amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance. There is probably no more discussed topic in Czech politics today - apart from the tax package - than what the government euphemistically calls pension reform, other attempts at pension reform, other parodys, or quite openly pasculi and attacking the certainty of today's and future seniors. The subject is explosive and controversial, for several reasons. For sooner or later, each of us will want to experience the conclusion of his life with dignity, without fear and existential pressures. But what the current government is planning does not offer such a perspective, on the contrary. With its chaos, amateurism, imbalances and a number of obvious mistakes and shortcomings, it raises fears and fears about the future of most of our country's citizens. [[19.00 hours]] Yes, there is no doubt that the pension system urgently needs substantial changes and adjustments. I understand that no pension system can be completely fair to everyone. Rather, it is about making such a system as least unfair as possible. Citizens must feel that they are treated fairly and fairly from the pension system. In this case, however, justice is not involved. Your government has committed itself to proposing pension reform on the basis of a broad social debate. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened yet. Everything is accompanied by a mantra of falling budget, with Petr Fiala's government very well aware of its adverse development in the first half of last year. She knew because, as a result of a sharp rise in inflation, she herself helped him, as well as a number of incompetent steps, such as at a time of a rocket increase in energy prices, against which she was unable to intervene effectively and quickly after months of overstepping and changing concepts. Yet pension reform did not address last year. Political reasons and efforts not to anger voters over the presidential election took precedence over immediate action for the benefit of the citizens of this country. So, following the election of the new president, the government announced that it would humiliate the legal ratification contrary to previous promises. The same government, which criticized the previous government for declaring a state of legislative emergency in the event of a direct and immediate threat to lives at the time of the covideo pandemic, then abused this situation because of pensions, whose solution was postponed for almost a year, so as not to record the opposition. The so-called pension reform is a hot topic not only in parliamentary benches, but perhaps in every household and at every inn table, for its inaccuracies, chaoticness, incomprehensibleness and unbalancedness. The measures promoted are undercooked, undercooked and evidently unclear in the government coalition itself. But the answers to the questions that ordinary people ask themselves are clear. Will we be better off after the proposed pension changes? Do we have more money left in our wallets at the end of the month than we do today? Will retirement be a rest for us after decades of honest work and money transfer to the Treasury? Unfortunately, the answers to these questions are no, no and no. Citizen, taxpayer, senior will not be better off due to the so-called pension reform of the government of Petr Fiala, will not have a higher pension than he has today due to inflation and price growth, and he will not have any more money at the end of the month. However, he will work longer, his early retirement will be reduced to the maximum and he will be disadvantaged and his pension savings money will be devalued because this government is unable to resolve matters related to pensions comprehensively, including the pressure on pension funds so that they do not become the least profitable within the whole of the European Union. On top of that, the citizen will have to worry that, in a few years' time, the so-called pension reform is going to be retracing and changing everything because of repairs to the messed-up so-called pension reform. It is also trivial that this government wishes those who do not want to pay taxes on their business and supports the black economy. All over the Republic, in restaurants and shops, we swarm like mushrooms after rain: We don't take cards, which is a clear consequence of the hurried abolition of the functioning EET system, which worked and brought the Treasury 14 billion a year with a growing tendency. Reason? We promised our voters, and we had to keep our promise. So I ask: Why is it no longer time to fulfill the election vows, such as those about tax increases? Pension reform is a topic of social importance and impact. It concerns all of us, it should not be a political motto before the election, neither a stick at anyone, nor a lollipop for certain groups of voters. Above all, it should be the result of the consensual, conceptual actions of the government and the opposition, but also of employees and employers. This government had enough time and enough information to act, prepare proposals for solutions, and discuss them far before it did. After all, she assured us before the election how she had everything ready, how she had the best experts in all areas, and how everything would go like wired after the winning election. She promised not to raise taxes, she promised to cut state spending and slimming it, and she brought the opposite to the citizens. This government forgets that it does not represent all citizens and all the voters of our country, even at present it is only one third of them, and that by pushing anything without consensus with the opposition, it creates a threat to the future abolition of such laws after the next elections. Acting on such a fundamental matter as pension reform with opposition should be a matter of course of every responsible policy, regardless of party affiliation or ideal orientation. But the current government doesn't see it that way. By the power of power, he intends to assert at all costs what he wants, and a citizen, a future and an existing senior, as a hostage to this government, can only knock his heels down and bow his head. Petr Fiala's government has prepared a pension quasi-reform that will have an immediate impact on the whole of society, and this impact will only increase as social contributions are gradually increased and further changes are brought into practice. The government's motto for these changes is loud: the state doesn't have enough money, we need to start saving and managing heavily. At the same time, however, the same state spends money elsewhere and does not keep its pre-election promises regarding the investigation where it is offered first, i.e. in the expense of the State itself. Instead of reducing the number of officials, we have seen increases. Instead of abolishing unnecessary institutions and with them the directorial posts came the creation of new offices and lucrative posts associated with them. Instead of dampening and delaying some of the disputed projects, such as the elimination of native numbers, the planned expenditure on their implementation is increasing in the amount of tens of billions. There is no interest in reducing or freezing the salaries of politicians, judges and other civil servants. So everything that citizens are waiting for when they hear that they should be saved. It's a disgrace to this government to start saving on the most defenseless, retired people. The bill is a failure. It appears to be a pension reform, but it is not really a pension reform, but merely a parametric adjustment of some indicators without any attempt at complexity, for which the actual pension reform has been crying out for such a long time. Like the failed one, this proposal is also useless. I am convinced that it will not solve the long pension crisis in our country, but, on the contrary, it will deepen it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u151	Hello, we took turns managing the meeting. Thank you for this contribution and I have Mr Kučera's factual comment. But here... I see him, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u152	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I very much appreciate the fact that there are Members who will prepare this written report, that they are doing it tonight, that they will write it down and then someone here will feel it for us, someone with greater difficulty will read it to us. However, I would have made such a proposal to improve the work of the Chamber of Deputies if you had written these reports - because there was a time when Members were ashamed to come here to a counter with a written report, most of them spoke out of their head, really few people read the report, today it prevails, the reports are getting more and more often - so I would have such an idea to improve the work of the Chamber of Deputies. These reports, if you write them, please send them to us by e-mail or print them out and save time and make the House of Deputies more efficient. So it's kind of my little contribution to how our work here could improve - all those who write these reports after nights, or their assistants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u153	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Peštová has another factual point and Mr Nacher will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr Kučera, through Madam President, that was very much of you - how should I put this? - tactless. Indelicate! I mean, quite different words come to mind in that head, but it's tactless. Like someone writing a post and reading it here, why not? You, when you speak with Mr Jakob, through Madam President, I do not understand you at all. You're talking low, but no one understands you. So it's better to have it written than to say this nonsense that you say! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u155	I also thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Nacher's turn to make a point of fact and to prepare Mr Juchelka. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u156	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'm gonna react because my colleague Kučera is gonna have a hard time, because he knows I'm talking downstairs, or I've got notes from the paper, so I really didn't understand his performance. He's got him here repeatedly. He once accused me that my report was not the rapporteur's report, even though I thoroughly implemented the Members by law - properly, a few hours after his colleague, on the contrary, knew little about the bill he had been reporting on - so I suspect that he had made a deal with Minister Jurečka, who probably needs to rest because he knew that when he spoke with this act, that a whole number of people would apply to factual remarks to respond to it, because I think this does not belong here at all. Someone's going down, somebody's got notes, somebody's gonna write it down, they'll read it, and maybe I remember in the last election period some of the members of the current coalition, the former opposition, have read things that have nothing to do with it, what I remember, so they were some European directives and so on. So in this, if we were to take this from this point of view, it's a shift in political culture that so far, all the performances that were here and said were about the thing that we're discussing here. And I have to say, fair and square again, that the Minister, and most of the time, is reacting in some way, and I think that's okay. But calmly, I have no problem with this - suggest a change in the Rules of Procedure that they will not be able to read speeches here, and I wonder how your coalition MPs are dealing with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u157	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mr Juchelka's turn and Mr Kott will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u158	Hello. So we learned from Mr. Kučera, through you, such a lovely underhanded, Mr. Kučera laughter. It's nice. It's actually in the guard, as we know from the President of the House or from Minister Jurečka, who used it to me in a political discussion, and it was: be quiet and move your feet. I understand that the government coalition has had a little bit of a political democratic deficit since the beginning of its reign. We perceive this, of course, across the political spectrum, even citizens perceive it, but there is a debate here at this counter. If you have any comment, any factual comment on pension reform, I'd love to fight you, but for now you're just a joker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u159	Thank you. Another point of fact is Mr Kott's turn and Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u160	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. I, through you, to the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee. She's not a topic and she's a topic, is she? So, at a time when these topics are simple, of course, I can imagine - and you, Mr President, know this very well, and we have had this discussion together - that there are things that are really based on experience. At the moment when there are some sections, some numbers, some comparisons, I dare say that it is better to prepare and somehow pass on relevant information than to cook from the water here. And while I appreciate everyone's work, I think it's better if someone comes in here and says something that's true. And I think that all those who have been here and who have read it can justify themselves and do not need to be justified by someone who does not understand this issue much. But I think that we have unnecessarily extended the debate, and if there is the will to discuss this law, then I think we should get back to the race. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u161	Thank you. It is now Mr Kučera's turn to prepare Mr Vondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u162	Hello again. I'm very sorry about the previous speeches, and I'm really going to have to start writing these speeches, because it's a big misunderstanding of my factual remark, which was more or less intended to commend the people who are going to write the report and then read it here - someone worse, someone better, someone even feeling it, because he's reading it at home at night, so he's also preparing for the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I really appreciate it. But I really just wanted to give a little bit of a job improvement theme that we could e-mail it to each other when someone already writes it when they're doing the job and writing it down, so that they could send it to us, or the assistant who writes it, print it out, and give it to us on the bench. We'll read it, yes, it'll make it more effective, the arguments will come out, and I think the work here will be much faster and faster. But of course, if there isn't, I'll still be happy to listen to the reports. I'm definitely not stopping anyone from reading them here. So maybe I am sorry about Mrs Peštová's speech, which I like and which I appreciate that she did not understand that way. But I believe it was just a misunderstanding, and with this contribution, I explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u163	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Vondráček's turn to prepare Mr Lang. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for the floor. Mr Kučera, through Madam President, we have been here for a year, you are not a rookie, you are the chairman of the committee. I'm pretty sure the only logical reason you got out is to really check if we're on alert and if we're listening to everything here, because there's no other logical reason for it. Your performance was understood perfectly correctly. You have not commended anyone, and I would just like to remind you that the word Parliament is speaking from the word, first of all, and second of all, that parliamentary debate is the only legitimate source, in fact, of any interpretation or legitimacy of the law, and you know this very well. I'm more surprised you're acting as a representative of a party whose chairman Miroslav Kalousek here has read the entire screen recording of another meeting on Vrbětice. The whole major read it to us when I think we were dealing with the EET, if I remember correctly. All these reports, as you say, were pointless, weren't just about something completely different, so I'd like to ask for some self-esteem in this case, and if you want to send those reports, then, colleague, I know, maybe you don't know: psp.cz. There are stew records, there you can go for a ride, there you can print it out and at night you can study it in peace. But the rest of us really have a right to say it here, and not a right to say it here, we have a duty to say it here. Your comment didn't belong here, just like I didn't belong in sending e-mails afterwards. We can do that, but we can do that behind that door. There's still the Chamber of Deputies. You guys are smiling, you know that, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. Mr Lang is now on the verdict and Mr králíček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u166	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, to Mr Kučer, through you, Madam President. You've upset it! I didn't want to perform at all today because it's not my topic. For how serious it is, when it's really playing for seniors, and if you see the emails we get during the day, I don't know why you're expressing yourself like that. Now you're sitting on the bench, laughing. I just don't think it really belongs here either. And everyone's different. Just someone has the gift, the ability to speak, like Minister Rakušan. He speaks, speaks, speaks beautifully. He doesn't say anything in his nature, but he talks like a book. Someone's got to set it up. And if you were saying ironically here a second ago that it would be our assistants - how did you figure out that it was written by an assistant? Maybe it's written by an assistant. We usually write our own speeches, and if someone just doesn't feel like it here, because I'm also here for the first term, and it really does come out here in front of people when it's being taken, and you want to say it here so that it has a head and a heel, so you can just get it ready. I don't see anything wrong with it. Show me somewhere in the Rules of Procedure that it's forbidden. So we move on to the British system where they have to speak from scratch, they can't have anything prepared, but as far as I know, so far there is no such thing in our Rules of Procedure. It was completely inappropriate, completely inappropriate, and it just doesn't really fit into what we're discussing here. These are really people who are seniors, people who can't help who carry it very hard and watch the speech. So if you thought it was funny how other co-workers were running around with some flags and stuff, I'm sure it wasn't funny for me, it was very embarrassing, Mr. Colleague! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u167	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr králíček's turn to prepare Mr Juchelka. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u168	Madam President, fellow Members, I, too, would, of course, respond to Mr Kučera. Mr Kučera, through Madam President, before you spoke, I was convinced that we would make it today. After your performance, I'm not convinced, and then you can blame yourself. By the way, just so you know, I think that Minister Jurečka and the rapporteur, at least the rapporteur, had the documents and read the speech, so maybe if you're insulting us with the speeches, you've also insulted the rapporteur and the Minister. And if you're saying we're supposed to send you those speeches, then I suggest a procedural vote to interrupt this point by Friday so that we can send you those speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u169	Thank you. A procedural proposal has fallen, I'm singing for my colleagues and I'm sensing an interest in counterproposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u170	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I would put forward a procedural counterclaim to extend... the interruption of this point, now under discussion, to 19.24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u171	Thank you. Yes, another counterproposal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u172	Madam President, procedural proposal: suspension until 19.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u173	Okay, thank you. I'll reengage. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u174	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I thank my colleague Králíček for the proposal. However, I think it will certainly take less time to send an e-mail, so if colleagues can make it in 17 minutes, let them make it in 17 minutes. So I'm giving a procedural motion to interrupt by 17 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u175	Yes, thank you. I'm sensing an interest in signing off, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards. Yes, please, a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u176	Yes, thank you for your word. I beg you, I have a counterproposal to postpone until 19.25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u177	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u178	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting forward a counter-proposal for the negotiation of the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act to be suspended for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u179	Thank you. Also counterproposal, Mr Vondráček - only with a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u180	I object to the meeting. I believe we've voted a lot, but we've never voted to postpone here before. [[Meaning extension]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u181	Thank you, but I assume it is for Mr Haas, but he has corrected himself. [[Answers from the left.]] Initiating vote. First, we will vote on Mr Michálek's amendment for 10 minutes. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 157 Members signed in, for 2, against 103, the proposal was not adopted. Another counterproposal was the suspension of the meeting until 19.25 hours. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 160 Members and Members of Parliament signed up for 0 against 116. The motion was not accepted. The next counterproposal is a 17-minute suspension of the meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 162 Members and Members, in favour of 3, against 114. The motion was not accepted. The next counterproposal is to interrupt the meeting by 7:30 p.m. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 163 Members and Members signed in for 5 against 113. The motion was not accepted. Mr Haas' counterproposal is no longer unvoting, because he proposed within 1924 hours. And now we have Mr Králíček's proposal to interrupt this meeting by Friday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 164 Members and Members signed in for 73, versus 85. The motion was not accepted. Will I ask Mr Vondráček if he wants to vote against it? No, thank you. We continue to discuss this point. We still have the actual applications. It is now Mr Juchelka's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u182	Thank you very much. I thought that Mr Kučera, by your means, would take his place, and that he would apologize to the Chamber of Deputies, because at the moment he lacks elementary respect not only for the Chamber of Deputies, for the plenary, for this counter itself, for the debate, which is precisely one of the democratic values on which the House stands, but also has great disrespect for its fellow Members, and ultimately great disrespect for the citizens of the Czech Republic themselves. What he is expressing here maybe he could do to us practically, and on the subject here at this point, apply to the debate and cut some kind of speech out of our head right here to the Pension Insurance Act. I would be happy to argue with him in factual remarks, too, but for the time being, Mr Kučera, you really are just a mere ridiculer with great disrespect for the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u183	Thank you for keeping time. I would like to ask my colleagues to be quiet in the hall, especially in the right section, and please move your calls to the lobby. Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, it is Mrs Berkovcová's turn to prepare Mrs Peštová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u184	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, we're not here to justify our writing and reading our contributions. And, Mr Kučera, through Madam President, who are you and what have you proved that you dare to assess the quality of our contributions here and to judge that those written are less valuable than those made on the ground? [[Let's hear it for the left.]] No matter how hard I try, I can't remember the last time I heard you here and saw you standing and speaking professionally on a fundamental subject. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] It come up here to the counter and bark a few insults, you really don't need paper for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u185	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mrs Peštová's turn to make a point of fact and Mrs Adámková will be prepared. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u186	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Kučera, I'm sorry, I wrote down a few notes because it was falling, so I'm gonna stick to the subject. As far as we're concerned, when we're discussing pension valorization, now you're being beautifully democratic, or we have beautifully democratically demonstrated that you've been reading here for 5, 10, 15, 20 minutes. And did you hear Madam President, through Madam President, that she would say: Is that enough, as Mrs Pekarová said when we were discussing pension valorisation? When we were discussing the pension valorization law, Mrs Pekarová said: That's enough, the counterproposals, that's enough, they're all the same. That was democracy. This time, Madam President has written nicely and everyone has actually registered your counterproposal, and we have voted on it. That was one beautiful demonstration of democracy. [[19.30 hours]] But I wanted to ask you, when you were in the last Chamber of Deputies or the previous Chamber of Deputies, if you had made such a suggestion that you would send your contributions among yourselves to speed up the operation of the Chamber of Deputies. I didn't notice anything like that. The only thing I have noticed, as my colleague Patrik Nacher said, through Madam President, that they have been read here - I do not know - the directives and the tax directives and then the tapestry. That's the level, that's the level of speeches you're making. Our colleagues are preparing speeches with heads and heels, while you're dusting or sniffing out a dead maid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u187	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mrs Adámková's turn to prepare Mr Nacher - factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u188	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr Kučera, unfortunately, through Madam President, I am very sorry for your contribution, because it is neither cultivated nor smart nor courageous. However, I understood that you were given the task of embellishing and that you took it with respect to yourself. I had no idea that the coalition wanted to build its own proposal, but you managed to do this for at least 18 minutes. It was in a rather strange way, I think this can be done in a more sophisticated way, but well, everyone does as they can. Otherwise, I would like to remind you of what my esteemed previous speaker, Mr Vondráček, said. Parliament is really out of this to talk. Parla, parlare is a famous Latin verb, I don't have to remind my colleagues with classic education here, and that's what all depends on. If we don't talk here, we don't have to be here. I do not know how you feel, therefore, through Madam President, but we certainly have a great responsibility to our constituents, and I therefore apologise to all those who are watching this, that they must go through this obstructive one-minute wheel. But please, Mr Kučera was given an assignment, so he probably did it well. To realize who speaks from above and who reads - neither one nor the other is better, nor worse, first. Secondly, when you notice, we usually talk down. It's probably because we only talk to things we understand, and our assistants really don't have to write anything to us. If that's the case with you, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u189	I also thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Nacher's turn to prepare Mr Beitl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u190	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to say to all the incoming coalition MPs who are upset that they ran here in the heat, that it was your colleague Kučera's fault, because if he hadn't stepped out, my colleague králíček wouldn't have brought the procedural proposal. So for all of you who are sweaty here, you're here, you're sitting here, and you're upset that you have to run here, thank your colleague. And second point. The last week I've been going to the media, I've been getting questions about obstructions and stuff. So far, all the speeches that have been made from our ranks have not been obstructive, concerning content. I hope the rapporteur, who's looking at me now, will be right. The only obstructive contribution here was from coalition MP Kučera
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u191	Thank you and so far the final point of fact, Mr Beitl. [[Mr Beitl is not present in the Chamber.]] It's not, so we're going back to the debate. Now, Mrs Oulehlová is ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u192	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, I do not agree with the proposed amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which will deprive citizens of money who have worked their whole lives and believed that it will ensure adequate pensions, ensuring them in old age, disability or other social events. The proposed measures may be aimed at stabilizing public finances, although I highly doubt it, but they are at the expense of one of the most economically endangered groups of people who have been facing significant financial problems for longer periods of time because of inflation, growth in energy prices, housing, food, medicines and medical aids. For recovery only: in December 2021, the price for the megawatt hour of electricity was CZK 1, 218. Today, the price after the government's ceiling is 6,050. The truth is, fortunately, suppliers who sell electricity have prices slightly lower, but even so, the increase is huge. Following a change in pension valorisation conditions since June 2023, it is in a short period of time another measure seeking savings to remedy the unhappy state of public finances in the area of pensions by reducing pension entitlements of current pensioners, although it is clear that pensioners themselves have not caused high inflation and extreme price growth. On the contrary, especially those who live alone and do not have the opportunity to increase their pension income by work are the most common victims. Moreover, the proposed solution is a non-systemic and further obscure already complex pension system. It will also require significant administrative and financial costs related to this change. According to the proposal to adjust early pensions with changes in a number of insured persons, namely women who raised two or more children, they will not be affected by the change. [[Changes?]] For others, there is a slight shift at the moment when they can retire early retirement. I also cannot agree with this claim. I will give an example of a woman born in 1964 who raised two children. This woman leaves - or may leave - to retire properly at 64 years of age and 2 months. Under current legislation, she could retire early retirement in 2024, i.e. in 60 years, but according to the proposal she will be able to leave a year and 2 months later. Worse still will be the woman born in 1965, who raised two children. She can retire at 64 years and 8 months. According to the current legislation, she could retire early at the age of 60, but according to the proposal, she will not be able to leave until 61 years and 8 months, i.e. a year and 8 months later. So it is not true that the change of women who have raised two or more children will not affect anything. In many cases, it is a sudden leap shift in the possibility of entitlement. A shift of almost two years is not a slight shift. The Pension Insurance Act provides for § 67 para. 1 that, depending on the growth of the consumer price index and wage growth, pensions paid increase. The proposal to exempt a percentage of the pension for early retirement pensions from the valuation creates an inequality between pension beneficiaries who have fulfilled the conditions of the law for granting one of the pensions. In the case of early retirement pension beneficiaries, according to the proposal, only its basic pension ratio would increase, so they would not increase the pension paid, as provided for by the law, but only the part of the pension paid. According to the calculation, it can be more than CZK 2,500. [[19.40 hours]] The pension-raising mechanism is regulated in the Pension Insurance Act to protect old-age pension beneficiaries who, as a rule, no longer have funds other than the income of their old-age pension and thus protect them from inflation and falling into poverty. A pensioner receiving an early retirement pension may not, until the pension age is reached, pursue a gainful activity which is based on participation in insurance and is generally dependent only on the pension benefit. Many pre-retirement applicants were either registered in the Labour Office or cared for an dependent and could not be employed. I am no longer talking about how much money these people actually saved in the system because they were caring for someone close to them who is infirm, or some of them had first or second degrees of disability, and unfortunately their health is already very limited in order to be able to work full-time. In fact, by applying for early retirement, these people resolved not only their situation but also the situation for us because they were not dependent on some welfare benefits. They just asked for early retirement. Recipients of early old-age pensions are already penalized by a new adjustment on the basis of the calculation of the pension amount itself, and this is permanent. These beneficiaries of the pension have fulfilled the conditions of the necessary insurance periods for granting a legally adjusted type of old-age pension, so they should not be treated differently with regard to the impact of price increases on pension recipients. I do not consider deviating legislation on early retirement pensions desirable. In the end, the proposal would lead to the threat of poverty to these people and the need to spend money on an uninsurable system. In other words, we're gonna run these people into the Labor Office, where they're gonna be forced to ask for social benefits, and in the end, it can only get expensive. Personally, I think that many people are asking for early retirement for the very reasons that I mentioned here: either they have no strength to work full-time or really health reasons, or - that's probably the most common - that they really cared about someone whose days were over, and it was hard to go back somewhere, maybe he didn't have anywhere to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u193	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Nacher's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u194	Madam Vice-President, ministers or ministers - Minister, you've been left here all alone, you know that, of all ministers? Yeah, you're not scared, that's good. The question is, if it is, it is - I am glad that you are here, I will also have some questions - the question is whether it is dignified, when we are discussing something quite important here, which some coalition Members call pension reform, that there is only one government minister sitting here, that is me - the one that is concerned, that is good - but that seems to me frankly quite strange, for me is such a classic double standard. Can you imagine, that was the other way around, and we'd be a government party, there'd be only one minister, you'd be in opposition, so if it was totally cool for you that ministers only run here when the vote is due? [[the following ……]] That's kind of a note in front of the parentheses. Otherwise, if there was a co-worker Kučera here who probably packed it up because he saw that he was holding it for 45 minutes, he'd know I had a lot of paperwork, but I don't read it, I just have notes and some questions prepared. Now I, in general, what's going on with this proposal, what's going on around it. I find the communication that is generally going on around pensions that is necessary to do something about it, because the pensions so that they don't pay off on debt, which is - and I've already talked about it there in this factual note - creates an impression that I think is very unfair that in fact the only item, she is very significant in the state budget, that is, pension payments, is on debt, while all other items, those as on debt are not, because for those other items it doesn't stress it that way. That's the point, it doesn't emphasize, and then it makes it seem like those seniors should be ashamed. Here we have to say that we have an ongoing system, but each of us is simply paying social security and then calculating his pension. That means it's not a liking, it's not some welfare benefit, it's not some charity, it's what this guy's been doing his whole life, so he's gonna get it back. That means this communication seems unhappy to me. This also has to do with what we've been talking about here, it's the intergenerational solidarity, intergenerational reconciliation, or the emphasis, and it has to do with the debt - that if this doesn't change, future generations won't have the pensions, future generations won't have the different contributions - parental, maternal and so on - and it suddenly puts those generations against each other, where the younger ones say, "Well, you have to bear this, you have to accept this, because that's what you're punishing us for. And that seems very inappropriate to me by communicating. That's why I'd take a few numbers to see the context. First of all, when you look, the retirement age in Europe is on average between 62 years - Italy - and 66 and a quarter in the Netherlands. We're at 64 today, that's going to be 65, so we're on average somewhere. Just so we're clear, it doesn't look like we're retiring early. The second number, which is the share of the pensions expenditure, of GDP. It's currently some sort of 7.7 to 7.8. So let's see who, in which countries it is more for us to see the ratio, the context: Germany 10.2, Poland 10.6, Austria 13, France 13.6 - I will leave Greece out so that you do not say that I compare incomparable - but Italy 15.9. That's the context, and it needs to be stressed, because sometimes it looks like we're putting, I don't know, half the state budget and a third of the GDP on it. Then it's also interesting to look at the share of GDP over time, so if you look at it since 2010, and I've already started it in that factual remark, then it was 8.46. Then it went up in 2012, by the way it wasn't even here - 9:21, then it went down slowly again until 2017, it was 7.91. Then it went up in 2020 - 8.89 - and now it's going down for the last two years, 2021 GDP ratio is 8.49 and now it's in 2022 - 7.82. This means that even the ratio, when you see it in relation to other states, we're below average, and in relation to the time series it's no leap forward, on the contrary, it's been falling over the last few years. I don't mean to say that there's no adjustment, please, nicely to be understood. All I'm saying is that the communication around here is very unhappy, and it brings about something completely different than what you might want. It brings some... some remorse to the elderly, sometimes even hatred. [[19.50 hours]] The last general contribution to this is that you, for the part of the extraordinary valuation adjustment there with that part of the price increase in 30%, are counting on compensation, a temporary addition, which actually makes it what I said it was actually like a dose, like a charity, but it's not like that. I mean, people have a right to retire, they have a calculation, they've done 35, 40 years of work. This simply cannot be replaced by the fact that you now want to adjust the extraordinary valorisation and replace part of the increase in pension by some contribution, as if quasi some sort of dose, which acts in a humiliating way. That's not the way. So that's the communication. Now for the strategy. I want to ask why these things that are important and need to be dealt with - I'm not saying that again, I see the conditions, of course, how they change, how many children are born, what it's going to be like in twenty, thirty years, it's completely undoubted and it's not just about the Czech Republic, but all of Europe - but I want to ask why we can't combine it, why don't you as a government put it together here as a single comprehensive package? We now have a press of 458, an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, and then we have a press of 474, which deals with the third pillar. For example, I say that for me, in the part that concerns greater motivation, it's okay that I encourage more motivation to think about old knees, that the state positively motivates people to take more sides, that's where the proposal is, and I think it's okay. I want to ask why we're not just discussing this as a whole, because it has logic as a whole, not that we're going to shoot something now - we're in second reading next week, we're probably going to be third, we're going to get to the 474 who knows when, and the government has put things that aren't related to me for incomprehensible reasons, for example, that's the amendment to the Consumer Credit Act dealing with the early-paid mortgage fee - do you understand the absurdity? So we're talking about pensions here, for someone about pension reform, and in the end we're discussing one part of, say, the first pillar of the ongoing system, the third pillar we're going to discuss in two months, and instead of getting it together, the government's going to burn to the third pillar a mortgage-related thing that has absolutely nothing to do with it. These are simply legitimate questions of the opposition, what I'm saying here is why we're not discussing this at once, because it also has to do with the fact that there is no positive moment in this proposal, as I said, no motivation. It's just that basically it's just a blunt cut, the penalties are increasing, and I dare say that - when people wrote to me and certainly, Minister, they write to you too - it's basically indirect retroactivity from my point of view, it doesn't matter that it won't apply to people who would retire soon. So it's legitimate to talk about it here. Let's change the system for people who are 40 years old and younger because they're going to retire in 25 years, they can prepare for it, and it's not a retroactivity. But as I understand this proposal, for example, the adjustment of early retirement and the penalization, where from three levels 0.9, 1.2 and 1,5 per cent for every 90-county calendar days you've retired before, it's only going to be 1.5 per cent penalization, but it's also going to apply to people who might retire in five years and take advantage of that early retirement. That means, basically, it's about the current state of affairs, and these people can't and can't respond. So my second question is why don't you at least do it from some age to not be there - I say, I'm not a lawyer - quasi-indirect retroactivity, that it's actually related to someone who's been counting on something, who's already figured it out. He calculated: I'm going to go, I want to go into early retirement, it's going to be so much shorter, but with this proposal, it's going to be a lot shorter, and it's not forty, but it takes him fifty-nine at this point, so he doesn't have that option anymore. Let me make another point - I hope the Minister will answer me, because these are legitimate questions from the opposition for me. The next thing I know, it's not fair, it's an adjustment to extraordinary valorizations, because the extraordinary valorization, as it sounds from the title, is for extraordinary moments. The minister described here when and how inflation must rise in order to trigger the mechanism. It's kind of a vending machine for me, and I'd rather be a vending machine in the law. You know, we're talking about it here, like when they're supposed to raise or freeze the salaries of constitutional officials, that it's always better if there's some kind of vending machine that we don't permanently interfere with. Now inflation is falling because energy prices are falling worldwide, so the assumption is that the emergency situation is not going to happen, so I want to ask - I feel like I've already asked once, I don't know if the Minister has answered - if he knows something that we don't know that the extraordinary valorisation should occur in the near future. That's how he fights it, and that's how he avoids it. So I'd quite like the Minister to answer my question. As I said, the thing about extraordinary valorisation is that that part is compensated for by some temporary addition, which doesn't seem like a good thing to me. So the sum of the sum, in this proposal for me, is missing the positive, motivational moments that, for example, are needed in print 474. I miss the fact that it's not connected, that we're just going to do this now, we're going to do the third pillar in September, and actually today the minister said that at the beginning of next year we're going to do the pension reform the way that pension reform is supposed to be. I would like to call again and consistently - I may have done so in relation to building savings with the Minister of Finance, unfortunately in vain - because these are all things that are for a long time, for twenty years, for thirty years, for the government to overcome this, to pass through its shadow and simply call on the opposition to negotiate pension reform as a whole, not that there will be individual parts of it here, because it makes sense as a whole. It's not always, as you simply say with the state budget, revenue, expenses - where you don't want to raise revenue, tell me what you cut. But it's not like that, and I'll explain it to you in building savings. You cut something here, save some money, but you lose some money at the same time, because, of course, people who are renovating into the state budget, they're taking it to VAT. It's just not exactly an accountant. It is about the fact that the government has unfortunately resigned from the collection of existing taxes, then the money is scarce and then comes up with such proposals. Colleagues have already talked about this, and I'm not gonna keep it here. So I would ask the Minister if he could respond to some of my questions and suggestions, especially why we are not discussing this at once, why he does not bring up the opposition, why he risks the course that we know here from the past à la second pillar. I wasn't here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I don't know if Marian Jurečka was here at the time, but I remember the opposition at the time saying, "Please don't, don't approve." We, if we win the election, we cancel it, it's not a good financial product. By the way, if we were talking about the financial product, it really wasn't well thought out. The coalition then did not listen and introduced the second pillar. Subsequently, the following government abolished it. Well, you can't do a pension reform like that. By the way, it should also be built on the fact that these things are predictable, predictable! I've got 30 years of pension insurance, okay? I probably don't look like it, at least I hope I don't look that old, but I've been saving up for 30 years, and I need that product - and people need it too - to make it predictable, so those conditions don't change in the course of the future. And that's why we need to make an agreement with the opposition. [[20.00 hours]] So thank you for your attention. I've been trying to keep eye contact here. If Mr. Kučera were here, maybe he'd appreciate me, I've got a lot of paperwork here, but I haven't read it, I could stretch it out for two hours, but I wanted to have material questions that go to the core of the poodle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u195	Thank you, Minister, you are the only one logged in with a point of fact. So if we cancel it, your priority right follows immediately. Excellent, so now the Minister with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u196	Thank you. I'm gonna use that priority right because maybe I don't have to fit in a few seconds in two minutes. Because I'm gonna respond to Patrik Nacher. I appreciate that he is one of the few people who actually conduct the debate very factually, and I think that even fairly correctly in his questions and in his looks, even if we can't always agree on these things. However, I would like to start with the objections, if it is not more appropriate to present it here in one particular package. Well, of course I would, if the situation were, let's say, normal, normal, standard, I would very much welcome it this way, and even these two areas that we're changing with this amendment, I would like to wait and let the whole area of pension reform that we're going to submit to the government by the end of this year. However, I do not have the ambition to allow the repetition of 2022, and therefore the fact that, at the moment of extraordinary valorisation, it becomes advantageous in that year to ask for early pensions. Last year, this meant that we left the labour market in addition to roughly 40,000 people compared to previous years, because it was more advantageous. It's a loss for, say, the labour market. Apparently, people who weren't in a situation were leaving because of their, say, medical condition, weariness of fatigue would normally retire, as they did in the previous years. It's obviously become a bargain. I'm just gonna answer some of the colleagues who spoke here today, I've never said anything as a minister, I've never said any incentive for people to go and ask for early retirement. I am merely at the repeated questions of journalists who have long been watching the issue of MPSV and are also oriented in the mechanism of extraordinary valuations and know the consequences that will cause it, so I honestly answered it in September, the situation has now occurred, because when our predecessors implemented the law here sometime in 2009, no one has modelled the situation of what will happen when the pension will be valued twice in one year. If someone were to model the situation in those variants, they would have assessed that there is simply a need to come up with other measures to prevent what happened in 2022, that those people who asked for early retirement at the time of the fall of last year were in a more favourable situation that could never have occurred to those who had left before them. And with high probability, even after this period, the situation will not happen. However, I am putting forward this proposal for the government because there is a situation in which, once again, there may be a situation in which many people will be more comfortable asking for the early run now. And I'm objectively saying, I don't think it's fair, I don't think it's fair that in 2022, in 2023, some part of a few tens of thousands of people have a significantly higher advantage than people who just didn't have it before and then won't. So that's the crucial reason why this proposal is here now, why it's submitted and why its effectiveness is planned the way it's planned the first day after it comes out in the Collection of Laws. So that's one very important reason why this is done. And I think that in the past, those who amended the bill back then, I think, in 2008 or 2009, it was a mistake that they didn't demand, didn't debate, let's model those parameters even for these exceptional situations of high inflation of 8, 5, 10, 15 % and what it will do to valorize an extraordinary pension once or twice, possibly three times. Nobody asked that question. Anyway, about the other questions. The situation of pensioners has also been mentioned here, even Patrik Nacher talked about it, I just want to get back to what was forgotten here in the debate today. In the last less than a year and a half of these pensions have increased by 30 percent, we are at an average of CZK 20,000 and actually the average and median is virtually identical, which shows that the system is actually very balanced, very equal. If you look at the distribution of the amount of individual groups of pensioners who take the individual parts of thousands of crowns, it's practically the ideal Gaussův curve. And you guys have been comparing this abroad, and I just want to point out that, for example, in Germany, pensions are fully taxed and even social security is being removed. So you can't compare the amount of the payout the way some media do, and you can't clear it from the fact that the tax is then paid and the insurance is also paid. It is in many countries of Europe. Then there was information about the age of retirement. What's the line? It is also necessary to perceive and we have mentioned this in the underlying materials that all the representatives of the work team have received for pension reform, that there is a similar process in many countries today, a change in the pension system, including a shift in the age of retirement, including the establishment of the limit by the length of life that we are talking about. The same debate takes place, for example, in the Benelux countries, where they will actually design a very similar model in their legislative regulation. And we're actually moving in the expected range somewhere between 65 and 68 years in some countries. So they're counting on simply reacting to the demographic development and the longer life span. And when we look at France, which is so often mentioned, it is said here that the border that is there today is lower than in the Czech Republic - yes, but that is one of the conditions when the additional conditions mean that in fact those people in France go to retirement age sometime after the sixty-fiveth year of their lives, because they have to meet other conditions, periods of insurance, etc. So one argument cannot be pulled out and said and compared only purely and not to see the context of the other parameters. The question of the extraordinary valorisation and the replacement by the extraordinary contribution to retirement. I've explained it many times, and either people want to see it and hear the arguments, or they don't want to. The current system, as it is set up today, when the percentage is increasing only for the merit part of the pensions, leads to the scissors being opened for a long time, and the proper valuation is actually increasing the pension. And it causes you to grow faster those above-average and high pensions. So we're doing this step where we're always keeping up with proper valorizations on January 1st, which will fully valorize on inflation and one-third of the growth in real wages, which we're willing to lead the controversy when you say that some of you want to keep the one-half there. The question is, if we're going to keep this pace, that's the subject of a dispute. But no one here can use the argument that these seniors will not be fully aligned with the question of the impact of inflation growth in the future. Well, it will be. It will be fully aligned. They're not gonna lose the money, they're gonna get the money from January 1st of every year. They're gonna get their basics up and running. We're suggesting that it's valorized not at 10, but at 20 percent against average wage. And on top of that, the credit line for the inflation will be fully reviewed. So they get it, they get the full amount they're supposed to get. We're just talking about that period of about that half year and less, when if there's a rise in inflation for those few months consecutively by more than 5%, there's going to be a moment where it's going to be covering those six or less months with an extraordinary automatic contribution that's going to be set more solid. And then, from January 1st, the pensioners get full coverage of inflation and one third of the growth in real wages. And it won't create scissors opening between low- and high-income pensioners. This is really how important it is to see the system. I understand that the whole system of calculation of pensions, the system of valuations and the difference between proper and extraordinary is a thing that is not completely easy to understand. But when every person of judgment realizes these things, they have to say, no one loses anything. Those people are gonna get it. [[20.10 hours]] And then there they were - I look at my notes, I don't read it, I answer from my head. I never read speeches here, just numbers, or citations, which I have to quote here, for example, for the log. And I think I was trying to answer the essentials that Patrik Nacher was talking about. And that's about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u197	Thank you. Your speech raised two factual points - first Mr Juchelka and Mr Kubíček will prepare himself. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u198	Thank you very much. So, Minister, if they end up getting it for inflation, then why are you changing it? Why are you changing these extraordinary valorizations? You're going to say here on the one hand that you're no longer counting on the fact that the extraordinary valuation due to inflation would still be applied in some way this year, like this law, but on the other hand, you're doing a change here as if it were going to happen, and you're doing it fast and fast and you're doing it de facto non-transparable, because a lot of people who in this moment in 10 months, in a year, I'm going to retire, so they can't count on extraordinary valorization anymore. And of course, she's not going to sign up as she is at this point in time for the proper valorization, because that extraordinary contribution is the quasisocial benefit that we're talking about here. This concerns 40,000 people you talk about in the Czech Social Security Administration, so they can still be in the work process. If this is a number, and that's my question, those who actually went into early retirement, or they just made a so-called retirement pension without pay, they normally keep working and de facto thaw it and update it until maybe sometime next year. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u199	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u200	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I shall inform Mr Juchelka, through you, of what is actually meant by the quasi-benefit. Of course, he doesn't count to the total pension price and valorization will run from the normal price. It's simple, and I understand why it's designed there. However, Minister, one question for you. I quite understand some system of abuse of early pensions and so on. I'm asking you two questions. The first thing is, why are we jumping from five years to three years one time? Why don't we break it down after six months, like retirement? That's my first question. And the second question, if we want to prevent it, there are other mechanisms, for example, that person is employed, he is not at risk of quitting his job, he is not at the Labor Office in the long term, he does not have health problems that warrant him to retire. This, too, would be a solution, but you'd have to talk to us. And I'm not saying it would work out that way, but in any case, solutions and looks from another side are a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u201	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u202	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. There is still one question in the air that my colleague Roman Kubíček has now mentioned, that is, why is there really no time distance, especially towards the penalizations and the reduction from five to three years? I was just talking on the subject, I already called it indirect retroactivity in the sense that it already applies to people who would already actively use it next year, and suddenly the rules will change for them. So I was gonna ask you why it's just not going to be this one step at a time. Otherwise, with the donation or the addition, what do you call it... I understand the design, I'm just saying that it does, of course, and it feels like that person doesn't have the right to do it, like it's something defined outside of retirement. Do you understand? Like it's not part of the retirement, but it's actually kind of sideways. And it's a legitimate debate about the relationship between merit and solidarity. Let's talk about it. Maybe I can even differ with some colleagues in my own club, because I think it's very solidarity with us. I even remember that the Constitutional Court has already decided in some way to balance it in favour of merit. So the argument in this one doesn't seem to fit me from this point of view. So thank you for these extras... or extras, I've had them before, for these answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u203	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u204	The point is, we're actually changing the concept of a form of support within an extraordinary valorization. So far, the percentage, purely percentage, has increased the merit part, that is, to people with high pensions that did not fall so hard for inflation, we have added significantly more in nominal terms than those with average and below average. And that's what we were talking about here last year, and this February, and in March, we were discussing the change. As many of you have said, come do it differently, come support the lump sum more - say a lot of SPD representatives - these pensioners with lower below-average pensions, to which inflation hits very hard. That's why we've changed the design and we're saying that we're going to reflect 60 percent of the value of price growth here for that year, but we're going to divide it by 30 percent of this value is going to be a fixed amount for all of us to support really more solidly, i.e. people with low pensions, and 30 percent is going to increase the merit percentage. So it will behave in a different way than it is now, and at the same time it will not permanently increase the pension, when the increase in extraordinary valorisation will then be confirmed in the proper one, and you are already creating the principle of snowball when you increase those above average and high pensions. This is a fundamental difference in modeling this tool. And it's gonna be automatic, no one's gonna have to ask for anything. And then the regime is simplified by the fact that last year we had an extraordinary valorisation of two, which means a huge strain on the Czech administration, when we calculate that this construction would actually work once a year - the extraordinary contribution if the situation occurs, and the first January full standard valorisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u205	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Juchelka's turn to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u206	Yes, yes, I understand, of course, the Minister. But we have some kind of old-age pension construct that consists of the basic part and, of course, the percentage part. The question is, what kind of pension is it? What's the low pension? In what way will we ensure that we increase pensions to all equally, of course? I understand that scissors are opening up here, but it's all just a matter of inflation and that this government hasn't done anything to it. It's not the seniors' fault. Here it's still like the rhetoric that old people came up with something that wasn't right. But the consumer price index simply grew dizzy as well. After all, everything, including food, their lives, their energy, their rents, their fuel. And the question still seems to be where the fairness is. Because the Constitutional Court also gave us some boundaries from the point of view of basic terms and from the point of view of the percentage measure, of course. And if we change that at this point in terms of extraordinary valorizations, and I completely understand you because that's exactly what we philosophically disagree on - we disagree that at this point, you're only doing one thing, and that's that you told old-age pensioners, you're here through this, even if there's high inflation, you're going to pay something for the state budget. Because if it were the way you say it was, Minister, that it would be all about inflation in proper valuations, then of course we wouldn't have to change the mechanism, and we could only change some parametric changes in the extraordinary valorizations so the scissors would be less open. But you're making it exactly 30 percent of the quasi-social benefit that you don't take into account from the point of view of inflation into proper valorization.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u207	Thank you for keeping time. Now with a point of fact, Minister Jurečka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u208	I'll try to take it another way. The person concerned is entitled to an old-age pension. On January 1st of each year, there will be valorisation. If conditions are met, if inflation growth is, if real wage growth is, then every 1 January, on the basis of the previous 12 months since the previous valuation, the pension will be fully assessed on inflation and one third of the growth in real wages, and the basic rate will be revised according to average wage developments. That'll always be true. [[20.20 hours]] If, over the course of the year, inflation increases significantly by going beyond 5% after those few months, the exceptional contribution is made, which is quasi-social, but which does not affect the calculation of the valorisation of the next 1 January, because the period of the 12 months will always be assessed. So it's going to be fairer to these people, more fairly than the system that has been so far, which has caused the income to people with high and above-average pensions to rise significantly rapidly than those with low and below-average. And this needs to be realized that this is the change that this proposal brings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u209	Thank you, too, and we are going back to the debate. It is Mrs Knechtová's turn. I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Wenzl Milan apologizes from 20 o'clock for health reasons. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u210	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Members, Mr Minister, since much has already been said about this, I would return to the views of our citizens that we are deciding on here. Not only does an elderly person care about this amendment on pension insurance. Citizens are concerned about how they will live, how they will take care of them when they cannot. It solves the sense of insecurity, injustice and disappointment. Judge for yourselves. I quote from the senior lady's letter: "Dear Member, I am one of those who are very concerned about the situation and have led me to address you personally as an elected representative of citizens. I come from a small village in Vysočina, where there are about 100 of us. People who are now in old-age pensions often had physically demanding manual work in agriculture, poultry, pigs, cows, or as workers in the belt, bricklayers, miners. So they are wear and tear at their age, without any possibility of working or making extra money. Their profession was necessary for the operation of the state, because they formed values, they also supplied their work to cities to make food available, for example, often for very low or minimal wages, from which they still supported their children, i.e. they couldn't save millions for old age, they just didn't have anything to do with it. Their pensions are now far from average. The usual amount for people I know is 10 to 13,000 crowns. This will greatly reduce these people's energy and prices of basic needs, which are still increasing. Many will not have more than 100 crowns for the day. Would you be able to live with that income if you couldn't earn more money? I think that the government is in a completely different light in this regard and cannot imagine such an emergency at all. But to set an example from my region. In the middle of December 2002, after the opening ceremony of the new kitchen in Jihlava Hospital, lunch menu was offered for CZK 65 in the middle of December 2002. Finally, those who retire after deduction of the necessary expenses of an average of CZK 80 to 150 per day could afford at least one hot meal a day. But not even after a few weeks, prices went up to double, i.e. 130 crowns. In shops they often cannot take advantage of discount events dependent on apps on smartphones, so even here expenditures are gradually beyond their power. If we take too little of what is to come up with an extraordinary valuation, they will either live because they are accustomed to living modestly and not to bother or become dependent on social benefits. And is he ready for this state? That they will save on extraordinary valorisation and pensions, but will increase the number of beneficiaries of housing contributions and so on? Or will we also learn that the government was not counting on the contributions and increases of the applicants? Another question is, if pensioners are even more forced to save for example on the quality of food, won't it cost the state eventually, when these people are even more physically devastated, so they end up in hospitals or retirement homes? And here we are again wondering, do we even have seats in senior homes? In which, logically, this care is far more demanding financially. Did the government even think about it in their proposal? Pensioners simply cannot change jobs for a new and better paid one, they have already done their state. It may also happen that they will be much more dependent on loans that subsequently cannot repay and end up in a debt trap. I'm certainly not the only one who's worried about these questions. Thank you for your attention. As our elected representatives, I believe you are aware of the difficult situation of every citizen. I understand that changes are needed, this time puts the Republic to the test, but I'm sure the poorest shouldn't be the first to get hurt. I do not doubt, of course, that the average and higher than the average pension is now at a good level, but the average is the average. I'm sure you know the term "chicken" when two people each have half a chicken, but one of them eats it whole, and the other has nothing. In this respect, I can commend the government's idea of increasing the basic pension component to help those with the lowest pensions, but that is unfortunately all. The rest is chaos and amoral progress on how to step up against everything - opposition, current law and citizens' opinion, I would say. I will no longer speak of the fact that even greater hatred between generations has been unleashed by this proposal. This is the result of these inconsistent and chaotic screams into the dark and changes, when something will be approved, just so that it will soon start to change again. Please try to imagine how you would live today if you could, if you were retired, and then vote for your conscience and love for your parents and grandparents. Old people, not by their own fault, have become hostages in today's turbulent times of high energy prices and all life costs. However, they cannot help themselves in most cases compared to a healthy and younger population. Thank you for your attention and have a good day." And I will add another opinion from the nurse, who is 47 years old: "Dear Member, these steps by the Czech Government fundamentally threaten the dignified lives of people who have worked their whole lives, their health and quality of life. Social reconciliation is also in serious danger. There must be other solutions to ensure a sustainable pension system than merely reducing the amount of pensions and increasing the retirement age. This may, for example, be an improvement in conditions for people who work in physically demanding professions. The government should focus on finding other sources of funding for the pension system, which will not just come out of employees' pockets." End of quote. And I ask, what else is this government planning to take from seniors? So I thought and quote from the letter from the chair of the association Senior of the South Moravian Region, which currently brings together 2,500 seniors: "In the interest of these and I suppose other seniors I would like to comment on the decision of the government on pension insurance. 14 days 6. 2023 The government decided to withdraw the State contribution to pension savings to all those receiving an old-age pension with effect from 1. 1. 2024. This change is seen by the elderly as another discriminatory action against people of retirement age. The government's argument that if seniors can save, they don't need support is very distorted and untrue. If the average length of receiving old-age pensions is over 20 years, it is likely that the younger seniors are still trying to make a financial reserve for a period when they will no longer be able to make any extra money for health reasons. Their separation from a group of persons supported by the State cannot be considered fair and is yet another step towards the division of the company. Will this measure be of such great benefit to the reduction of the state budget deficit to compensate for the disappointment of hundreds of thousands of seniors who, in this form, have tried to provide sufficient funding for the last phase of life? Also, please consider a way of addressing the state's financial situation, where you set an example for your grandsons how to proceed when they control the state." Ladies and gentlemen, if you have listened carefully to me, it is clear to you that our seniors really do not live in prosperity, turn every crown and think honestly about their finances. He thinks about how to stand up in this turbulent time, how to secure himself and how to live in some way. There is even a feeling of guilt that the seniors are responsible for something, preferably for the unhappy situation in the state budget. [[20.30 hours]] I think we're messing with fire, and we shouldn't treat this society of ours that's worked our whole lives to do it... and we should take care of them in our old age. We should see their needs and be kind to them. Please reconsider your steps. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u211	Thank you. And with a point of fact, Minister Jurečka is registered. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u212	I'll take the liberty of reacting to that, because I think it takes some concrete facts to be perceived here. In any of our surrounding countries, pensions did not grow at the rate that they did in the Czech Republic. When we look at the development, in about that year and a half - the growth of pensions in the Czech Republic by 30 percent. The structure of the pensions I was talking about is the most balanced, there is no situation such as in Germany or Austria, where low pensions are much more numerous than in our country, and then we are growing - in Germany, Austria - above significantly high pensions. When we look at it in specific numbers, we are today - now, at this point - on the average pension of CZK 20,216. When we look at Slovakia, there is an average pension of more than 5,000 crowns lower. When we look in Poland, there is an average pension of approximately 12,000 crowns. As I mentioned here, when we look at Germany, pensions are taxed and social security paid. From 1 January, education is valid, which has dramatically helped women who have had statistically clearly lower pensions than men in the long term. We are preparing a pension option for demanding professions so that they can leave early without shortening. The institute here now applies to the professions of paramedics and firefighters. So the concerns that the writer of this letter has named here are answered - there are clearly positive social solidarity aspects in the draft pension reform. More support for widowing, widowing pensions, the possibility of a shared common assessment base for retirement between spouses and partners, as appropriate, is being addressed. Again, it will help to make the pensions, say, fairer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u213	Mr Juchelka will now make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u214	Good evening, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Yes, of course, the pensions grew here because the extraordinary valorisations that are linked to inflation were the third highest, third highest inflation in the European Union in the long term. This government did not address inflation, so pensions grew in this way. Don't tell people and citizens here on camera that when they go to Poland for a long time - now they're cheaper in Germany and Austria - you've helped them here. I understand that for taxpayers' money, for the money of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you send letters to senior citizens for KDU-ČSL about how well you increased their pensions, but you just don't mention that there were very, very high prices for all of them... various commodities and that we had the highest, one of the highest inflations in the long term in the European Union, where there was a long time ago some average and we were very high above average. You were supposed to deal with inflation and energy prices, and not brag about how they increased by extraordinary valorizations, which is also your fault because you didn't solve inflation, pensions by a few thousand crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u215	He also wants to respond with a factual remark by Minister Jurečka, followed by Mr Foldyna. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u216	Thank you. I want to respond to Mr Juchelka's colleague. I'm going back to the description of how proper valorization works. Proper valorisation would ensure the same growth if inflation were here in the future. This is not because extraordinary valorisation is shut down, it is converted into an extraordinary contribution that this growth would not occur in the future. If inflation were to rise, the pensions would grow exactly the same year-on-year thanks to proper valorisation. I've been describing it, explaining it, suggesting you read the reason report where the mechanism is described. And I point out that if we look in Poland, in the last two months, inflation has stopped, the growth, even one month has fallen, we'll see Thursday, we'll see more data, unlike Poland, where our inflation is still growing. We also need to look at what is provided in terms of ensuring the quality of life of seniors within the health system and within the social system, where support from the state is expanding, increasing, and investing in ensuring that seniors' lives are of good quality even in these planes. The quality of life of seniors is not only dependent on the amount of pensions, but from the level of supply and quality of other services such as social services, which are provided in the natural environment of the client, in his home, or what the quality of health care is - those are important aspects that we must look at from the point of view of the other things. I cannot agree that all the seniors would have said what the lady of the letter quoted here a moment ago. I meet a number of seniors who tell me - it's right that you think about the future, and we consider it important that our children and our grandchildren be remembered as well. This is what many people I meet tell me, many of them write it to me, and many of them write it to commentaries, such as on social networks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u217	Mr Foldyna will now speak, followed by Mr Feranec with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u218	Thank you. I believe that... or I would like to think that too many pensioners prefer not to watch this TV, what we are doing here, and that the Minister of Social Affairs is arguing as he is arguing here - he is talking about the growth of pensions and he is unable to judge that we are the third in Europe with inflation rates, that is, the real prices that the pensioner receives for that crippled pension in this country is forced to pay. That means the real impact on the elderly is much bigger. You're arguing some percent and so on, but in life you're not able to put yourself in the position of people who are 70 or more years old who have worked in the past years of this country, and you're arguing here with a completely odd ratio of how money was added. Money was added and real prices were rising, destroying the Czech pensioner and destroying the situation in a number of families because it is reflected in their offspring and so on. So, Minister, try to join the common people sometime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u219	The following is Mr Feranec with a factual remark and Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what the Minister said that pensions grow most in our country. Minister, through Madam President, how much did pensions go beyond legal valorisation? How much? [[A voice from the diaper.]] Not zero, unfortunately, it's not zero, it's minus 1,000 crowns. [[Was it?]] That's the retroactive... that's not a change of heart. [[by]] So don't tell me how they deserved it. [[Are you?]] They grew less than CZK 1,000 above the previously approved laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u221	Mr Juchelka, followed by Mrs Peštová with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u222	Thank you. Minister, you always have that magical quality to say, and never to say, "B." You're saying how pensions grew, you're going to get social services and health care involved. Social services and a small amendment to the Social Services Act are yet to come to us. And I can say that it's not a nice reading much, because that's where you bailed on the care allowance for other levels besides the first one, and, of course, you did make some kind of grant title that just divides the disabled. So I wouldn't be talking about social services right now. But when we say B-- and that's inflation, that's real price growth, that's a consumer basket that, if you look at it, and if you look really really at the parking lot in our country just across the border in Poland in front of Biedronka, you'll see a whole range of Czech brands and cars that buy there because it's cheaper. [[20.40 hours]] And, of course, there are seniors, even seniors, who turn every crown. The fact that they got money for extraordinary valorisation just because inflation was growing and that they really got it all about inflation, yes, I don't doubt that it's the only group of people that got it that way, so of course it's the group that can't earn another job. I mean, that's what social peace is all about. So don't always say that, and, say that b, because in the same spirit, the exact letters you write to the seniors and where you de facto inflate their head completely for nothing, because it's never b.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u223	Now, Mrs Peštová, this is Mrs Knechtová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u224	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would also like to respond to the Minister through you. I don't know what kind of people you've been talking to or who you come into contact with. Anyway, I'm meeting people who can't reach the 20,000. I was just looking, it's true, until the statistics of 2021, and then when you look at the numbers that are below the 20,000, I'm just saying in a quick sum, they seem higher than the ones that are above 20,000 and they're lifting your average. So I'm saying, in our neighborhood, or at least in the area around Usti County, where I'm from, these people aren't really gonna touch the 20,000 on average. I didn't do that kind of poll, but I put some kind of post on Facebook where I wanted to see the reaction of those people, and I can tell you that it wasn't a good read, what they were writing, because they themselves confirmed where the 20,000 came from, because they don't have the 20,000 at all. And, of course, at prices, as they are now rising, I'm not actually saying that they're living, but they're living from retirement to retirement, if I take it that way, because they're already over 70 and higher, and like I'm saying, at the moment, it's gotten into this situation that those pensioners are almost ashamed that they're getting that pension. 'Cause I'm saying, the heists and the different passwords, the pronunciating passwords that fly around here, they're actually putting the two generations against each other. So you have to cut back, you've actually worked your whole life, you've spent your whole life dragging yourself into the system, but now you have to cut back so those young people can get their pensions out of what they'll get in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u225	The following is Mrs Knechtová with a point of fact and then Minister Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u226	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure thank you for your performance. I just want to point out, basically, to follow up on my colleague Peštová. There are seniors who, when I ask when they were working, they're like college teachers, and they, of course, have a pension of over 20,000, and they're good enough to support social services or save money. But then there are really men who have worked in uranium mines, we have a large railway body, where there are a lot of men who have really worked out there their whole lives, and they really have that pension somewhere else. And if I take the people of agriculture with us, then we're really at that limit of 10 to 13,000, and I also see no other way to help them more or less. And then when I compare how these seniors are willing or able to spend their time, I say some free time, then, of course, they're wondering if they're going to go swimming, or if they're going to pay for a lecture, and we're just trying to help them out and support them in some way in community policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u227	Mr Jurečka will now speak with a factual remark, followed by Mr Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u228	To be understood. I'm not even questioning the fact that there's a certain group of pensioners who are in a difficult situation. Especially those who have been alone all their lives and are now in need of a lifetime of old age are not widowers or widows, that their situation is really very difficult. But then there is also a social system that, under the guarantee of the housing allowance, can cover that person's guarantee that he will not give more than 30 percent of his income for his housing costs. And this has been significantly improved by last year's adjustments on the elderly. There was a big problem with pensioners who live in large cities in larger apartments. And we responded to that as a government, and the average housing allowance today is CZK 5,700 a month. And I just want to point out that when we look at the structure of the amount of pensions, I understand that I showed it here last time on the big graph, it was better to see it, but it was actually data that was before June this year, when the most frequently received pension was CZK 21,000. The second most frequently received pension was CZK 20,000, and the third most frequent pension received was CZK 22,000. Now it's moved a little bit further in June. In principle, let's say 80 per cent of the pension received in the Czech Republic is moving somewhere between 18 and 23 000 crowns. Yes, I don't doubt at all that there are people who have that pension somewhere under 15,000 crowns, when they are alone, it's a difficult situation for them. By the way, we are responding to this by changing the pension system in pension reform by increasing the basic salary, which will correspond not to 10 per cent of the average wage and plus CZK 770, but will correspond to the sum of 20 per cent of the average wage, so that we can better secure and support these people as well. And then there were the mentioned moms, the women. But in those cases, the situation has also shifted significantly thanks to the training after 1 January. This is clearly acknowledged positively by many of them. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u229	Mr Mašek, followed by Mrs Peštová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u230	Madam President, colleagues. Minister, on Monday, I had a practical doctor in an ambulance, a 40-year-old partial disability pensioner trying to work. He's working on a.08 at the gate. He's got it, he wants to work, he wants to make a living. It was unfortunate that in the meantime, when prices were changing and when your government failed to manage the increase in energy prices, she moved and the provider or supplier, the distributor of these services could not provide her with energy at a normal price. Now she's got an additional CZK 40,000. I was investigating this woman for entering another job, when she's going to clean up on Saturdays and Sundays, and she wants to make her own money. She doesn't want to beg anywhere, be grateful to anyone. And I'd like to say that there are a lot of people like that who just don't come to you to beg for it and try to make it. So I wouldn't simplify it, that we have it all watered up by the sun, that everything will work out, that contribution to living and so on. But a lot of these people want to earn their own jobs, it's a fundamental motivation for them and they feel like they're valid members of society, but they should make money from that work and we shouldn't get them into these situations with our bad political decisions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u231	Mrs Peštová follows, Mrs Hanzlíková will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u232	Thank you for the floor. I don't think it's gonna be two minutes. I would like to respond to the Minister once more. You know, Minister, it's for the elderly, it's basically a disgrace. They've worked their whole lives to get a welfare allowance for living. So they've been working their whole lives, taking money into the system, and then they're gonna have to go to their old knees -- it's not really begging, but they're basically taking it for the next dose to live normally. This isn't normal. They just take it completely different, it's an old generation. It's a generation that still lives in these fantasies: What people would say and all that. And now they're getting into a situation where they're being looked at, that they're actually taking something away from the young ones. So they're getting into these depressions. I just got a story on my e-mail, too. It's nothing funny. The gentleman wrote to me that his friend's mother was so afraid to go out because she was so dehonested, she was over 70 years old, and it ended with her leg being taken from her now because she was unable to come out. But that's because it's rolling around, and they actually feel responsible for where it's going. It's just hard stories for them. Just like it's for a lot of people who have had conavir and are in some kind of depression and are on antidepressants because they have to be treated because they have the post-covide consequences, these older people have to be treated in a completely different way. So I'm saying, for them, it's a situation where basically they're going to beg for something they thought would never happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u233	Mrs Hanzlíková, this is Mr Hendrych. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u234	Thank you for the floor. I would just complement my colleague and respond to the figures that the Minister said. I looked at the figures from the end of 2022 and there about 600,000 seniors receive a pension above 20,000. It certainly hasn't gotten that big in six months. And I want to remind you, we're forgetting about disabled pensioners, where the pensions were so extremely low that, despite all the memorizations in 2022, they reach a maximum of 15, or I mean an average of 15,000. You can't really live with 15,000! And I'd like to say, what's the logic of saying that we're going to lower our pensions and at the same time we're going to help these people get a welfare benefit? Mr. Secretary, it's still coming from your budget. And we're just putting these people in stressful situations, and the seniors are really sensitive about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u235	Mr Hendrych followed by Minister Jurečka with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u236	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I'd like to respond to the Minister, the way he was talking about the high-income and low-income seniors a while ago. I found a publication of Seniors in the Czech Republic in the data published by the Czech Statistical Office and unfortunately there are data for 2020 and 2021. It is quite illustrated here that the proportion of people at risk of income poverty in selected types of households fell in total in 2021 from 2022 to 8.9 or 8.6 of the population, but in individuals over 65 years it fell from 37.4 to 27.8. For God's sake, it's a 10% reduction in the threat to income poverty in this category of people over 65 years of age. It was because of the interpretation I have here before me, just by raising the pensions that took place here in those years. I suppose the year 2022 was even better, and the number at risk of income poverty in the category over 65 years was even lower. And as for your alleged housing contributions and so on, we know that it almost doubled, but we also know that by far not everyone is still coming for them. That is a bare fact, and it is the stigmatisation that my colleagues have been talking about, and also very often the fact that they can reach the social benefit in quotation marks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u237	The Minister Jurečka will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u238	Thank you. I wasn't talking about anything that's sunny. I have made it clear here that there are people who are in a difficult situation, I have said to the type that groups of people are most often in this difficult situation. I also said that we responded to this both with education, and we respond to this in the draft pension reform, as well as by changing the increase in the basic statement, by changing the parameters for widowing pensions, because very often widows and widowers are in the difficult situation, because they are alone in the household, then they have one income, which is then significantly lower than the sum of the two pensions. So I made it clear that there are problematic things that need to be dealt with, and we're also dealing with them. And just the numbers so we don't manipulate the facts here. It here to say data sometime from the beginning of 2022 and now, there is a significant difference. So just to say, for those people who have a pension of over CZK 20,000, it's more than 1.4 million people, it's not 600,000. More than 1.4 million people since the beginning of this year. It's the numbers. And then I also want to add, I wasn't talking about it being something that should, say, replace the pension system here, but we have situations where the social system is simply to cover the situation of a person at different stages of age, when he really needs his income, his family income or his old age situation needs some special support, so that the system is here. And then let's also say, which are the most common low pensions? When you talk about it statistically, look at the data, into those yearbooks, they are mostly people who have not had full insurance periods, or had frequent interruptions, stays at the employment offices, then they are groups of people who have long been self-employed with minimum remuneration, then they are people who have long been on parental and maternity leave - that is clearly what we are dealing with in this proposal, or those who have been caring for a person close to us, and that is what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u239	Time! We are now returning to the general debate. Before I give the floor to Mr Síla, one more apology. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing since 20.45 for family reasons. Mr Síla will now appear, followed by Mr Mašek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u240	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of this situation where I have the opportunity to address you, Minister. I just wanted to ask, I was thinking, the time that was going on here for three days and two nights, some arguing or trying to push for restrictions on the original valorization, the extraordinary valorization of pensions, I noticed that you were practically the only one here. You were defending this unpopular novel here, and there was virtually no one from the ODS, of course - neither Minister Stanjura nor Prime Minister. You yourself fought here like a tiger for this novel, which you eventually managed to enforce, but I wondered why you just put the sum of 400 crowns in the solidarity section and 2,3% for the merit part. That caught my eye, and I was wondering, why such a sum? And so when I counted the pensioners and multiplied it by these numbers here, I found out that it was 19 billion, and the 19 billion at the same time made the total sum that you sought or had already managed to enforce, the 500 crowns of education for a raised child for a mother-dweller. So I was thinking, that's interesting. That's one number of 19 billion - 19 billion combined, and so I thought about why it was all like that, and I found out that actually zero from zero is going to go, because on the one hand, you're, like, promoting your political flagship that KDU-ČSL has or you have, and that's a pro-family policy, which, of course, is commendable, and I'm behind it, but I was wondering why it was 19 billion and 19 billion. In the end, I found out that you actually argued that you gave the mothers 500 crowns per child, and when it finally came together, actually with the 1,000 crowns for those mothers who were supposed to get, for example, 1,500 for three raised children, and you actually took away the 1,000 crowns a month amendment by the end of the year, of course, so that the mother-wives had only 500 crowns for the third child, if I'm not mistaken. I think the thought, I thought so, it's not a conspiracy, it's I've been thinking about it myself, and I wanted to ask you if it really was, and if it was so that you just got it out of the government as an order that yes, make your contribution to raising children as seniors, you'll have a political argument on the one hand, but on the other hand, you'll take it in a different way, here the 400 crowns plus 2,3%, and it'll actually be a shul zero. Well, I'd like to ask you if you could tell me what you think. And otherwise I'd like to say a few words about the pension reform, actually, to look at the pension reform from a completely different angle, because all the arguments and numbers have already been made here, and so on, it all works out that there's nothing to talk about. Many people rejoice in the statistics that we live longer, as was common in the past, but so - called life in health is a completely different category. It can be said that living in health is 61 and 62 years of age for men and women. So in this reform, to appeal to the increasing age of people, that is, in my opinion, dubious. According to Eurostat, the average life expectancy for men is 76 years and 82 years for women. That is, when we compare that men 15 years and women 20 years, the last 20 years of their lives actually live in sickness, pain, suffering, dating doctors, and so on. [[21.00 hours]] This is a very serious argument, because I believe that this argument or this criterion or this factor is not in your planned pension reform so-called. At all, consider it. And I would also like to know what you think about it, or if your experts are thinking about it and they just have this problem figured out here, how it's going to be, how it's going to be done here. The real reform of pensions, which will prevent the pension system from being in a deficit of 5% of GDP around 2050, is CZK 300 billion in today's prices, as the current projections and calculations show, long-term for decades acceptable by parties across the spectrum and the population of this country represent a solution to complex follow-up problems that I feel your government not only does not understand, because it does not mention this, but does not attempt to understand, because it is not capable of such extensive sophisticated work. In order to really consolidate public finances or at least stop the exponential growth of the state budget deficit, it is necessary to intervene in the whole social model concerning not only the Ministry of Finance, but also work, social affairs, but mainly so-called. Healthy social boundaries. This comprehensive system change requires the systematic and massive involvement of the scientific community of non-partisan experts and, last but not least, the cooperation of the opposition. If the reform or the pension changes are to have a long-term effect. We are going to focus on the proposed reform of old-age pensions, because the reform of the largest part of the mandatorial expenditures constituting systemic debt has shrunk into changing several parameters, nothing more. I would like to say, like, another parameter that your reform doesn't even talk about, and that's an addiction to living on a job assignment. You, I know that you're planning to bring in some sort of reform in the fall, which will involve employment classification, as it once was, that there were categories and so on, but I think it should be this problem here, or this factor should be taken into account substantially more, and it should somehow be incorporated more intensively into the whole reform. Because I have looked up several studies on this topic, the difference between genders, the so-called life science, and there it occurs, for example in a Spanish study it occurs that the difference between managerial and routine work, that is, physical work, is 10 years in men and 11 years in women aged 50 and 70 is 8.7 years in men and 12.6 years in women. I don't know if... I also wonder if your experts, who are really giving you advice or helping you prepare this pension reform, take this factor into account. By which I mean that there is a fundamental problem between the length of life and not only the length of life, the survival in health between women and men, but especially between the so-called. blue collars and physically working people. They have also followed or studied this problem in Germany, where the results of the study are in terms of employment, their results have pointed to the seven-year difference between the lowest and highest positions. The difference was 40 years of age, at the age of 65 was greater in men than in women. In France, in a French study, there was also a difference that manual workers suffer from double disadvantages because they have the lowest and most unhealthy life expectancy for both sexes. In addition, women showed greater differences in health by profession, even though they recorded minor differences in the hope of survival. The European average of 2019, the study estimates life expectancy at the age of 50 to 75 years by occupational group, and has identified significant differences between higher and lower jobs. The biggest difference was found in Finland, where both men and women in higher professional groups could expect to be 75 percent of their remaining lives in good health, 47 percent in men and 50 percent in women in lower categories. So the difference is also 25, slowly 30 percent. In the United States and Britain, this is a 2020 study, they used professional groups to assess socio-economic inequalities in the hope of disability-free survival and concluded that in both countries people from the lowest professional group can expect to live 7 to 9 years less without disability than those in the highest group of 50 years of age. In Denmark, they studied employment differences in healthy life expectancy in 2020 and found the same practical conditions. The popular and age-specific mortality rate per job position has been calculated using a European recognised scale and is a random sample of approximately 1.2 million people, a Spanish study, which accounts for 4 percent of the Spanish population, and contains administrative information on individuals who either pay taxes or receive social benefits such as unemployment or old-age pensions. The data set has a longitudinal design, and contains extensive information about the working life of each individual. So the study was very intense, concrete, specifically about employment, unemployment, occupational category, public pensions, and the year of death, if he had already died. It was used by the international standard classification of the profession in its most up-to-date version, which is divided when I looked it up, to ten degrees. With us, so-called. classification of employment CS-ISCO, which has 1992 items, or here it is necessary stratification according to the burden of physical and mental work. Compared to the long-term wage growth in the years 10-22, it increased by 82 percent. Now I'm following up on my previous speakers. Old-age pensions increased by 57 percent at the same time, gross domestic product increased by 70 percent. It is clear how wage growth and wages advance the growth of the amount of pensions paid. If pension contributions are derived from the share of wage and salary, then the increase in pension contributions should copy wage and salary growth. Why is this different growth happening? Why the volume of pensions paid is increasing significantly slower than the wage and wages in the economy should be examined in particular. I think that the last three years, when there has been a sharp increase in pensions that have been linked to inflation, cannot be taken into account in long-term trends. About what was in our terms, or should be the level of this share, the studies remain silent and do not define where this border lies, but yet they know how otherwise it is the system, the current system of unsustainable. Due to the structure of retirement households' expenditure, most of their expenditure is taxed on VAT. Thus, it can be estimated that around 15 per cent of the amount of pensions goes back to the budget in the form of taxes. So it could be about 100 billion crowns. In essence, part of the pension is self-financed, respectively, or returned to another chapter of the state budget. But forecasting GDP developments over the next 30 to 50 years, that's ball divination, because the distant future has so many different possible variables that it's hardly possible to determine which of them is right. Moreover, no one is concerned either by the fact that it is not a homogeneous period, that there will undoubtedly be fluctuations of varying and so on. At the same time, even the problem of future inflation, which may rise, cannot be avoided by considering the evolution of the share of income in GDP. So the reliability of such reasoning is very debatable. This may not even matter if the authors of such reasoning were aware of the cross-compliance of such calculations and, at the same time, did not issue them as something that is future, irreversible, and it is a fact that is not subject to critical analysis and is something that cannot be discussed at all. [[21.10 hours]] Today, we are reading a variety of considerations about how much our future pensions would weigh in leaving the current method of valorisation. Those tens or even hundreds of billions barely have a real view of that view or from what I have just mentioned. [[background?]] Let's just make a little extrapolation of the current trends from 2015 to 2022. During this period, gross domestic product increased by 5,6% on average per year in current prices, wages and salaries by 6,7 per cent on average and pensions paid by 4,65 per year on average. If we project these figures, we extrapolate by 2030, and it really is only an extrapolation, i.e. a continuation of the trend so far, then GDP would reach 10 420 billion in 2030, wage and salary volumes of 3,850 billion and pensions paid 763 billion, i.e. the share of pensions per GDP would be 7.3 percent, as it is practically today. We can also choose other calculations. Even those will show that they are presented to us by politicians numbers that are partially tinkled. Their solution, which they propose is the easiest, because they are unable to defend tax collection and social insurance, because there are categories of future pensioners who pay only a minimum in the pension fund and rely on solidarity in the pension system. Similarly, these politicians are not able to reasonably address the expenditure of the state for certain expenses, and it is therefore the easiest thing for them to do to reduce the valorisation of pensions and defend it by doing so in the interests of our children for the future. These figures show how important it would be if there was an independent and relatively independent state pension office that could be a solid opponent to the various ideas that the current government is presenting. The Statistical Office published data on wage growth in 2022. The average wage reached CZK 40 353 this year and increased by 6.5 percent year on year. Real wages, however, decreased by 7,5 percent. If we project this to 2023, 2024, do we really think that real wages will continue to fall? That we're gonna record her decline this year, too? If some considerations on inflation growth are met by 8 to 9 per cent, then the real wage would fall by 2 to 3 per cent in the same growth as in 2022. According to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, inflation is expected to be next 2.3 percent in mid-year. However, this also means a reduction in purchasing capacity by at least one tenth compared to 2021, and that will be a lot. This will reach the standard of living of families in such a way that it will cause a social crisis. Compared to a similar situation in the early 1990s, there is certainly no determination to endure such a decline, and then there are no reserves in the family budgets as they were in the past, and after the current inflation that most families have actually paid for from savings. Will the economy grow in such a situation, or will the crisis develop? If the government does not fight inflation by all means available and allows this decline in the standard of living of all the population, then in autumn we will be witnessing a social crisis that can have very little predictable consequences. Moreover, the fact that in 2027 the emission allowance price will exceed the price of electricity generation in fossil power plants must be taken into account. That means those fossil power plants won't have any reason to continue operating their plants by 2027. This means, if they stop them, there will be a lack of electricity, the price will go up sharply and inflation will do so too. And it's pretty close by 2027. I therefore believe that wages will still have to be revised by the end of this year, allowing faster wage growth and wages. This will also create more resources to cover pensions. Just a change in the passive policy of idling to what is happening in the national economy is inevitable. The structural deficit of 200 billion and the valorisation of pensions is not the cause, because the structural deficit - practically valorising pensions - is a minimum part. This deficit came back from the tax refund. There is talk of abolishing the supergross wage, abolishing the property acquisition tax, which amounted to 18 billion, reducing VAT on accommodation services, where VAT is lower than on food, meal vouchers and so on. These are the mistakes of the government, from which the axe flows around CZK 200 billion. Another problem is unsolved inflation, which is reflected in the valuation schemes. The government has done nothing. She could have used the Price Act. It could use the competition authority to look at the margins of various traders. But the government didn't do any of that. That's how she got her expectations. Minister Stanjura probably thought inflation would bring increased revenue into his budget, so he let inflation run further. Pension reform is intended to address the proportion of the company's wealth to pensioners. It is about what wealth society will create in the future, which is essential, and by which mechanism it will then divide these resources intergenerationally. We must consider a future society that will be heavily digitized and robotised. This means that labour productivity will increase significantly. This cannot be ruled out in this dynamic time of technology development, but unfortunately it cannot be relied upon. The introduction of your new investment long-term pension saving product is supposedly a response to a warning about the unsustainableness of the domestic pension system. The system itself will continue to work, but the compensation ratio will gradually decrease, i.e. the share of the old-age pension in the last income from employment. From relatively lower pensions, it will become increasingly difficult to ensure a dignified standard of living for both the pension and health system. It will also increase the tax and levy burden of work in the future. This will negatively affect households' own ability to save on old age. Meanwhile, the need for own savings will grow dramatically over the next decades. When I save up, I also expect the state to add something to me. Then I need to know that the state must have what it takes. And where would he get the money? He has to take them away from another and give them to me. But the other one must have them. And how does the other guy get them so the state can take them away from him in taxes? Simply so that the economy is working like a Swiss watch and that the state itself is rationally managed. As Babišův's government easily distributed, especially for covido, as empty money poured into the economies here and in the world, as inflation rose deliberately, as the government of the Czech Republic became almost Ukrainian, it is clear to me that it cannot end well. I'm slowly starting to accept that I've experienced red socialism and that I'm still in pursuit of green communism. And every communism means lack and expense. Inflation-eating savings, and this cutting-off, that the state will no longer give it, and that's not what I think, is just the beginning of the legal economic development of zugrund. Communism doesn't matter about its color. So it's gonna happen to everyone sooner or later. But when we see Petr Fiala's government, which is mainly concerned about how to deliver weapons to Ukraine, sign a migration agreement, what kind of care is now required of the Istanbul Convention, we cannot expect anything special from it. High-income households that can afford to postpone more money, such as a long-term investment product, will naturally benefit more from tax advantages. Today, households that barely come out of their incomes live from hand to mouth, as they say, high tax deductions limits will not help much. Those who do not have enough money saved up for old age and at the same time have no family to take care of them will simply fall, as my previous speaker said here, into the social system and there will be pressure on the budget spending side. It is desirable to prevent this situation now and to process real pension reform. [[21.20 hours]] Speech to pensions as preparation - members of the government constantly repeat the mantra perfectly, that it will not be for pensions for citizens who worked honestly and did their part in the vast majority, while I have not once heard that it will not be for benefits for lifelong non-maqachenkos, various perpetrators and collectors of political functions and newsstands, political nonprofits who are entitled to anything free of charge and financial benefits as a bonus in our country. Whether it is pensions, health care, social security for the infirm or other public interest, there is constant debate on how to set up a system to function economically. The basic problem is the fact that about 40,000 children are born each year less than would guarantee a stable natural reproduction of our society. Fertility of at least 2.1 child per woman of child reproductive age is required for simple reproduction without increasing the population. Over the past 20 years, the average is 1.4 per woman of reproductive age. The extinction of contemporary European civilization is in an indirect way to improve living conditions across Europe, not just in our country. The current living conditions of young people should be analysed, enabling women to live and raise children, while being alone without a partner in relation to conditions in the past, when, for example, communists favored complete families. If we intend to raise the next generation, which should move the development of society again (about) a step further, it is a very laborious, demanding and complex discipline, as we all have children know, which requires often self-sacrificing from parents. Therefore, the absolutely absurd material security of this activity, possibly the rhetoric of governments about maternity leave, is so called. I don't know, every mother who raised one, two, three kids can't talk about vacation. Having kids isn't cheap either. Raising a child is climbing to a seven-digit amount only on finance. There are currently 10,5 million inhabitants in the Czech Republic. Assuming that we are born or that we are trying to have 150,000 children a year, we will maintain our current status and population. So we need 150,000 kids a year. Instead, today we are at about 110,000 newly born children. More specifically, in 2015, it was 110 000, 2014 - 109 000, 2013 - 106 000 born children. Between 2007 and 2010, when strong editions from the 1970s were born, we talked about a babyboom, but it was practically born up to 120,000 people at the most. Specifically, in 2007 it was 114, 2008 - 119, 2009 - 118 and 2010 - 117 000 children born. Since 1980 we have been in deficit because this year more than 150 children were born last. [[000]] It was 1980 - 153,800 newborn children. Over the last 20 years, we are then on average 102 500 children born a year, or about 30 percent of the children are missing each year. The fact that little children are born is beginning not only to catch up with us but to overtake us. The result is a pension account deficit, little labor from health to construction. We're talking about so-called pension reform, but the key to the solution is obvious. We have three options. Either we increase the natality of the 150,000 children a year - first. Second, the declining Čech will replace immigrants, which has been happening for many years, and thirdly, the Czech nation will simply die out and be replaced by another nation that is already somewhere looking for new pastures that it will find in our country. If Petr Fiala's government has just a little bit of patriotic feeling, it has to choose variant one. The other two mean the end of the Czech nation. It is necessary not only to make parametric changes to the current pension system, but, more importantly, to have a conceptual conversation about how to motivate young people to start families. And we're getting to a real national policy that we could talk about here for another hour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u241	With a point of fact, Mrs Adámková wants to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u242	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the comments that we have heard here are, of course, at the heart of the matter, and I did not ask my questions either at first reading or at second reading, for I expected the Minister to come armed with them and disarm us immediately by demonstrating this material. Of course, talking about retirement reform is nonsense. It's a wedge-whacking. But what I miss there and I miss very much is a serious sociodemographic analysis. Because we're talking about life in health and out of health and so on, which, of course, is all right. We're talking about the number of children or not children, that's okay again. And I would assume that the Ministry will respond immediately to a very good socio-demographic analysis with a financial impact in individual possibilities. Of course there are very erudized institutions that can do these analyses. There's no problem turning to them, so they just need to know and assume it. So I am very sorry that in this material, where we understand your motives, even if we disagree with them, because they are not for the good of this country, but I lack a really well-founded analysis here. Based on this analysis, you would save yourself a lot of our questions, and the Minister could answer very well. So if I am to consider this material to be perhaps useful to you, if I am to consider it to be really your effort to improve the situation, it is necessary to add it to the base in the original consideration, and that did not happen. So what I see here really isn't any material that can bring satisfaction for these answers and they're very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u243	Thank you for keeping time. We are going back to the general debate. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, one more apology. Minister Pavel Blažek apologizes for reasons of employment from 20:00. Now, then, Mr Mašek, Mrs Pošarová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u244	Well, good evening, everyone. Since I have had the opportunity to speak repeatedly in factual terms, I will reduce my contribution to the minimum, to reading the amendment to the microphone. For Minister Jurečka, this is an amendment, perhaps the only one that does not increase the costs of pensions paid against the government proposal and even partially reduces them cosmetically. This is a reduction in old-age pensions for some of the representatives of the Communist regime. This is Section 67 (d) when I is the text: "The provisions of this Title apply to representatives of the Communist regime, which for the purposes of this Act are regarded as insured persons who, between 25 February 1948 and 17 November 1989, were a) a member or candidate of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia or the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovakia." Here would follow the comma and text: "or the Czechoslovak party of the people, comma, or the Czechoslovak party of the socialist. Za (b) Head of Secretary of Regional, District or District Committees of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia or Communist Party of Czechoslovakia." Here would follow the comma "or the Czechoslovak party of the people, comma, or the Czechoslovak party of the socialist". Also the justification for my proposal - we have discussed this here and I have anonced in these discussions that I will propose this in the future. I consider it - the whole proposal that came into the law after 30 years - not entirely meaningful. But if we want to have fun to be objective, to make it fair, and if we put it into that law, then let us remember that there was a so-called National Front, and within the National Front, the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, the Czechoslovak People's Party and the Czechoslovak Socialist Party, the exponents of these parties worked closely together and were the backbone of the past system. So that is a short justification and, of course, I will apply to this proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u245	Thank you. Mrs Pošarová, who has now signed up. I'm gonna load another apology before he gets here. Minister Austrian apologizes from 21:30 to 22:00 for business reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u246	Thank you for the floor, President-in-Office. At the beginning of my speech, I consider it important to remind, repeat and stress that pensions are not a gift from a worthy state to ungrateful citizens, nor any social contribution from the welfare of government authorities, as the current government and its economic advisors sometimes present for the interests of foreign banks and corporations. They are insurance benefits of their kind, since a senior citizen, if he lives on average for a long time, will never get back from pensions what he put into the pension scheme at the time of his work. Not to mention how much money he put into raising children if he had them. I am not even talking about the part of the social contributions paid by employers. Politicians, therefore, cannot do whatever they want with pension money from the nature of things. It is not their money either, and above all, it is not classic taxes, whose allocation is unaddressed and may not be equivalent, so it may not correspond to what the taxpayer has done to the system and has returned directly to it. Let me give you an interesting number. In 1990 the average old-age pension was CZK 1,763 and the average gross wage was CZK 3,286. Thus, the average pension at that time represented 53 percent of the average gross wage. Thus, it was higher than it is due, in particular, to unmanageable inflation today, when the Fialův Government claims that it is too high and plans to reduce it significantly in the coming years by various antisocial adjustments, such as the one currently under discussion at the second reading. The government talks very often about the so-called pension account and its high balance. At the same time - and this applies to all previous governments - this account, consisting of the income side of the selected pension insurance and on the expenditure side of the paid pensions, refuses to de facto separate from the state budget. This situation is being abused by the current government in order to claim that pensions and pensioners are precisely indebted to the state, our children and our future, so pensions must be reduced and reduced. It's goddamn hypocrisy. The pension account is not a full account, it is only a virtual account or rather a subaccount. If it were a real account or a budget fund, it would also have to be managed separately and would have to be able to conduct controlled financial operations and to record the proceeds of these operations. Rather, it can be assumed that funds in the so-called fictitious pension insurance account are used during the year for short-term operations in favour of liquidity of other state budget accounts and sub-accounts. For the Ministry of Finance, this pension account is a relatively comfortable source of liquidity needed to cover all kinds of fast spending. If it didn't, it would have to use expensive commercial short-term loans even more often. Income from social, i.e. pension, insurance accounts for about a third of the total revenue of the state budget and is also the most stable income. It is therefore entirely legitimate to require that this still fictional pension account become a standard separate account with everything it entails. This should, by the way, be one of the main topics of the debate on large pension reform. This is the debate we have and we need to have in detail and seriously in relation to the pension system. Not as the government does, sneaking around stealing from all pension recipients while bending the laws and constitutions as they are right now. Separate pension funding would make the management of selected pension insurance funds more transparent, allow their standard administration and possible evaluation and prevent the creation of various myths and manipulations. This would also enable the creation of genuine individual pension accounts of citizens, where each pensioner would have an ongoing overview of his future pension, which would probably be the best incentive to further ensure their old age and voluntary increase in contributions. For example, I am talking about the issue of the self-righteous. In the era of electronic records and data boxes, each person should be able to continuously monitor his current pension claim with an estimate of the amount of his pension for the next years while maintaining his current income and to have an overview of the current period of retirement provision. There are countries in the European Union that have it. This would prevent huge problems in applying for thousands of people's pensions, who suddenly find that they are short of several years into the statutory period required for pension insurance and can no longer trace it. This would once again be an important step to support this, eternal and motivational, lightening the welfare system, and helping specific people. It would save many specific human destinies. Let's do this. There is no reason for the government to come up with a flat-rate reduction of pensions for the second time this year at a time when tens of thousands of pensioners fall into income poverty each month. On the contrary, what needs to be done is fundamental legislation that will strengthen the future income of the pension system, which will mainly take into account the proper upbringing of children, future pension and tax payers. In fact, the current pension system does not distinguish between payers and severely disadvantage families raising children who are future contributors to the pension system because, in addition to insurance contributions, these parents spend millions of crowns on raising their children, unlike other insurance payers. Thus, the ongoing pension scheme is in fact financed from two, not just one source. The first source is classic social security. The second hidden but equally indispensable source is the financial and personal investment of parents in raising a new generation of pension insurance payers. Taking into account this fundamental principle in government pension proposals is lacking in the proposal, and according to qualified estimates it is worth raising a child under 18 years in a minimum variant of CZK 1.5 million. But the Fialův government not only does it not make any pro-family policy, but has promoted its approach to a higher level and is already doing a straight anti-family policy. For example, by going to cancel a tax discount in its package, called kindergarten fees, and significantly restricting family access to a discount on a wife or husband caring for a young child. Something similar is true about the government's approach to valorizing pensions. The key is to remove the defects in their settings, when the current adjustment of valorisation to calculate pensions creates undesirable jump changes, because in the system there is a lack of valorization in the form of indexing income from past years and valorization of already measured pensions. This is the case with paradoxes when the pension of the same person is higher than if it had been measured later. But instead, the government is going straight to reduce proper valuations, to completely abolish extraordinary valuations, and to significantly limit the valorisation of early retirement. The current government guarantee often also talks about saving more for pensions in the so-called third pillar, but at the same time it intends to tighten the conditions of this savings and its state support. In general, there is no rational reason why they should be forced to save in addition to standard pension insurance contributions as well as parents of children, especially parents of two or more children. For those, the ongoing pension system should provide decent and dignified pensions completely automatically. Demanding them to save more commercially, draining the funds needed to raise children, and secondaryly contributing to the decline in birth rate. Parents' pension savings go directly against the principle of an ongoing pension scheme. About 95 percent of current pension payments now come from the state's ongoing pillar. He will play prim in the future. However, in order to maintain and strengthen the ratio of pensions to wages and salaries, the role of the third voluntary savings pension pillar must increase significantly. However, the absolute dominant role in the pension system will be and must play an ongoing state pillar. Its strength and sustainability depend on several main factors - the amount of pensions, retirement age and insurance contributions for workers, but equally strongly or perhaps more strongly on the level of inflation, employment rates and wage levels. An important parameter of the pension scheme is also the number of years worked, i.e. the period of pension insurance, not just the age of retirement, which we fundamentally refuse to raise. Let's look at the education system, the length of study, the delays in entering primary school. All of this means an unforced loss of working years and losses in the income of the pension system. Let us solve this and leave the current pensioners who have long worked off their own, their real pensions are the fault of Fialův's inflation and the costs of very low and five demolition squads want to further reduce them today's proposal. [[21.40 hours]] Let us also address the very low employment of women, which is due to the inaccessibility of pre-school services and part-time jobs. Working within more than 65 years is not even really possible. Among other things, because we have a large representation of demanding industrial work and the health of people in the pre-accession age is worse than in Western Europe. Pension reform must therefore also be a health reform. For example, there is a need for greater motivation for health prevention, which can also be attended by employers. Let us correct our ongoing system, remove its described defects and do not touch people's well-deserved pensions. That's completely illegitimate. The valuation of pensions is intended to cover the growth of living costs and must be reasonably high and must also help poorer pensioners more at a time of high inflation. Again, the government goes against these reasonable principles. Ladies and gentlemen, let us prepare a real pension reform that will last decades. For example, following Germany's model, we have the largest level of establishment in the participation of employers' insurance companies, social and health contributions. And this government proposal, which for no reason sends generations of current and future pensioners into poverty, let us throw under the table! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u247	Mr Zlínský will now be the last to speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u248	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't be long, I won't delay, I've got a circus for about five minutes. In my speech, I will follow up on a speech by a colleague from the SPD, a Member of the Force, who spoke here about demographic problems facing not only the Czech Republic, but all Western or most Western companies. In my opinion, Western societies, including ours, find themselves in the vortex of a kind of population spiral of death. This population spiral of death is a theory described by the American demographer Frank Notestein in 1945. And the theory describes the situation in which the population is in numerical decline and leads to a change in the age structure of the population. Spiral starts with a drop in birth rate. This can be caused by many factors. I will mention at least some of them here, such as increasing the social status and level of women's education, increasing career focus and personal development, delaying the term parenthood - that is to say, extending birth control methods. I'm not saying it's wrong or right, I'm just stating it. And it's along with the decline in mortality in part of the so-called demographic transition. The demographic transition actually separates less developed societies from those developed. If the birth rate falls below the level needed to maintain a stable population, there is a decrease in population. The decline in birth rate leads to a gradual ageing of the population and to a continued trend with its deepening and acceleration. Of course, older populations require more social and health care. Again, it's just a statement. At the same time, the number of young people who are willing and able to work and support the economy is decreasing. This leads to pressure on the sustainability of the pension system and thus on the stability of the state budget. The Spiral of Death is problematic because once the vortex spins, it's very difficult to reverse. This is probably why Western companies have decided to tackle this issue by releasing migration barriers from Asia and Africa, including illegal ones. The need to maintain the stability of the number of indigenous populations in order to maintain the development of Western populations is not stressed. The gradual replacement of the indigenous population of migrants, with all currently visible consequences in some European countries, is preferred, see France, which is, however, downgraded. As a result of its continued progress, large social shocks and the collapse of Western societies as a result of the poverty of societies and the ethnic changes of European populations can be the result. This may result in social storms, civil unrest - we have seen this recently again in France - or in the worst case, which I do not want to call for, a civil war. [[There's an increase in the noise in the room.]] And now I'd mention a few numbers, and there won't be many. Fertility in European Union countries at 1,54. Surprisingly, the southern European countries are at their worst. You'd think fiery Španěl, Ital, Řek and Malťan would be the best of the best, but the opposite is true, because fertility is around 1.2. Surprisingly, the best in Europe appears to be the Ir. We were pretty good at it in 2021, when we had fertility 1.83, but for some reason, I've already talked about it here once, it's dropped to 1.62. So we are not in a bad place within Europe, but on the other hand, it is not enough to stop the spiral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u249	I'd like to interrupt you for a moment, and I'd like to ask my colleagues who are coming to the O.R. to keep them calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u250	Thank you. I only have the last paragraph, so I'm begging you to be patient. It is high time to think about current adverse population trends and start acting as rationally as possible, i.e. actively supporting the birth rate of the original working population by economic stimulus and information campaigns of mainstream mass media about the need for these measures to ensure the stability of the pension system, as well as other economic prosperity and possibly survival of our societies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u251	Thank you. This was the last one entered in the general debate. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? Mr. Speaker, Mr. Minister, are you interested? You don't. The rapporteur is also not interested. There was a proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation from Mrs Šafránková, which we should now vote on. That's why I'm calling in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby. Yes, I'm registering an interest in check-out, which is why I'm signing you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. The President of Benda shall have priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u252	For the sake of dignity, I'd like a four-minute recess at the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u253	Yes, I'm declaring a four-minute break at the request of the chairman of the ODS Club and we'll continue at 21.51.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u254	Time for recess is up. So we're going to vote. I will remind everyone who has returned to the hall that we are voting on the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, as Mrs Šafránková has said. I've checked you out before, I don't know if there's still any interest, but that's why I remind you to come forward again. Therefore, I am now opening the vote on the proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 167 in attendance, for 75, against 90. The motion was denied. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Members of Parliament came forward: Šafránková, Rais, Juchelka, Hanzlíková, Hendrych and Mašek And Mrs. Golasowská also applied from the scene. Now, then, Mrs Šafránková, followed by Mr Rais. Please, colleagues and colleagues, keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u255	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore declare my amendments, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. So I'm filing a motion for rejection again. In the event that this proposal fails, I shall submit a proposal for repayment to the guarantee committee. I also refer to the amendments that have the numbers of House documents 2780, 2782, 2783, 2784, 2786, 2787, 2788, 2789, 2790 and 2848 and I beg you for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u256	I will just say, Madame, that, although you have made it conditional on the vote to return the guarantee committee by voting the motion for rejection, but the motion for rejection, even if it is presented at second reading, is only voted at third reading, we will therefore be voting on your re-proposal to renegotiate the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Mr Rais will now speak in a detailed debate, Mr Juchelka will be prepared. Once again, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u257	Hello. I hereby subscribe to Amendments 2805 and 2806, which I mentioned in the previous debate. I have devoted these proposals essentially to the response to the issue of raising pensions in the case of inflation, in the case of price increases. I do not like the fact that the government will basically beg in the legal way by now in my view, therefore, the most necessary group of residents, which means the pensioner, that he continues, we have already experienced this or seen it in the first half of the year, when some size of pensions was first announced and then, of course, it was not fulfilled. So that's what these two amendments are about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u258	Next is Mr Juchelka, Mrs Hanzlíková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u259	Thank you very much. I would very much like to join the House of Document 2857, 2856 and 2855 in a detailed debate. These are the House's press, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u260	Following is Mrs Hanzlíková. Mr. Hendrych will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u261	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I hereby refer to Amendment 2854, which I have explained in detail in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u262	Thank you, too. Mr. Hendrych. Mr. Mašek is following. Once again, colleagues, I beg you to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u263	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am reporting for an amendment registered under number 2851, which I have justified in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u264	Thank you. Mr Mašek will also appear and Mrs Golasowská will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u265	Madam President, I would like to subscribe to my amendment concerning the reduction of old-age pensions for some representatives of the Communist regime. I have read this proposal in the general debate and I have also justified it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u266	Thank you. Now, Mrs Golasowská, so far the last one applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u267	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As I have already announced in the general debate, I am putting forward a proposal to shorten the deadline to 7 days between second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-11-ps2021-071-01-001-001.u268	Thank you. I can no longer see anyone reporting in a detailed debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? There is no interest, so we will vote on the proposals tabled. First of all, we are voting on the proposal to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, as Mrs Šafránková presented it. I don't see any interest in checking out. I am opening the vote on this proposal. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 169 in attendance, for 74, against 93. The motion was denied. There was also a proposal from the rapporteur to shorten the deadline for third reading to 7 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's in favor of shortening the deadline? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 169 in attendance, for 93, versus 73. The proposal was adopted, so we have shortened the deadlines. There is no other proposal that can be voted on at this time. There has been a motion for rejection, which will be voted at third reading, which is why I am ending the second reading of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the agreement of all club presidents, as has been said from Gremia, I am now interrupting the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will continue tomorrow at 14 o'clock, i.e. Wednesday, July 12, 14 o'clock after the completion or interruption of the 70th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will begin at 9 o'clock. That's why I say goodbye to all of you and have a good evening.
