ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u1	The combined debate on paragraphs 8 and 9 /ST 371 and 372 I record three applications for this merged general debate. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will be the first to speak, then Mrs Iveta Štefanová and then Mr Milan Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u2	Hello. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me comment on the Government Bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, i.e. insolvency law, as amended, and Act No. 312/2006 Coll., on insolvency administrators, as amended, and other related laws. Equivalent mechanisms such as preventive restructuring are missing in the Czech legal system. At present, the only real possibility of restructuring and restarting a business facility through the Institute of Reorganization under the insolvency law is, however, that carries with it the opening of insolvency proceedings with all consequences, which, given that a substantial part of the Czech business plants are owned by companies, the willingness to restructure, or early restructuring in the insolvency proceedings, is generally very low. The objective of the proposed draft preventive restructuring law is to properly transpose Directive No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1). 2017/1132, i.e. the Restructuring and insolvency Directive. At the same time, the aim of the draft law is to adapt issues directly linked to the adoption of the preventive restructuring law and which require legislative links with this new legislation. The aim of the Institute of Preventive Restructuring is to enable entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to continue their business, or to allow them to reboot certain economic activities, through a flexible instrument offering a wide range of restructuring measures. Preventive restructuring can therefore be defined as a process of early recovery of an entrepreneur, or a recovery of the operation of his business establishment, where the corporate crisis has been identified in due time and in which this crisis has not yet reached a stage of bankruptcy. Preventive restructuring thus does not constitute another way of dealing with bankruptcy, but is intended to prevent the bankruptcy of an entrepreneur. The state of imminent bankruptcy can be taken beyond the imaginary limit, i.e. in the case of preventive restructuring, it can be considered as the last moment for the start of recovery, while for the purposes of insolvency proceedings it is one of the earliest moments of fulfilment of the qualification prerequisites for the authorisation of reorganisation. Preventive restructuring is offered to the broadest possible range of entrepreneurs and does not exclude that even deep economic problems can result from relatively simple causes and can have simple solutions, i.e. consultancy use of consultancy services, extension of existing claims of key creditors while taking austerity measures. As I have already said, this proposal also amends other related regulations. For example, the most important ones in my opinion are the amendment of the law on courts and judges, the amendment of the Act on insolvency administrators, the amendment of court fees, the amendment of the law on public health insurance premiums, the amendment of the Act on value added tax as well as the amendment of the Act on higher judicial officials and, of course, the amendment of the Act on private international law in connection with the border element. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with her contribution to the general debate, Mrs Iveta Štefanová, will prepare Mr Milan Feranec. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on the proposal or proposals tabled. A new institute of preventive restructuring is being introduced, which is much like insolvency proceedings, but several substantial differences. The purpose of the preventive restructuring is to prevent the bankruptcy of the undertaking, so it can only be done before the bankruptcy. If the company goes bankrupt, then insolvency follows. The process of preventive restructuring is voluntary for the company. In the first instance, as well as insolvency proceedings, it is brought before a regional court. Contrary to insolvency, however, precautionary restructuring by the court may not always be provided for, but only on a proposal from the parties concerned. The process shall be based mainly on the consensus of the parties concerned and may be terminated at any time. A new restructuring register is hereby established, where the instruments relating to the restructuring procedure will be published. The company has an obligation to draw up a so-called bailout project under which it will draw up a restructuring plan describing in particular the company's assets and debts, a list of the claims of both the creditors and the other creditors concerned and a description of the restructuring measures. Such a measure could in principle be anything that would help to prevent the company's financial difficulties and its de facto bankruptcy. As the aim of insolvency proceedings is to protect the rights of the creditor, preventive restructuring serves for the benefit of the company, i.e. the debtor. It improves its negotiating position and gives greater opportunity to avoid the bankruptcy of the company and does not affect outstanding claims. This proposed process is in line with the SPD's political programme, i.e. greater protection of debtors without restricting the rights of the creditor, so we will clearly support this proposal. As for the second House press 372, there is essentially the introduction of a new institute of preventive restructuring into the insolvency law, so of course we will support that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u5	I thank you, Madame, and now I will ask Mr Milan Feranc for his contribution. [[The Member asks the President about the state of the hearing.]] At present, we find ourselves in a merged general debate for both prints, then it will be divided and there will be detailed debates on individual prints. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech - the performance has two parts, the first part is actually in the general debate, the first one I will actually speak with the ANO club's position on the preventive restructuring law, and in the second I want to say a few words about the amendment that I will put to press 372, that is, to those related laws in the general debate. So, as far as I'm concerned... or before I start with the club's position, my personal note. I am usually very, very skeptical of the various directives that come to us from Brussels, but in this case I must say, of course, this is a transposition, but I really think that this is a useful matter, this law. It has already been said here, I will just repeat it again: the Institute of Preventive Restructuring is really missing in the Czech legal system, indeed missing. We actually have a reorganisation under the insolvency law. The problem is that the insolvency law really pursues a little different objectives, it pursues the objective of maximum satisfaction of creditors, and reorganisation is only one way, and because the system is very formalized and the real purpose is to satisfy creditors, and the most common way is to sell the debtor's assets, so even in practice I think that the cases of reorganisation under the insolvency law were very few, and it is actually trying to correct this law on preventive restructuring. The aim of the law, the logic is to have a company that gets into certain economic difficulties to start a process within which it can be restarted. This means that there will indeed be an agreement with creditors, that part of this firm's liabilities can be excused and that this company can continue to operate, which is of course very important in terms of the economy in general and also in terms of what awaits us. Perhaps the economic situation will not be the best, and I think it is very appropriate to have this instrument. I have already said, the bill constitutes a comprehensive adjustment to preventive restructuring and the aim of the Institute of Preventive Restructuring is to enable entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to continue their business, or to allow a certain economic restart, as I said, through a flexible instrument that offers a wide range of restructuring measures. Preventive restructuring can therefore be defined as a process of early recovery of an entrepreneur, or the operation of a business facility where a business crisis has been identified in a timely manner and in which the crisis has not yet reached a decline. The draft law then describes in detail the individual steps in the preventive restructuring process and its basic principles, that is, how preventive restructuring is initiated, the characteristics of this procedure, how a restructuring plan is drawn up, the process of accepting creditors' restructuring plans, the interruption of the recovery of individual claims - that is the protection against creditors. General individual moratorium, process of validation of the restructuring plan by the court, role of restructuring advisors and administrators, status of members and statutory (?) Entrepreneur's bodies, external financing, valuation of the entrepreneur's assets and finally legislative returns and jurisdiction on recognition abroad. So I repeat again, the ANO MP will support this law. I will mention briefly, in the framework of the constitutional-legal committee we had the opportunity to debate with experts in this area as well. They were representatives of the Association of Insolvency Administrators who submitted certain subjects. And as far as I know, my colleague Staněk has tabled a comprehensive amendment that addresses this issue. In this sense, we will also support this comprehensive amendment to this law from Mr Staněk's pen. So this is just about our opinion on the Act on Preventive Restructuring. And now I would like to take the liberty of having a general debate on the 372 press. This press changes related laws, insolvency law and so on and so on. There I took the liberty of reading one amendment, and then I will say it in the general debate. He is relatively simple and concerns the regulation of Income Tax Act No. 586/1992, which, by the way, has - I counted it - about 188 amendments, of which I mean five Constitutional Court findings, and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but the noise level is high again. I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u8	Thank you, thank you. So I read a proposal that would exempt it from income tax and actually forgive the company's commitment to restructuring. To explain: if there is an agreement with creditors that they will forgive part of their claims, so that even in the light of the Income Tax Act, this is exempt from income tax. This is not new, the current Income Tax Act contains income tax exemptions for the remission of part of the debt, it is actually a default, and it also concerns reorganisation. So the purpose of this law is to sub-class certain debts in the context of preventive restructuring under this exemption, so this is actually the substance of the proposed change. I will sign up for this in the context of a detailed debate and, of course, I will then ask for the support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-005-901.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Yes, in the context of a detailed debate, sign up for the proposal in question. I ask if anyone else is still reporting for the merged general debate? I see no one, in which case I am ending the merged general debate. I ask the Minister or the rapporteur, one and the other, if you wish to speak with the final word? It's not like that, thank you. I am therefore ending the merged general debate. I am interrupting the discussion of paragraph 372 and returning to paragraph 371, which I am opening.
