ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 72/2000 Coll., on investment incentives and amending certain laws (the Act on Investment Incentives), as amended (the House Press 409/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. I beg you, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u2	Once again, a lovely afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Ministry of Industry and Trade material presented for today's meeting for discussion. This is a proposal for changes in the investment incentive system to be implemented by the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act. On the basis of this, there will be a significant process change. It is proposed to repeal the existing obligation of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to submit any request for an investment incentive to the Government for discussion. The binding decision-making of the government in the final phase of the approval of the investment incentive application was introduced into the law in 2019 and proved to be problematic and ineffective in practice. The preparation of material for government negotiations has extended the decision-making process of investment incentives to 12 or more months, which brings an excessive time burden and a high degree of uncertainty to the applicant in the administrative process of approving applications. Investors, in addition to the problem of dealing with labour shortages in the result of pandemics, energy crises and so on, must wait some more than a year before they know whether or not they will receive an investment incentive. This uncertainty leads to the loss of important projects in an effort to place them in the Czech Republic and to the risk of some investors. Moreover, the investment incentive is mostly provided in the form of a income tax discount, and it is not appropriate for the amount of income tax to be decided individually, but should be determined for all investors under transparent and clearly defined conditions. The government already lays down binding and stricter rules on the granting of aid to individual projects by means of a government regulation that is applicable to all, and therefore there is no need to renegotiate individual requests at the government's meeting, which is intended in particular for conceptual decision-making. Therefore, the Government should assess only strategic investment actions that request a financial contribution to the acquisition of long-term tangible and intangible assets from the State budget. At the same time, the Ministry of Industry and Trade will set up a working expert group from the representatives of the associations, the departments concerned and the professional public, which will regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the investment incentive system, monitor current economic trends and propose changes to the set parameters. The proposed bill will shorten, simplify and streamline the process of providing investment incentives and will contribute to the fulfilment of its objective of effectively obtaining the most beneficial investments in the Czech Republic, which is particularly important in these uncertain economic conditions for maintaining further economic development and the resilience of the Czech economy. The Government discussed and approved the bill on 22 March this year. I would like to ask you to support this bill at today's meeting as well as in the legislative process in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and then in second and third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Michael Rataj, take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I have been instructed to introduce you to House Press No. 409. This is a government bill from the Ministry of Industry and Trade workshop on investment incentives. On 5 April 2023, the Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the draft law by Resolution 142 and designated me as rapporteur and proposed the Economic Committee as a guarantee. [[17.30 hours]] Let me briefly summarize the issue of investment incentives and repeat the proposed changes after the Minister. Investment incentives are public support granted within the limits of the European Commission set block conditions in order to promote the economic development of the Czech Republic and create jobs. The legal regulation is contained in Law No. 72/2000 Sb., on investment incentives. In 2019 Law No. 210/2019 Coll., which took place in the system of investment incentives for the division of competences between the law and implementing legislation, thus introducing an obligation to approve each investment incentive by the government. The introduction of this policy step at the final stage of the approval of the investment incentive application has proved problematic in practice and has reduced the credibility of the investment incentive system towards all potential applicants. Plus, it's time-consuming. It is therefore proposed that the Ministry of Industry be removed from the obligation to submit any request for an investment incentive to the Government for discussion. The investment incentive decision will be issued on the basis of an assessment of the conditions and obligations laid down by the Investment Incentives Act and other related legislation. The assessment of applications for investment incentives will thus return to the level of the ministerial hearing in full compliance with the principles of administrative procedure, thereby increasing the legitimate predictability of the approval procedure. The government will continue to submit requests for strategic investment actions to obtain a financial contribution to the acquisition of fixed tangible and intangible assets. It is also proposed to introduce a one-stage decision-making method, as is the case with decisions on subsidies under budgetary rules. The subject matter of the draft amendment is therefore shortening, simplifying and, above all, improving the process of approving applications for investment incentives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening a general debate. I'm asking, who's joining the general debate? The first is Mr Marek Novák and then Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I must begin with a brief look at this proposal in recent history, in order to actually know what it is. The government of Andrej Babiš in this House in the past period passed a law that completely changed the philosophy of the then setting-up of the system of investment incentives. Investment incentives as such have been provided in the Czech Republic since 1998. At the end of the 1990s, the need for these incentives was mainly due to the need to reduce unemployment. However, this focus was no longer consistent with the state of our economy. Therefore, the then government has decided, logically and pragmatically, to provide investment incentives only very exceptionally, and mainly primarily for projects with high added value or also for projects with locations in the most economically affected regions. In 2018, the then government of Andrej Babiš submitted a fundamental and comprehensive amendment to the Investment Incentives Act. This was even confirmed by the opposition at the time when it called for the adoption of a completely new law. You've got it in your hands today, and you're changing it. There were a lot of amendment points. However, the unified idea of the regulation at the time was to strengthen the rationalization of the system itself. The main cornerstone of this point was the principle that all requests for investment incentives would be subject to government approval before their decision. Without this, no single investment incentive should have been provided - and therefore no single investment incentive has yet been granted. The architecture of the then-promoted changes increased the flexibility of the entire investment incentive system, and mainly its coherence with the specific economic situation in the Czech Republic. The system was competently divided between the laws and government regulations. So he was more flexible. Investment incentives became available only for projects with higher added value, where the method of assessment of higher added value was defined by a specific government regulation. The assumption was that the investments would be linked to the aided entity, mainly and mainly related to qualified work at the prescribed wage level and further to research and development. The reduction of entry limits was intended to help improve the availability of investment incentives especially for smaller local - and attention - Czech entrepreneurs, something that the opposition once again called for loudly when it argued that investment incentives should not be just for large companies and also only those companies abroad. We didn't go that way. The government of Andrej Babiš then proposed a more pragmatic incentive system. It has promoted it in the House and, above all, it is important here, it has assumed political responsibility for it - and you are giving it up now - political responsibility in two ways: firstly, it has been determined in general to define more detailed parameters of supported investment and secondly, it has been committed to individually assessing, deciding and deciding on individual investment projects in the congregation. The economic impacts of the investment incentives granted are large and, in my view, the adequacy of the aid requested must be thoroughly assessed against the benefits of individual projects. I myself am not a supporter of subsidies and artificial investment, but in the present world we often have nothing left but such support. But it is also necessary to always assume political responsibility for these actions, and again I say the step that you bring, you get rid of this political responsibility, you voluntarily get rid of it. And that brings us to today, because the proposed bill actually removes this principle from the law. It's been put in a bit of a wrap around this place, but it's been said. If this proposal is approved, the Government will no longer participate in the decision on specific investment incentives. It would only be left with the power to set parameters for supported investments through the regulation. The removal of the need for government consent to each incentive is justified in the proposal by the time intensity, the non-transparency and the lack of predictability of the investor process, since the law does not specify the criteria under which the government should comment on the requests for investment incentives. The assessment of applications for investment incentives is thus intended to return primarily to the level of the ministerial hearing. Where's the transparency? This can tell us that the government is not actually able to act in the congregation, and it's just figuring out to whom, in what and which party will retreat, who and how much of the bear will get if you catch the bear. However, applications to obtain a financial contribution to the acquisition of long-term tangible and intangible assets for strategic investment actions should continue to be submitted to the government. This is a direct cost paid out of the state budget, and the government will assess the current possibilities of the state budget, so you simply will not get rid of this process. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government is proposing to remove only this one point from our system. Yet I say, unfortunately. The entire remaining architecture of our then government's investment incentives has decided to keep the current government coalition. Clearly, it is not bad, despite the fact that, even during the 2019 debate, the ODS called for a complete cancellation of investment incentives, and I think we will certainly hear it from our colleagues from the ODS today. [[17.40 hours]] On the right of the plenary, it was said that the investment incentive was meaningful only in very exceptional cases, and it was doubtful whether we could place exceptionality and exceptionality in individual terms and in one law. It was also said from the right that investment incentives should end entirely as interventionist ways of the State's behaviour towards the market. We can agree, we don't have to. It was also said from the right that investment incentives created and created an unfair competitive environment. That is precisely the political responsibility. Yes, they can create an unstable environment if the parameters are wrong. However, the need for incentives - and I can also say unfortunately - is clear from a global point of view. I can mention here, for example, the Rover factory, which eventually grew up in Slovakia after the total failure of the then Prime Minister Sobotka. Yes, we were there. It is precisely in order not to repeat such failures that we have subsequently introduced a new transparent system under the rule of Andrej Babiš that will help our market and our people. On the contrary, the government's political responsibility for its decisions today was judged by you, the so-called right hand, as one of the few advantages of the system being implemented. Times change and yesterday isn't today. The turns of the current government have already become such a folklore and a habit. However, we stand behind the current setting of incentives, and we will definitely oppose this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up is Mr. Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I took the liberty of signing up because in the past period I was the rapporteur of the amendment to the Act, which brought about changes in investment incentives. It is almost for a day of four years exactly when this amendment was approved. I will, of course, consider in my speech both the specific proposal and what Mr Novák said by your means, but my main motivation was to take on investment incentives as such. It is true that we have already called for restrictions on investment incentives in the past period, and I have persisted in this consistent skeptical view of the very extensive use of investment incentives, and I would like to warn in general about their overuse. Lately - we've all heard it in the media and during the debate on the consolidation package - we've been openly speaking in our society that we're living in a subsidy economy. Today it is presented as a great deal of knowledge, but precisely this sentence that our economy is changing slowly from market to subsidy, I just used here four years ago in 2019, during the period during the review of the amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives, which brought the above-mentioned changes focused on strategic services, technological centres, technological innovation. It is a label quite accurate, because the investment incentive is also a kind of subsidy. What bothers me about subsidies and investment incentives in general is that they can, if not properly organized and managed, provide a competitive advantage to the final firm, the final beneficiary, the specific firm that receives the subsidy or investment incentive. Any competitive advantage over its competitors is distorted by the market. We can talk about tax discounts, financial contributions or specific subsidies and subsidies for a specific project. That's why I see the risk of giving advantage to those who receive an incentive over those who do not. Those who receive it can then offer cheaper services, products, or they can give, for example, higher wages and, at a time of high employment, low unemployment, they can overwhelm their competitors at a time when there is a shortage of workers. Therefore, even from a business environment, most entrepreneurs consider investment incentives to be an unfair environment. This was also the case before the novel in 2019. Therefore, from my point of view, the main task of the state and the Ministry of Industry and Trade should be to monitor, evaluate, control, very thoroughly provided incentives not to become part of only competitive struggle and gain advantages over competition. From my point of view, investment incentives really make sense only in very special cases, such as in obtaining an extraordinary business opportunity for the Czech Republic, supporting innovative solutions or fast investment in structurally affected regions. Here I would like to pick up what my colleague Novák, by your means, did not mention, or said that the government had gotten rid of the possibility of determining the conditions of the government's regulation. I would like to point out here that I am pleased that there is also a change in the Government's regulation, which tightens the conditions for investment incentives somewhat, in particular accentuates greater focus on investment in value-added products, both as a condition for increasing expenditure in the area of development and research and increasing the proportion of researchers. I am aware that investment with higher added value will be needed for the Czech economy in the future, which will contribute significantly to the production of gross domestic product and at the same time expand the knowledge potential of the Czech economy. However, my overall skeptical view of investment incentives does not change. I understand the proposed specific amendment by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the sense that potential candidates should not be discouraged by the length of the process with uncertain results, even if they meet all requirements. I understand that there is a concern that the Czech Republic should have something to offer in the environment of competition of the state attracting new entities with new technologies in its territory. I understand that strategic projects will remain under the regime of government approval. However, it should be said that investment incentives should not be eligible, as well as subsidies. As with many grant titles, I would very much hate to see formalism and paper fulfilment of the criteria win subsequently. In fact, I would like to hear the assurance that this will not mean the release of building blocks by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In providing incentives, as with subsidies, it is necessary to take into account the state of the public finances and the fact that the most common incentive is the tax discount. Minister, thank you for listening to me. I would like to conclude, because it wasn't in the material, if you have any numbers, how investment incentives have developed recently. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u9	Thank you. Mr. Milan Feranec has a real point, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what my colleague Munzar said. I completely misunderstood - because on the one hand, he says that it is wrong, I understand this view, that is clear, but on the other hand, there is a law that actually reduces the level of decision-making from government to ministry, with tax discounts only in case of investment aid in the sense that there will be a government decision. That's how I understood it. It is only if you do not contradict yourself a little, Mr colleague, through Mr President, when you say that everything is wrong, wrong, wrong, but by this law we are actually going to shift the level of decision-making to a lower level. Without wanting to touch anyone in any way, that lower in the sense that the government will no longer decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u11	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Mr Jan Bureš, has now duly signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on this Act on investment incentives. I would like to comment on this because I am from a structurally disabled region, from the Karlovy Vary region. You all know that this government and many ministers have acted and performed, as it is extremely important to these three regions, the regions of Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký and Karlovy Vary, to help. [[17.50 hours]] A moment ago, Mr Munzar, who said that an investment incentive is a subsidy, was a competitive advantage. And I'm going to ask a simple and simple rhetorical question. Which regions should have the most investment incentives? Where should investors go the most? It is very simple: to these three structurally affected regions, and of the three I could and would like to poke out the region of Karlovy Vary and Ústecký, which is at its worst in terms of wages, GDP and other indicators. And suddenly, the Minister of Industry and Trade will bring us this law, which practically in terms of investment incentives, the arrival of investors in these regions, virtually if an investor wanted to come to the region and did not have the added value in quotes, so in a way he did not have to meet the conditions and the investment incentive gained. I will not be here, Minister, to talk about the fact that you are going to the Pilsen Region, and should you direct it to the structurally disabled one, but I would like to ask you, since you have been in the government for over 520 days, how many investment incentives have been directed under your government to the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region? I'll answer you, zero! Since 2019, when the arrival of the investor BMW was successful, which is to build a circuit on autonomous vehicles, where the added value is also, I have not since registered that these investment incentives should be directed there, or to hear at least some hint, or that something is being discussed in this matter. I absolutely don't like you coming up with this proposal. We can have some discussion here, and you can tell me that you want to support investment incentives that will have sophisticated production that will be innovative, but where is the guarantee that they will be directed to these structurally affected regions? That is by no means in this law, and by changing the conditions that at least have brought an investor into those structurally affected regions. It is also expressed by experts who clearly say that, by abolishing the condition, it will be set up, of course, that if unemployment is greater than 7,5 percent, then there will not have to be such sophisticated production. At the same time, you want to support major investors and even smaller investments, you want to do that, not only will the application have to be approved by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but will have to be approved by four other departments: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Ministry of Agriculture. If one resort gives a disagreeable opinion, it won't be approved. No way with what you're saying - you're actually saying: we want to help the regions of the socially weak, structurally disabled - so in my opinion and according to what you're presenting, you're going in the opposite direction. I would understand if you were to present here an amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, where it would be treated: Yes, we need work with added value, we need science, research, innovation, but if you were to submit a bill, where it would be that once again these three regions will have some advantage to really get these investors to go to these regions, because otherwise those regions will simply not rise in any way in the future. So I do not agree with this proposal in any way, and I really do not like that at all with such a proposal that goes against these regions that you are making such a proposal. Of course, I'll listen to your reaction, I'm sure you'll react in some way, or I'll come up with a suggestion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u13	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u14	Thank you. I want to respond to my colleague Feranc. I don't know what was unclear. I told you my skeptical view of investment incentives in general. But I said here that I understand some of the reasons why we sometimes have investment incentives. I also said that I understand this amendment so as not to discourage any interested person from investing elsewhere than in the Czech Republic, but at the same time I warned against getting to the other extreme, so I would say not to break a bag of formalism in assessing investment incentives. So everything I've summed up here, I've had in my performance. I don't know what was unclear about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u15	I thank you and now duly signed up Mr Jan Bureš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Dear colleagues, I am also from the structurally affected region, also from the Karlovy Vary region as a colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. I mean, investment incentives are public support, which is quite a popular tool in many countries in the world. Personally, I remember probably the biggest development of CzechInvest agency, which sometimes brought investors, potential investors to us at the beginning of the millennium, mainly because of the fact that industrial zones were growing throughout our country, and thus the promotion of job creation began. The employees of CzechInvest drove quite often, there were quite a lot of them. At that time, I was the mayor of the town of Ostrov, which at that time also had a fresh and empty industrial zone, where we were in vain looking for investors. At the time, the investment incentive was for a job created. In our country, just for interest, in the Island, the district of Karlovy Vary, the incentive was EUR 2,300 per job created plus some tax holiday and in Klášterec, which is from us 24 km and 24 minutes, the incentive was EUR 5,600, i.e. more than double, due to higher unemployment. Logically, we were looking for investors much worse than our colleagues from northern Bohemia did. This resulted logically with these support for the creation of a single workstation, which employed a large number of people, usually unqualified. However, new industrial zones have also begun to expand and develop. It doesn't always have to be right, but it just came out. Then, in my opinion, the philosophy of the approach has changed very correctly and the support could be given to high-value investments or investments that could be characterised as innovative. However, in the current system, which still applies, structurally affected regions have an exception. Investors who do not meet these basic parameters may come to our structurally affected regions, i.e. high added value or high level of innovation. I understand, of course, as the Minister said, that it is necessary to promote beneficial investment for our country, but on the other hand, it must also be noted that investment incentives are public support, either by way of tax reductions or by direct finance to investors, either by way of payment by the taxpayer. But this public support should not only have reason to attract investors to the Czech Republic, i.e. investors in innovative industry or in industry that has high added value, but should also be a tool to address regional disparities. [[18.00 hours]] Personally, I don't mind if the investment incentives are approved by the government, the ministry, the inter- resolution committee or any other collective body. That doesn't bother me at all, either, but I would like to see that, if there is no support for our affected regions - and I do not misunderstand me, I am not going to go to the assembly halls with us, I will be glad that we will also have high added value competitions or races with innovative industry - but I think we should also think that we also have regions that are lagging behind the others in our country. Today it is the Karlovy Vary, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian region, but tomorrow it can be a completely different region, and we should think that we should retain some instrument to support these regions. Yes, on the one hand, we are giving subsidies, not just us, but also the European Union. After all, even in the planning period that is now underway, there was originally to be higher support for structurally affected regions. It is not, so we only have special subsidy programmes, which is of course something else, but I think it is crucial for our regions to give people qualified and well-valued work. That is why I wanted to ask, by concluding my speech by the Minister, whether there will continue to be an advantage for the structurally affected regions. I really don't care about the Karlovy Vary I'm from or the Ústecký or the Moravian-Silesian region. My point is, in general, whether you want to maintain an instrument for the structurally affected regions to be in such a key instrument that the government of the Czech Republic has at its disposal, that is, in investment incentives, an opportunity to favour them, how to prefer them and how to show and lure investors exactly where there is a problem that is in the general interest to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u17	Thank you. Next up is Mr Karel Haas, Mr Václav Král. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u18	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will try here to support my previous speakers from the ODS to explain the ODS position, at the same time to support the draft law very strongly by the MIT and to explain to me some of the inaccuracies that have fallen here in the speeches of opposition colleagues, how much I respect them. Perhaps the basic basis from which we must - because even ODS members do not live in the vacuum - from which we must come. Investment incentives have been provided in the Czech Republic since 1998, in other words, a quarter of a century. The law has been amended since 2000. Almost a quarter of a century. Investment incentives - our country does not live in an airlock - are provided across Europe, so I guess we have to work with this situation in some way. This brings me - and hopefully in quotes - with a precise ass bridge - to support the law. If we have to work with investment incentives, because reality, the economic reality of Europe, the economic reality of the world, is simply forcing us to work with investment incentives, then please make it the least bureaucratic, and as quickly and as helpful as possible, and I stress as transparent for investors as possible. And that's a proposal from the Ministry of Industry and Trade across the street, let me be very clear. If you've read it, you can confirm my words. Firstly, the transparency of decisions on investment incentives. What the law does as one of its support lines is that it cuts the change that was introduced into the investment incentive process in 2019 under the previous government, that is, it cuts political decisions on investment incentives. And now, with great respect to your colleagues, the opposition, in a number of your speeches, remember the debate on the Service Act, you have called so many times for the transparency of the process in this country to be made professional, not political, decision-making. And what this law does is that it cuts political decisions from the process of providing investment incentives, which had no objective criteria. The government could have decided completely unpredictablely for investors. On the other hand, this law returns to the fact that decision-making on investment incentives will be administrative, or returns to the administrative decision-making process, an equivalent decision-making on subsidies, which is, let's say, a very similar segment of the exercise of public power. Investment incentives, they've fallen from colleagues, they're nothing but a subsidy. So, from my point of view, if I hear from my opposition colleagues here that the bill goes, for example, to a lower transparency, that it leads to a deterioration in the process, then no one, not at the ministries as central government bodies, must intervene politically, so this amendment cuts political decisions, unpredictable political decisions, and returns to purely administrative decisions. In other words, even in the various ministries that will be involved in this process, whether it is the MIT itself as the central body of the state administration, which will be the gesture of these administrative proceedings, or the requested four ministries, which will give mandatory opinions for this administrative procedure, I believe that everyone across this House will understand that we are returning from the political decision-making unpredictable to professional decision-making. That's the first thing. The second thing, I think, is that things are to be unified in the Czech Republic. Who you operate or have worked in central government bodies that provide subsidies, who operate in municipalities and regions that grant subsidies under small budgetary rules, you know well that in these types of management under large or small budgetary rules there is essentially no possibility of appeal, in other words, the procedure is not traditionally two-tiered as other administrative procedures. In principle, you can only defend yourself there by attacking, say, formal procedural rules, not territorially. This is another line which, in my view, simplifies the process of providing or deciding to provide investment incentives, makes it more predictable, makes it more correct, makes it more consistent with another similar type of procedure, that is, with the granting procedures. Mračková Vildumetzová's colleague, through Mr President, to benefit or disadvantage, and I may be overtaking one of the Minister's replies, the question was for the Minister, but I am taking advantage of my speech. To favour structurally affected regions - I am not from the structurally affected region, but I recognise that there are completely objectively regions in the Czech Republic that are structurally worse off. And please, and now the previous government has actually implemented it, it was one of their last decisions in November 2021, so it is nothing more than the implementation of European rules, I think it was November 15th, the previous government in the form of a government regulation called a map, let's say a regional map of the maximum possible level of public support. Even investment incentives are not excluded from the public support process, they must be in line with the basic European rules for public support and structurally affected regions are very significant - I will mention here, the specific government regulation numbers are ahead of me, 428 of 2021 - structurally affected regions are different, and I will mention from both aspects, both structurally affected regions and, let's say, the regions are richer in the Czech Republic, what is the extent of the advantage. Maximum permissible public support for investment actions implemented in the cohesion region: Moravian-Silesia - 30 %, Central Moravia - 30 %, Northeast - 30 %, Northwest - 40 percent, of which opposite spectrum Prague - 0 or Prague region - 0, so this is a comparison when information about structurally affected regions has no advantage in the current system of investment incentives. That information, if it falls from the counter, it's not -- now I'm looking for a fancy word -- it's not objective. I refer to Government Decree 428/2021. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u19	Thank you and now duly signed up Mr. Václav Král. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am honored to be able to come forward here and discuss matters relating to investment incentives and to change the law and the meaningfulness of these incentives. I thought that sometime in the late '90s, we had already left this area, and maybe in a way I'd say that I thought we'd learned from the development that was here after the Velvet Revolution. Now we say that, on the one hand, we are trying to increase the added value of our products, and yet in reality we have become actually a montage of Europe. It is a matter that I do not fully understand, because in a situation where, as the Czech Republic, we have one of the smallest unemployment rates in the European Union, so to continue to deal with this area of public sector support is something that is simply beyond my understanding, and, after all, with regard to the current consolidation package, where we say on the one hand that we have to save public funds and that we are going to cut national subsidies, and on the other hand, we say that the European Union is providing us with almost impenetrable funds, which we want to transform into, for example, these investment incentives, so there is some contradiction. We discussed here recently the form of the consolidation package, where it seems that we should cut from the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget - if I remember correctly - CZK 20.9 billion, from the Ministry of Agriculture's budget then I suspect 10.9, that there were plus other ministries following. And it might not sound like a total co-worker right now, but no one actually told us exactly what the funds were about at this point. For example, the MIT announced that it would reduce the contributions to photovoltaics or renewables, what would be the real usability of these... or the Ministry of Finance, thank you, I apologize - what the feasibility would be real, is a question. So, on the one hand, we are focusing on investment incentives, we would like to say maybe from national sources, and on the other hand, we are actually cutting those national resources, and so only those European sources that remain - I can't even say the sum - are hundreds of billions of crowns that we suddenly want to invest, and there we don't have to save. With the law, with the amendment that comes today, such as the consolidation package, we risk a little doubt, but a little bit more, questioning the business environment in the Czech Republic at all. I really ask myself how we will convince investors - and now I don't know if from the area of Czech companies, but also foreign ones - to invest in the Czech Republic. I don't want to talk about the current government, I think it's an interest for all of us to maintain some kind of stability in the business environment. And I think that, unfortunately, we are not doing very well because of the changes that are coming from the European Union. However, let us consider what is hidden under these investment incentives. In the 1990s, I may have considered them to be some key stone that pushes our companies and businesses and the Czech society forward, that investors are the ones that move these processes and the state shows them the way through these incentives. After all, these incentives can also serve as a catalyst for the growth of innovation and prosperity. That's all I thought we were past. However, this investment is particularly important today. Companies are faced with the various challenges and obstacles that we put before them, not only at all with developments, especially in European legislation, but also with the start - I feel I have already mentioned this once, a sort of subsidy race between the United States of America and the European Union. And so again, when we cut the announced national resources, it just doesn't make sense, and I have great concern that if we don't agree within the European Union, then the Czech Republic doesn't define its priorities, so that we simply lose this race. Maybe that's what we're discussing today's novel will do. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear that in the context of the presentation of the proposal. So there are obstacles in front of entrepreneurs, and the business environment is getting worse all the time. Entrepreneurs are increasingly burdened by various administration and additional processes that take them away from what they have to do, that is, making money. I am talking specifically about the requirements for fulfilling various environmental standards, I am talking about decarbonisation, the need for changes in sources of heat production, electricity production, and an ever-wider range of entrepreneurs are running through processes and requirements relating to the protection of personal data, the ESG criteria and others. And I would like to ask if the government, or the Ministry, will direct the public funds in this direction to ease the demands that are being made on them from all sides. And I have to say, that question is not coming out of my mouth, because I am convinced that investment incentives and subsidies, as well as regulation, are simply not part of the market environment and capitalism without attributes. So we need to figure out how the money in the investment incentives will actually be targeted. Then we can also look forward to believing that public funds will go to the development of new products and technologies. You know that, in the long run, we are talking about the meaningfulness and effectiveness of spending public funds in science and research, when basic economic criteria are not working, and if we are able to explore primary research, then we are already limping in the actual application and implementation, if you want, of the capitalization of the costs of science and research we are spending. So I'm asking if we want to focus on products with higher added value, on technologies, or whether we want to continue to be a montage of Europe. Then these incentives could be used by entrepreneurs to expand their establishments or create new qualified jobs. I believe that investors are the driving force behind economic growth and thus contribute to the overall well-being of our society. Investment incentives are undoubtedly a key tool for attracting and maintaining investment, so I ask whether we will use them for the development of society and our businesses, or only to maintain the existing state where we do not generate value-added products in the Czech Republic or use results from primary research. [[18.20 hours]] The incentives may include various tax breaks, subsidies, reduction of bureaucracy, but also other support mechanisms. Their aim may be to reduce investment risks and increase the attractiveness of the business environment. This may seem trivial at first glance, but with the legislative shrinking of various regulations and directives coming from the European Union, on the one hand, we would like to increase the attractiveness of the investment environment and, on the other hand, we will simply destabilize the business environment. So I think we should all speak with one breath and find a balance between whether we want to support investment or, on the other hand, betray an entrepreneur from investment. Undoubtedly, this creates incentives for investors to bring their capital and their know-how to our companies and thus support their development. How we're doing or going to this point, I'll leave you to your assessment. However, we need to realise the factual aspect and dimension of grant titles and investment incentives, when we know, say, from economic theories, but I think also practice that investment incentives demote people from innovation, from work and simply distort the market. This is a thing that I hope - I hope to all or most of you - I apologize for it, I don't mean it personally - obvious and I'm not sure we're going in the right direction with the amendment. If we attract capital and know-how from private investors, we can expect the development of these companies. These are the advantages, these are the advantages of strengthening the competitiveness of the business sector. By offering attractive incentives for investors, we can attract already mentioned foreign investments and thus engage in global economic events. This competitiveness motivates us, of course, to further innovation and enhances our ability to adapt to rapidly changing conditions, which, however, do not change naturally, but, as I have already mentioned, are accelerated in a way artificially and on the basis of political decisions, in our case, the European Union, and I fear that in the near future, perhaps some kind of geopolitical repression between Europe and America. These are the opportunities we have here. And the last, no less important advantage I would like to mention here is that investment incentives can also be used to improve the environment, the impact of business activities, entrepreneurs on the environment. So we often talk about this within the framework of the Committee on the Environment or European Affairs - indeed, the influx of standards relating to Green Deal, and I want to say almost German Energiewende, is disastrous. And so we, on the one hand, when we want entrepreneurs to behave ecologically or more environmentally in quotation marks to comply with different ESG criteria, maybe I also want to tell you the standards that relate to cyber security, so we can push investment incentives in this direction to motivate employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u21	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down, because the noise in the room is quite enormous. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to everyone for perhaps saying what's common knowledge here, and for giving it in an uninteresting way. However, the amendment is simply essential for the future direction of the Czech Republic and public funds, so I would like to sum up the fundamental advantages and disadvantages of investment incentives. The last thing I mentioned here is that they can be used to improve the environment. And I'd like to hear here if the Czech Republic goes that way. Then, in a way, we would deny what has been said here in the context of discussing the consolidation package, where we say, on the one hand, that we will reduce the national finances that will go in this direction, and on the other hand, we will draw on European subsidies, which we can also use to promote the improvement of the environment and the impact of business activities on the global climate. It is strange that we are good at this support in sectors such as - or: that these rules are applied in sectors such as energy, agriculture, but, for example, in the situation of water management in the countryside and the like, it seems - or at least to me personally, I apologize - that this sector is such a Cinderella and that there is little talk about water and water benefits in the landscape and even for life in the Czech Republic. But I don't want to delay, I'm sorry. These investments can lead to the development of environmentally friendly technologies and reductions in emissions, or more efficient use of resources. Investors can, of course, engage in sustainable projects, contributing to the protection of our planet and leaving a positive legacy for future generations. I would say that these are the basic principles of the ESG criteria that I have mentioned here. And I'd like to hear here whether we're going to push forces in this direction, and it's through investment incentives that we motivate the private sector, or even, after all, state organisations to operate according to the ESG criteria. This is something that may be forgotten here, that if European legislation and national legislation introduce these ESG principles into our legislative practice, then even state-owned enterprises, the Minister of Transport here certainly has experience of this, were simply leaders in making state organisations a display cabinet in the application of the ESG criteria, that is to say, sustainability and reduction of the environmental impacts of business activities. Investment incentives are therefore a means to enable us to move our society forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u23	In that case, I will ask again, colleagues and colleagues, for silence, to understand what the Member says in the left side of the hall. Please, colleagues on the right, I'll request silence. Colleagues from the ODS, I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so that you understand what the MP says. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u24	I'll take it for a while. Investment incentives are a means of allowing us to move society forward, and they are tools that motivate investors to bring their capital, innovation and create new jobs in our environment, whether they are small entrepreneurs, innovative start-ups or international corporations. Investment incentives give them the opportunity to prosper and work together to build a better world. This is an interesting moment, because on the one hand, we say that we support large international groups, and on the other hand, we say that this is wrong and that we should focus more on small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I see a certain lack of consistency in the government's statement. But again, I don't want it to sound like I'm only hitting the current government in quotation marks. [[18.30 hours]] I think that if there has to be some regulation and some investment incentives, subsidies and the like, it should all be measured by the same subway. It is simply not possible here to accept that, for example, in the agriculture I am close to, we will demand really draconian investment from large producers and to ensure different hygiene standards and the like, which is, of course, fine, on the other hand, but it seems that some small and medium-sized entrepreneurs would want some exceptions and we would not want what we want from large investors. This is simply a thing that I do not understand, and we can see it today in imports of agricultural products from Ukraine, when surrounding countries such as Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania stopped import of grain and other agricultural products from Ukraine, the Czech Republic did not do this and we are convinced here that these products are okay - well, of course they are not okay, even if they were, let's say qualitatively, as I have great doubts, compatible with ours, so it is simply undoubted that they were produced, harvested or processed...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u25	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask you to remain calm in the hall. Let's wait for the coworkers and colleagues to calm down... You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u26	Thank you. So either we are going to launch products on the European market that meet all the criteria and strict criteria - and that is so good, for example in the food industry - or we are going to push for some exceptions at once. And there I wonder if we will apply similar double standards to investment incentives, in other words, whether large international corporations - and I have nothing against them if they are here to tax their income properly and not to issue dividends abroad - will they have the same opportunity to obtain investment incentives as those small or medium-sized entrepreneurs. So then, with a calm conscience, if these conditions are met, we can let public resources in this direction and motivate entrepreneurs to create a multiplier effect and bring their capital, innovation and jobs to our environment, although unemployment in the Czech Republic is one of the lowest... [[Mrs Schiller off the microphone: the lowest.]] ...or the lowest, yes, thank you. We at the University of Economics taught that natural unemployment, if I'm not mistaken, is somewhere around 3,5 percent, 4 percent, which means natural unemployment is the situation where people just can't work, like they really can't, not that they don't want to, that's the difference. So we're under natural unemployment today. So I'm gonna be done, so I'm gonna be on the mountain again for being all measured by the same subway, and everyone has the same opportunity to prosper and work together to build a better world. So I thank you for your attention, and I hope that if we support this amendment, that we can really accelerate positive changes into our lives and into the future of Czech businesses, because what seemed to be happening in the 1990s and after 2000, that it took place as a bit by itself, everyone, I feel that you will give me the truth that times are changing and that the really legislative crisis that comes from Europe - I am already sorry, I have already said it once - is enormous and enormously burdened by entrepreneurs. And I wish that if we were to talk here about the further direction of public resources, we would burden entrepreneurs as little administratively as possible and give them room for business. I thank you, and if the Minister answers at least some of these things now - and I see that this should be heard at first reading, but we have gotten used to the fact that the arguments fall beyond that - I'm sure it won't bother me. And I would like to see today's amendment, the final version, contribute to the stability of the business environment, because otherwise we will not wake up private capital in the future and thus deprive ourselves of interesting multiplier effects. And I don't want to hold up any longer, but if I look at the energy examples, I think it's pretty obvious. For example, we see this in the construction of nuclear blocks, where - and I understand it - ČEZ's management does not want to decide on those investments if it does not have State participation, because they simply cannot allow the unfortunate reality of the instability of the business environment to fall on them. So I would like to go across the street with this amendment and really work to stabilise the business environment. I apologize for the delay, but I thought it was important to put it in some context. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u27	I wish you a nice evening, we took turns in meeting management. We are in the general debate of the amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives and another registered is Mr Staněk. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u28	[[Mrs Schiller off the mic: Have a nice evening.]] Good evening, I hear from the diaper, good evening, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues. [[Relaxed atmosphere in the hall.]] Vice-President, thank you for giving me the floor. Dear Minister, I would also like to speak in support of this law, because I think it is a subject that is desirable and that is very important for a society that is extremely global and, of course, that is standing on investment. It would be difficult to speak after my predecessors, Mr Bureš, colleague Haas, colleague Munzar, colleague Král, because of course almost everything has already been said, but it is logical that everything could not be heard, so it is probably good to remind some things and consider the social debate that is now opening up. And it is logical that, at first reading, it is probably important to evaluate the advantage and disadvantage of the legislation presented. In fact, I said at the outset that I consider the law to be good and that it is good to adopt it, because I think that investment incentives, even if we can look at them from different angles in a different way, because, of course, critics will probably assess that it is something that could be misunderstood as an instrument and could also distort the market, so I must say for myself that I see investment incentives as beneficial and desirable. And now we're not going to talk about whether it's incentives for disadvantaged regions or beneficiary regions, and now I don't want to argue about it, because of course what's preferential or what's otherwise marked by the region is very difficult to evaluate. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u29	Mr. Ambassador, I'm so sorry to jump in, but I have to interrupt you to make peace in the hall, I almost didn't understand the noise anymore. I'll ask my colleagues to calm down. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is therefore obvious to look at this through the optics of all regions, which means that we are Members here for our regions and it would probably be unfair to look at it through the optics of disadvantaged or otherwise identified regions. As I said, I consider investment incentives to be an important instrument in promoting business and creating an environment in order to create material values in order to create jobs, jobs, and I also consider it important from the point of view of global investment, because if we create an environment for investment incentives, then capital, which, for example, would go somewhere else to other countries or other regions, we focus on the specific places that we may need and which we would like to support. So for me, it's just as I said, in the global world, a fairly good stimulus, which will certainly be important for attracting investors. [[18.40 hours]] In any case, it should also be recalled that the advantage for investment incentives is a certain ability to strengthen competitiveness, whether it is by increasing or favouring, tax advantages or by promoting specific technologies, innovation and, in fact, by increasing productivity, which could also create that some firms become more competitive on the market and can succeed better in comparison with other undertakings that may not have these advantages available. As I said, I see the most important investment or investment incentive for myself in infrastructures which, as we may see, are probably the most important for us, for the general good of citizens, because we have been dealing with a relatively long time with the fact that the infrastructure is not yet fully built and that this can be precisely the direction where investment incentives... or even how to use them. So the positive impact on the whole society, whether through investment alone or then economic growth, improving the quality of life, or, as my previous speaker Václav Král said last time, even touching the reduction of unemployment, is very, very desirable. Of course, I could argue about this for quite a long time, and I do not want to revolve around it, because the necessary things have been said here, but I would have mentioned, after all, why I think the law is important for this time. We see for ourselves how troubled the current times are, how we have moved from the cod crisis to the wartime and how important it is to keep the economy running, how important it is to maintain a stable economy, how important it is to maintain civil society. This is what I think the Act on investment incentives, or investment incentives as such, could provide and guarantee. So I see it as very desirable for this particular time, as very beneficial, and it is good that the Ministry is coming up with it right now - so that legislation can be managed and adopted and applied. Of course, we will find critical voices, given that, of course, the megapoly and mega-businesses can then move the economy a little bit in the sense that they may threaten to leave, perhaps from the already invested zone, but on the other hand, I still think it outweighs the advantage, outweighs the value of the positive. So I would like to open the debate here, and I believe that this debate will not only be at first reading, but it will also be at second reading, and it is a good thing that we have conducted it, because I think it is very important for all of us, because I think about the meaning of the law, the opposition and the coalition, which, of course, is very desirable and very factual, and as my esteemed previous speaker Karel Haas mentioned here, we have been dealing with investment incentives for a quarter of a century, and our economy is built on them in some way. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am coming to the conclusion, and I would very much like to go over the bill so that it can go through the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u31	Thank you very much. Yes, I can see the President's report from the scene. I will just add an apology, with permission: from 17.15 pm, for reasons of work, apologies to President Pekarová Adamová, Mr Dufek Aleš takes back his apology, which was originally declared for the whole day of the hearing. That's an apology. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think we've just witnessed a very interesting debate, very interesting, I mean without any fun. I listened to it with great interest and interest, the debate, was factual. And I think that even the points that would be worth finishing the debate, because if you're gonna break the thread, you're gonna have a hard time picking up sometime later, maybe. Plus, I would say this program is so important, which is proposed here today - a consensus is very difficult to find across the political spectrum to agree on the program as we agreed today, I think it is rarely seen - so I suggest that we continue after 19 o'clock and even after 21 o'clock, because I really think it was a shame to stop doing the best right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u33	This is Mr Munzar. I have noted the procedural proposal that we will be voting on, so I will ask my colleague, if necessary, to put forward a counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u34	I will counter-propose that, if necessary, we continue after 19 o'clock only until this open point is discussed, that is, the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u35	Anyone else checking in? Zagonguji, so that colleagues can arrive. Anyone else applying for a proposition with a counterproposal? It's not like that. Yes, but I did record your application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Mr. Bureš is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u36	Thank you. I also have a procedural counterproposal. I would suggest that we act after nineteen, but only until nineteen, not after nineteen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u37	Yes, that was Mr. Bureš. Anyone else applying for a counterproposal? It's not like that. In the meantime, I've checked you out, but we'll wait until the number of entries is settled. We will proceed by voting first on Mr Bureš's last counter-proposal, then on Mr Munzar's counter-proposal and then on Mrs Schillerová's proposal. I think the numbers have stabilized. I will once again say what we will vote on now. We are now voting on Mr Bureš's counterproposal to act after 19 o'clock, but only until 21 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 123, 137 Members voted in favour, 7 against 43. The motion was denied. As the second counter-proposal, we will vote on Mr Munzar's proposal to act after 19 o'clock, but only until this point, the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, has been discussed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 124, 140 Members have been voted in favour, 17 against 29. The motion was denied. Finally, we come to the original proposal by President Schillerová to act today and vote both after 19 and after 21 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 125, 141 Members voted in favour of 55, against 48. The motion was denied. This is the President with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I respect that I have no choice but to respect the decisions of the sovereign House, but don't complain afterwards. Don't complain next time that you're not in time to discuss the program, that we're building something for you, that we're boycotting something for you. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] Now we've given you a chance to discuss today's program maybe the whole thing. And you didn't use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u39	However, we will continue with this point. The President is signing up for a general debate on the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u40	Thank you for the floor. I therefore assume that the Minister of Industry and Trade will certainly speak about how the regions are treated with structurally affected, and so if the Investment Incentives Act has the advantage. But at this point, I would like to respond to Mr Haas, through Mr President. He said that the public aid intensity for investment actions implemented in the region eligible for aid was admissible, and you talked about the fact that Prague has zero there. But I think that the margin that is there, so in Moravian-Silesian region 30 percent, in the North East Cohesion region 30 percent, in the Northwest 40 percent and in the other regions there are about 25 percent. And if you practically look at the fact that if a small or medium-sized entrepreneur takes place, the allowable public support rate is increased by another 20 percentage points, but the aid intensity is in some volume and then it's a percentage. But we are primarily having fun because this government said so, and so does the President, that the three structurally affected regions - and it is true - need help, and that is where the investment incentives with added value should primarily be directed, so I ask how it is treated in this law, so that the scissors do not really open up and that these structurally affected regions do not rise and structurally affected regions will not be in the future. So I expect a speech by the Minister of Industry and Trade to respond adequately, and if he doesn't answer and it doesn't answer in that bill, I'm going to demand that the law be recast, because structurally affected regions need value-added investors, and it should already be written and treated in this law, so that the investment incentives primarily go to these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u41	In fact, Mr Haas is reporting. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u42	Thank you very much. I will certainly not use those two minutes, only to respond to the words of my esteemed colleague, through you, Mr President, my colleague Mračková Vildumetzová. In the speech, I responded only to the fact that my colleague said that the current legislation in the Czech Republic, I mean the regulation of public incentives, does not favour structurally affected regions. So I wanted, for example, the Government Decree 428/2021 Coll. state that this is not objective information, that the advantage already exists today in the so-called map of structurally affected regions and at the maximum level of public support by the very percentages. And the second point, which I hope to support is that, even in practice, support for structurally affected regions exists, I will give three figures. The total number of investment incentives for their duration in the Czech Republic is 1,320 to date, drawn from data from CzechInvest, and in the first two places there are very significantly two structurally affected regions, Ústecký with 204 investment incentives, Moravian-Silesian with 199 investment incentives - realized, approved, implemented. I agree with you - but there may be other reasons I do not want to speculate about - that the Karlovy Vary Region is not at the forefront, but the two structurally affected regions are the best of the steamer according to the official statistics of CzechInvest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u43	Thank you. No one is to be heard in the general debate at the moment - Mrs Vildumetzová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u44	Again, I call on the Minister of Industry and Trade - a number of questions have been raised here, both from the opposition, from me, but also from the coalition Members, Jan Bureš and other Members, and I call on you, Minister, you are the Minister of Industry and Trade, Members - we are discussing the Act on investment incentives, you have been asked a number of questions here, and I ask you to answer these questions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u45	With a factual point, Mrs Oulehlová is now reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u46	Hello, esteemed colleagues. According to the European Committee of the Regions, which is an advisory body of the European Union, the fastest pooring regions of the Karlovy Vary and Ústí region are. And I've said it here before, every state is as strong as its weakest region. Unfortunately, we in the Karlovy Vary Region have the black Petr, and we need help. We need help most from all over the Czech Republic. From our regions, the three affected, we've been together for years... with us it was mined, we took care of the whole Czech Republic. Now, Minister, we need help, and I ask you too much to help us and to make it very clear to us how you plan to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u47	Thank you, Madame. There's no actual application... In the debate, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová repeatedly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u48	Again, I call on the Minister of Industry and Trade to answer all the questions that have been raised here by Members, both from the opposition and from the coalition. Minister, you are Minister of Industry and Trade, I call you once again, we are discussing the Act on Investment Incentives - I simply take it that you do not want to answer those questions from fellow Members, and I think that this should simply not be done by the Minister, that the debate is under way here and that we should get the answers to those questions. So at this point, I would like to propose that the law return to your work, so that all the questions that have been raised here by the structurally affected regions and other questions, so that you can complete it and bring it back to us in the form of those questions that have been raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u49	At this point, Mr Vomáčka is reporting with a factual remark. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u50	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to follow up on the words of my previous speaker, through the President, Mrs Vildumetzová, a colleague. She spoke and called on the Minister on behalf of not only opposition parties, but also coalitions - so I do not call on him. I'm a coalition and I don't challenge him. And please don't argue with our voices, and don't challenge us, speak for yourselves for the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u51	There. Another factual point, Mr králíček. I'm just pointing out that I'm gonna have to interrupt our meeting at 7:00. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u52	I have to respond to Mr. Vomáčka, there is no other way, through - I have not yet finished the sentence, you are too fast, my colleague - through Mr. Skopeček. [[Member of the Vodáčka from the bench: Through.]] [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] I just wanted to - and now I don't mean it badly - but especially Minister Stanjura always tells us when to ask questions and when to discuss the three readings. And he mostly said that the discussion was to be held at first reading. And I'm asking, when is this debate going to take place? So when asked, in particular, the opposition Members, for whom I speak, but the questions, as Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková said, fell from the mouth of the coalition. But of course I don't want to speak for you like you told me, but we asked. So I'm asking the Minister, I'm asking the five-calice presidents, so when is this law going to be discussed? Because if we ask at second reading, you'll tell us it's wrong if we ask at third reading, you'll laugh at us that it's too late. And, as Minister Stanjura says, in particular, I remember his words, the third reading is about voting in particular. Then tell us when we can kindly ask the Minister about the plenary and if he will ever answer us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u53	Your speech raised further factual points, Mr Juchelka. I'm just warning him he's probably not gonna be able to use the full two minutes. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u54	I am very sorry, I want to stand up for my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, because the first reading really should be for discussion. To Mr Vomáček: if, of course, the coalition Members, through Mr President, meet, perhaps somewhere in a restaurant like Mr Král, through Mr President or Mr Haas, through Mr President, with the Minister and there to explain it, this is not really the real debate that should be held here in Parliament. So I believe that the Minister - because I suspect he doesn't know the bowels of the law - will learn it, and he will be very happy to answer those questions next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-007-018.u55	It's 7:00 p.m., Mr. Colleague, I have to interrupt. It is 19 o'clock, I am interrupting the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow, that is Wednesday 31 May until 9 o'clock, and I remind you that on the basis of the agreement of the Gremium in about five minutes we will formally begin and end the suspended 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
