ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u1	89. Government bill amending Act No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties and in political movements, as amended /German press 312/ - third reading I would ask that Mr Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan and rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Radovan Vích, take the position at the rapporteur's table. Thank you for being here. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 312/3, which was delivered on 16 December 2022. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 312/4. And now I will ask the plaintiff, is he interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, colleagues, very briefly. The Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and Political Movements is in third reading. This proposal was drawn up on the basis of an evaluation of the current functioning of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements, where it proved necessary to make an explicit adjustment to the internal rules of operation of the Office. I would like to say that this material is transiting through the parliamentary periods, as the proposed legislation was adopted after a detailed evaluation of the current functioning of the Office and by the resolution of the Supervisory Committee in the Chamber of Deputies of 4 February 2021, the Minister of Interior was invited to prepare an amendment to the law. So the former Minister of the Interior did not make it, but we responded to the resolution of the Supervisory Committee from the previous parliamentary term, i.e. it is a kind of continuity, so I would assume that the discussions in this respect will also be conducted in a factual and rational manner. With regard to the various amendments, which are four, I will comment on them, if appropriate, in the context of a detailed debate. I just once again submit that the main principle of the proposed changes is to strengthen the collective element in the leadership of the office. To this end, it is proposed to establish the College of the Office as the senior body of the Office, composed of both the President and the members of the Office. So much for a brief recap for the needs of a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u3	Thank you. I'm just saying, I have an interest in a point of fact here, but we're not yet in the debate, so I have to delete it, and then in the debate, please. And I am opening the debate right now, because the rapporteur can, if he is interested, speak in an open debate if you want. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would simply like to point out that, after second reading at its 15th meeting on 19 January, the Supervisory Committee dealt with this draft law, which, in the resolution, recommended the order to vote on the four amendments, as well as the position it took on the various amendments, stating that everything is mentioned in the Parliamentary press no. 312/4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u5	Thank you, too. Now the debate is open, I have no application with priority rights. I see - so President Jakub Michálek with priority rights and then duly logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u6	Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, honourable colleagues, a conflict of interest has already been said everywhere and everything, so I will not keep you long either. I wanted to ask you to support my amendment, which is under letter d, which tightens the rules against conflicts of interest. I have three arguments. Firstly, we promised in elections to citizens that we would improve safeguards against conflicts of interest, and they gave us a mandate to do so. We have therefore also written in the Government's programming statement. Secondly, people need to restore confidence that politicians go into politics to improve things, not pass orders, subsidies, and dig in. And thirdly, when we already have some principles in the law, in this case, in the law on conflict of interest, that is that a politician should not rule simultaneously and at the same time collect money from these public sources and that he does not own the media, then we must make sure that this law is enforceable. The essence of my amendment lies in two changes. Firstly, it will no longer be considered whether a company through which subsidies are paid, for example, is controlled by a public official, but the concept of a real owner will be used, which is a concept used by legislation against money laundering, which banks use and which cannot simply be circumvented. Secondly, in cases where there is a breach of the provisions of the law, the Office will be able to order decisions to take the property steps that will lead to correction. Two objections were raised against my proposal. First of all, some critics say it's an unconstitutional sticker. I believe that this designation is sometimes overused here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the public space. I'll remind you that the same critics said that the previous amendment to the conflict of interest law itself was unconstitutional, but the Constitutional Court has sanctified it. My proposal is not an adhesive for the simple reason that it has a close relationship with the present law, because it extends its scope. Of course, a number of other colleagues have historically tabled similar ambitious amendments, including those from the ANO movement. The second objection is that the law may be against one person. This is certainly not the case, the law is to protect our democracy for the future, as the Constitutional Court has said in its finding. It is also evidence that we are discussing the law regardless of whether or not it will be a Member. We are discussing it because we consider the principles in it to be correct. It is not that the law is against one man, so there is one man against this law. I will not burden you here with legal questions, here I will refer to the written settlement of the comments we received on the inspection committee and you have all received it in your e-mail boxes. All these comments have been settled, and we can approve the law in this form without having to worry about a major problem. Of course, the Office will have to make a proposal if it is approved, adapted, it will have certain capacities for it, one or two volumes, which is a matter that can be solved. We have also discussed with the Minister very briefly whether or not it is necessary to shift efficiency, legisvacanca, so that the Office can prepare for this, and we have agreed to insist on the proposal made by President Cogan. The last thing I wanted to conclude was that the proposal had already been submitted on 14 April 2021. This means that it has been here in the Chamber of Deputies for almost two years without voting on it. So I would like to ask whether we could be helpful, not to extend the discussion of this proposal and to decide on it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u7	Thank you and I note that the speech raised three factual points. Mr Radek Vondráček, then Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, is the first to report. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I believe that Mr Michálek's amendment is either a test - I hope not God's punishment - but it is a test of what this House is still able to pass and spend in some way. Some important amendments may have been read in the past, but I don't really remember such an amendment by its scope, imprudentness, and by the fact that it is actually violently related to the law to which it is glued, I don't really remember it. We were dealing with a windfall tax here on the basis of an amendment at second reading, but I understand that it was a difficult time, or it is still, and that it was the financial interests of the state. However, this goes beyond everything. As my colleague Michálek says, there has been another press here since April 2021. If this is to be a strong reminder and tactical act to get a conflict of interest law on the agenda, then congratulations to Mr Michálek, I think he has aroused deserved attention, and we are therefore ready to speak on this subject. However, poor Home Secretary -- he's a little innocent in this, I know he has to sit here -- because he's put something else forward. Here was the amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and in Political Movements, not a conflict of interest, not a replacement of conflict of interest with the term real owner, who is simply complicated on this issue. And so I hope that we will continue to do so. I'll save something for the next tech. [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u9	And at the same time, I'd like to ask... Yes, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself - factually, with a response to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are currently discussing the Government's bill amending Act No No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties. Mr Michálek spoke about the law on conflict of interest and also lied. I'm not gonna say it that way, he lied. This law was introduced into the system 27. 9. 2022. It's true that his speech was probably prepared for another law, but he forgot to rewrite the numbers, so it's not true that it's been here since April 2021. This law we're talking about is from September 2022, so it would be good if I said something, at least verify the data. [[10.50 hours]] I just wanted to say, we're not discussing the conflict of interest law. We are discussing the law on association in political parties. My colleague Michálek mentioned the government's programming statement, I'm glad. There is a proper legislative process and what the coalition decides will go through the proper process, that the government will submit the proposal. So I do not know that a colleague of Michálek would be a government and that such an adhesive could be considered a proper legislative process. I will comment on other things in the debate, because I am prepared to do so, and I will not delay it in a factual point. So let them learn to read, and September 2022 isn't April 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u11	Thank you for keeping time. Now with Mrs Berenika Peštová in fact, Mr Vondráček will be prepared once more. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I find it difficult to respond to Mr Michálek, through Madam President, when he cowardly escaped, so I look at the empty bench and I would like to have him here. Now that we have something to talk about, I'd like to hear his feedback. Mr. Michálek, when I look at him, his CV, when I look at what he's done in his life, I see a big zero. The fact that he graduated - we all graduated, but there's nothing there. His obsession with Babiš is unbelievable, it's really a diagnosis. That's a normal diagnosis. He should be treated by now. [[Let's hear it from the left.]] I have criticized here several times that you do not make laws by a proper legislative process, that is, they do not go into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, they are not properly settled, you put it here as amendments or, respectively, the activity of Members always so that someone does not accidentally tear it up in the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, you do not go through the Government Legislative Council as you should go to the various committees, but as if you will raise it, you will raise it, and you will put stickers here! Well, that's beautiful. So, not only are you abusing the legislative process, but you're still going to put stickers in here, and you're going to hack into other laws through one law. I would really love for Mr. Michálek to find the courage to sit here when something always barks like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u13	Thank you. Now, with de facto not only Mr Radek Vondráček, there are further entries. Mr. Nacher will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u14	I didn't finish it, maybe I'll put the debate back a little bit before Berenika moved it. Really, I'm gonna take that as some kind of tactical strategic attempt to get back into the game of debate about the conflict of interest law, and in that case, I admit it's a smart move. But please, the sticker we have here today is not really fit to be approved at third reading and to become legislation for this country to be part of the Czech rule of law. There really are flaws, it's preconceived, and it's potentially very dangerous. Among other things, there are the powers of the Office for the Management of Political Parties - and you all know and we are all to some extent critics of the institution, because when we adopted the law, we probably imagined it a little differently - and without personnel security, financial security, without thought, you would like to give this office the opportunity to bring lawsuits and intervene in administrative proceedings. Next thing you know, there's a problem with retroactivity. We will have plenty of time to talk about this, but I would like to call on the legal knowledge and education of Minister Šalomoun, who sits here, I would like to call on the legal consciousness of Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek and anyone who simply has some experience with legislation that has some legal education. Really, you can't let this go, Minister. Too much is too much. So let's discuss the conflict of interest, let's go back to the debate we interrupted last year because there were more serious questions in the House, and because this debate, which is going to be, was blocking us from normal negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Patrik Nacher. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u16	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Maybe I'll join the debate. I am not an expert on this issue, but I have now had to respond to my colleague Michálek about whether or not it is a sticker. I'm gonna help myself with my favorite double standard here. This is a sample sticker. I'll remind you when you told me here in the last term that you wouldn't vote for the sticker, even though you would theoretically agree to it, and that was an amendment to the trade law that dealt with the theme of guides. It's the umbrellas, that's what we do in Prague. And I uploaded, even after the agreement, a changeling that would empower the municipalities to settle short-term accommodations. It was also about the trade code. But you told me at the time that you wouldn't support it, because it's a label that doesn't concern the guides, I remember, but it's affecting one law, and yet it was supposed to be a sticker. And I, with this short-term accommodation, you know, I've been bugging the quotes all last year. You guys haven't put this in my place once. In this case, it's two completely different laws. It wasn't a sticker for me before, but he got a sticker saying it was a sticker, and you didn't support it. Now it's an exemplary label, the conflict of interest law and the association law in political parties and political movements are completely different things. So, colleagues, at least be consistent about this. If you don't believe me, look at the log, see how you voted, how you justified your disagreement with my proposal, and both concerned the trade code. So I'm gonna ask you - I'm telling my colleague Michálek here, he's not sitting here anyway, so it doesn't matter, but at least it's in the log and he can read it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u17	Thank you. I'm going to ask you very much to keep time with the actual ones. Mr Jan Berki is now also signed up with a factual response to the debate. Then Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u18	Madam Vice-President, my dear colleagues, allow me to respond to my colleague, Berenika Peštová, through you. Now that she's calling us to a sophisticated debate here, to deal with the opposition, I'd like to ask her not to use it right at the beginning, and I'm responding to the first part of her performance, a typical communication foul. Instead of focusing on the content itself, it disrespects the argumenter. I think it is not your place to judge whether a colleague of Michálek has achieved something or not, the legitimacy of his speech is that he was elected in the election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u19	Thank you. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová. Mr Radek Vondráček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So I originally wanted to respond to the absent Mr Michálek, but Mr Berki was the last, so I will comment on him. I responded to the content of his performance. You have not heard, Mr President, through Madam President, how he has called on the Ministry to exploit it, to make - I do not know - a milk cow or what it was said here? I mean, he said it here -- I was just reacting to the fact that he's attacking someone who at least has something behind him, whereas there's nothing behind him. Yes, there are two extra ministries and all the pirát after all the ministries. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u21	Thank you for keeping time. I will ask Mr Radek Vondráček with his factual response to the debate. Mr Robert králíček will then be prepared and the actual marathon will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u22	Thank you for the floor. I didn't get to finish that in the previous factual remark. And he came to me Pavel Blažek, he didn't hear me before. I have invoked his legal awareness here, whether he really thinks that for such an sticker, which gives questionable powers to the Office for the Supervisory of Political Parties, if he really, as Minister of Justice, is willing to raise his hand. Because I think there should be some sort of underlying immune response here, some sort of basal, this honored gathering here. The House should really at least reject the biggest nonsense by nature. If it is, then, a strategic step by Mr Michálek to resolve a conflict of interest - that is what I said, let me admit it, that was not a bad idea - but please, this amendment really is not. This cannot be passed, it cannot become part of the Czech rule of law. Do we really want him to sue for annulment of the legal proceedings here at the Office for the Management of Political Parties? Do we really want him to intervene in administrative proceedings? You know very well when we passed the law - and I had a lot of amendments there - I consider it part of my child and I have a lot of it in the law that I created - do you think the office works perfectly? Do you know where this will lead with their interpretation of the real owner, the person close to him, where there is simply no way of assessing whether he is really close to the divorced husband or sibling I haven't seen in 20 years, so on and so on? They get a whip in their hand and they can basically attack anyone. That's the problem with the legal standard, which is always focused on just one person, that it then sucks, it doesn't work. Please, let's get this back to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u23	I will just ask very much, let us respond to the debate. For opinions is the next properly logged moment. Please, Mr Robert Králíček, Mrs Věra Adámková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u24	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be very brief and brief to respond to Mr Berki. Mr President, you know, I'm getting awfully irritated when you from the coalition come and start teaching us how to treat you beautifully, how to react, how Mrs Berenika Peštová should not be personal and so on. You know what, first read Twitter to your colleagues. Look at Mr. Michálek here, looking scornful when Mr. Vondráček speaks, and then plow us around, not before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Věra Adámková, Mr Jan Berki will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a brief remark on Mr Berki's speech. It has not been so long since someone from the coalition - and I do not want to be at all addressed - has taken the liberty of making one comment here that was completely unworthy of this court, and that is, in fact, that there is an unelected Member, Mrs Balaštíková. That seemed like a very funny thing to you, amazing. I just want to say that you have completely underestimated the results of the elections, and I wonder why you have not submitted a protest, because the Member has been fully elected. So it was an attempt on your part to do something that doesn't really belong in this courtroom. Now you're wondering if one of my colleagues here is saying something directly. Please, first learn to speak, see what you have said and what you haven't said, and then maybe we can talk. Otherwise, I think that really similar invectives are rather from the right side, not from the left side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u27	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Berki, Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u28	Madam Vice-President, by your means I will take the liberty of responding collectively to all my colleagues, I will not address them individually. Please, I am responsible for my actions, my statements. Please don't make me responsible for what someone else says or writes. Why did I react to my colleague Peštová? Because she's the one who calls for decency, for treatment, and she doesn't do it herself. That's why I reacted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u29	Thank you, too. Mrs Berenika Peštová, with her response to the debate, then Mr Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u30	Then I will be specific, Mr Berki, through Madam President. It was you who told Mrs. Balaštíková, it was you. You're gonna call on someone here to act the way he's supposed to? I did not say anything wrong, I merely evaluated Mr Michálek's speech or speech, through Madam President. I told you why he was attacking someone here when there was nothing behind him. There's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing behind him. So if we want to be specific, then Agrofert - you're all afraid to say it here, but you're all over Twitter - employing 40,000 people. It's that 40,000 households have jobs. What's behind Mr. Michálek? I'm saying that's the two ministries plus the pirát everywhere. Because they didn't get in here, the bullies treated them the way they behaved, they skewed around, and now the poor guys are only here four pieces - and they have a club here. But I'm going back to the essence, as you said, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Minister Šalomoun - and I am interested in his opinion - whether this seems normal to him when we are breaking into a completely different law through one law and whether it seems legislatively comfortable to him. Not to me, not to me! How is that possible? Where are the opinions? I'd like to hear the opinion of the Home Office because they've broken into their law or their law somewhere else. Or I'm supposed to understand that I'm always gonna take every ministry, I'm gonna say to myself, there's a waste law, an air bill, an EIA law, or an environmental impact assessment, it doesn't matter - I've got a water bill, so I'm gonna break into another law, because the law here is from one ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u31	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil is now ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u32	Thank you for the floor. Through Madam President, Mr Michálek, I want to help you. I see you took notes. There's probably been some mistake, you probably didn't want it as a sticker, you wanted to put it somewhere else. In short, I want to help you, and I would therefore propose a procedural vote, a procedural proposal, to suspend this item by 31. 12. 2024, immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u33	Thank you. The procedural proposal for the suspension of this item was made by 31. 12. 2024. [[Member Michálek is reporting for the floor.]] I am aware of the President's counterproposal with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I think it is necessary for colleagues to familiarise themselves with the Rules of Procedure. If there is a procedural proposal, of course any Member can make his counter-proposal, so I want to make my counter-proposal. I believe that the proposal put forward here by my colleague is purely obstructive. It was the beginning of today's meeting. Of course, all you're trying to do is provoke us to perform so you don't have to think about what you're going to talk about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u35	Please counter-proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u36	I want to raise... [[Mrs Schiller objects to his speech.]] I am justifying my procedural proposal, Madam President, and if you wish to do so... Yes, I am commenting on my procedural proposal, which is, alternatively, only to interrupt for two minutes so that Members can arrive in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u37	I'm registering an alternative proposal, so we're only interrupting for two minutes. [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Is there still a counterproposal? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u38	No, Madam Vice-President, I object to your procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u39	It's your right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u40	You let this happen - you should have voted immediately, immediately. Instead...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u41	It's not that, Madam President, I'm sorry. First, there is no peace in the hall, and second, we only have a lecture on the counterproposal. Objection to the procedure may then be immediate, it is your supreme right. A procedural proposal has now been made, which I must put to the vote. I'll recap. We have here Mr Brázdil's procedural proposal, and then President Michálek spoke and put forward a procedural counter-proposal. I told him to come to the talk of that time. He did this and of course you have every right to give the objection, but then. So now we can begin voting first on the counterproposal. Checking everyone out, of course, I'm checking everyone out, please log in with your I.D. cards. Mr Teleky will vote with replacement card number 33. [[11.10 hours]] So I will just recapitulate - the first vote is on the counterproposal by President Michálek to interrupt this point for two minutes, which I presume is by 11.11. Initiating vote on this counterproposal by President Michálek. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 63, 154 Members voted, in favour of 7, against 70. This proposal has not been adopted. And now we approach Mr Milan Brázdil's motion to suspend the hearing until 31. 12. 2024. I'm making sure the term is correct? No objection. I've started the vote. Whoever is in favour of this interruption, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes such interruption? In the 64 vote, 161 Members and Members were voted in favour of 62, against 96. Nor has this proposal been adopted. With this, we have dealt with the voting procedural proposals, and now it comes... To the vote? The MP, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u42	Thank you, I'll take vote number 63. I was present in the hall, I voted against, however I was unable to sign up, sometimes it happens to you. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the record, I was against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u43	Okay, for the record. And now there is room for the President, in the next step she may raise her objection. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, it's simple - you should have put my honored colleague Milan Brázdil to the vote immediately after the motion was filed, as far as you could accept the counter-proposal. Instead, you let Mr. Michálek tell the stories of a sheep's grandmother, as we are used to him regularly, so I object to your progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u45	Yes, it is registered, and now President Výborný is reporting with priority. I'll reengage. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u46	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, fellow Members, by your means, to President Schillerová - this is not the case. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Colleague Michálek and any of the Members - any of the Members - can put the counter-proposal to the proposed procedural vote, also justify the counter-proposal. And that was what happened here. Of course, you have the right to object to the President's procedure, completely legitimate. The House is a souvenir, it will decide your objection. However, it is not true that the President here would in any way abuse the powers of the President's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u47	Thank you, but we really need to take a vote now. So let's deal with the opposition to the vote. I am opening the vote on the objection of President Schillerová. Who's in favour? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the objection? Let him push the button and raise his hand. In voting number 65, 164 Members voted in favour of 64, against 75. Objection has not been accepted. We have dealt with all the procedural proposals now, I no longer see any applications with priority rights, and we can go back to the debate. I would like to ask for silence in the hall or for leaving the Chamber, who wants to discuss, that Mrs Ožanová, who is registered with the facts, has the floor, and then she is signed up with Mr Ondřej Kolář, who can prepare. I would like to ask you, Madame, to give your colleagues and colleagues a moment to leave the hall. And I'll ask the minister, does he report with de facto or with priority? In fact. There's a gentleman's agreement, the minister may have two minutes in fact, he doesn't have a voting card, so here's what we're gonna do. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u48	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you do not have to call me to comment on this, I will comment on this. I took a paper and a pencil, and I'm gonna take notes, and I'm gonna assume that the debate is gonna be a little bit more rusty. Don't worry, I'll get out, I won't run away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u49	Thank you and now there is room to respond to the debate for Mrs Ožanová, but I will once again ask those who want to discuss something other than the microphone to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u50	Thank you, Madam President. I am glad that the Minister has promised not to escape me, just as my colleague Michálek, through you, did as I began to speak. When I heard how he justified his Brázdil-proposal on our obstructions, I remembered what he said today. He spoke absolutely of another law, and he says that we obstruct when he himself puts things from another law into this. But what's important is that I help Minister Šalomoun. Let him look at the government's position on press 110, by the way, in my speech today, I will quote him on what reservations the government had on the original proposal, which was almost identical to what Mr Michálek now puts in this press. Please, he hasn't read it at all. There are things where it is also argued that it will cost some money, because they will have to hire employees when there are shortcomings from a legislative point of view. Mr. Michálek knew all this, but he completely missed it. Instead of discussing it in the law, he put it as an amendment and did not have time to make the adjustments. You, as a government, didn't comment on this, but this statement, please, exists about the fact that it's legal, it exists, and it's in press 110. I recommend that both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Legislation get acquainted with this in order to recommend, where appropriate, to their colleagues how they should vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u51	Thank you for the time being, and so now Mr Ondřej Kolář is signed in with a factual - she withdraws - and Mrs Berenika Peštová, then Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Your two minutes to respond to the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will now show Mr Berki, through Madam President, what this culture should look like. I apologize to you, I was wrong - it was not you, it was Mr Šimon Heller, who said: "I think there is no point in mentioning that Mrs Balaštíková was not elected in these democratic elections and joined as an alternate." So that's the democratic culture you call it. I'm trying to show you the bright side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u53	Thank you for the time being and now Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, who is subsequently signed up with the de facto President Michálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u54	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not like the way Vice-President Olga Richterová leads and manages this House. Just opening up the debate before the rapporteur spoke was a non-standard one. You know I was the one who criticized the government's mistrust of opening a debate. Here is a typical example and you can see that it is up to the President when he will open the debate. At the same time, I believe that even your procedure when Mr Brázdil here said a procedural proposal - yes, it may be counterproposal, but someone can't come to the microphone and talk here for a few minutes, and only then say the procedural proposal. Of course, an objection against the President, even if it were approved, will only be exchanged by the President. I call on you to direct a meeting under the Rules of Procedure, fair to both sides, both against the coalition and against the opposition. That is why you are Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And since what happened here, at this point, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that I want this House press to be interrupted by 30. 12. 2024, and I ask you for an immediate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u55	Well, it's already been voted out here. Again with the counterproposal, President Výborný. I'll call in a colleague and a colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think these obviously obstructive proposals that we need to deal with here are intended to prevent the House from working the way it is supposed to work. I will take the liberty of counter-proposaling here, by your means, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, to interrupt this point in the amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties and in Political Movements, the House press 312, which we are discussing today at third reading, for two minutes. I think it will be enough to get us to the vote. That is what the House is supposed to be from, many, including opposition representatives, repeatedly saying this - please let us work, not spend time here by obstructive vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u57	Thank you for putting forward the counterproposal. So this again, I would almost say the same thing as before, but it is possible. I'm hearing an application for check-out, so I'm checking everyone out. I'd like you all to sign up with your I.D. cards. I shall recapitulate the proposal, which then had a counterproposal, namely the President of the Excellent to interrupt for two minutes. I am now initiating a vote on this counterproposal. Who's in favor of interrupting for two minutes? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? So this proposal... in vote number 66, 147 votes were cast, for it was 6, against 70. This proposal has not been adopted. After the counter-proposal, the original proposal submitted by Mrs Jana Mra Mračková Vildumetzová, namely the interruption until 31. 12. - On the 30th, 30th. 12. 2024. I am opening the vote on this motion to suspend. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 67, 154 Members and Members voted in favour of 63, versus 88. This proposal has not been adopted. We have dealt with the procedural proposals at this time, and I have two Members who have actually signed up, first of all, Mrs Helena Válková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u58	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I could not stand it any longer because, although I am logged in there, and I will speak perhaps longer than you are used to, because I think it is a shame not to share the position that the Parliamentary Institute has drawn up on my question and comment on it, and then to suspend the procedure that has taken place here or the steps that have taken in relation to Mr Jakub Michálek's amendment, through you, Madam Vice-President. I would just like to point out here that we could have saved ourselves all of this if we had followed the standard procedures of the Rules of Procedure. I will, of course, make a more detailed comment when I comment on the procedure in which the amendment, the sticker, got there. Of course, this is a very surprising way to apply the amendment. It is not, and it is not unconstitutional, but it is very, very non-standard, and I would say by my content hostile, and it is certainly not Michálek. I'm gonna say a little bit more about it, but all of this, this drama, this performance and the scene, we could have saved ourselves if we'd done the standard procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u59	Thank you. I now state that two apologies have been made: Mr Josef Kott apologises from 10.45 to 11.15 o'clock for personal reasons, Minister Jan Lipavský from 10.45 o'clock for work reasons. And we are returning to the general debate to which Mrs Zuzana Ožanová is registered, and then Mrs Helena Válková can prepare herself, so we are back in proper applications for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u60	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues, so I was the first to be properly logged in, and I also thank Minister Šalomoun that he is here because I believe that what I have prepared is quite important from a legislative point of view. I'm a press correspondent for 110. Although we are now discussing another press, these two prints are related. Press 110 is the proposal of Members Jakub Michálek, Věra Kovářová, Marek Výborný, Marek Benda and Jan Jakob to issue a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and Act No. 231/2001 Coll., on the operation of radio and television broadcasting and amending other laws, as amended. Why am I talking about him? Because Mr Jakub Michálek, by your means, Madam President, forgot to read the government's position on this press and repeats the same mistake in his amendment, now stuck to this press 312. If we ignore the manner of action - the press as the press, we put it somewhere - it is on the reputable ignorance of a member of the government coalition to a very rational government position. Although I am an opposition Member, I must say that the Government's position is really well written, and not from a political point of view, but it is just very rational. I quote part of my opinion on printing 110, then you will see for yourself how closely it relates to this press. I will always state the point of view. Point 3 of the opinion on press No 110: "From the point of view of EU law, the Government points out that the proposal raises questions as to the extent to which intervention and restrictions on the pursuit of economic activities, in particular freedom of establishment, as one of the freedoms of the EU internal market, can be justified. 49 and subsequent TFEUs. The explanatory memorandum does not give a satisfactory answer to these questions. For example, the authority of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements proposed in § 4a para. 3,to order the sale of a share to a legal person is a very strong instrument which deserves justification from the point of view of EU law in a similar way to the non-payment of a share in profit contained in the proposed § 4a para. 4." If you would like to look at Mr Michálek's amendment, these things are, of course, mentioned in his proposal, and the Government's position is quite clear. Point 4 of that Opinion: "In the case of the replacement of the concept of control, the actual owner of the government notes that the beneficial owner constitutes a broader concept. The controlling person can to a large extent be likened to the concept of a person with a final influence under the Real Owners Recording Act. However, the controlling person no longer constitutes the second component of the definition of the beneficial owner, the so-called final beneficiary. The change would thus mean taking into account not only the position of persons with the possibility of actively exercising decisive influence over the legal person under consideration, but also those who can passively benefit from it. The question is to what extent such a position of the beneficiary is relevant in the light of the regulation of the conflict of interest law in the case of the proposed Section 4a of the Conflict of Interest Act, where neither the property benefit is relevant, as is the ability to have a decisive influence on media traffic, their reaction activity or the determination of content and broadcasting programme.' [[11.30 hours]] Another point in the Government's opinion, paragraph 5: "The government considers that the prohibitions laid down in Section 4a do not fall, for example, on Internet media that may have a significant and practically immediate impact on selected target groups. On the other hand, children's magazines, professional technical magazines, or purely musical channels may be affected." Point 6 of the Government's Opinion: "In the case of § 4a para. 4 and 5 the Government points out that the purpose of Sections 53 and 54 of the Real Owner Record Act is to ensure compliance with the records of the beneficial owners, the proper fulfilment of the obligations of the members of the statutory bodies of commercial corporations in relation to registration and the protection of minority members from hidden asset collection, such as the challenge of the validity of specific resolutions. The meaning of the rule in question is not primarily sanctioned. At the same time, the rule is designed to allow compliance with the obligation to verify easily against registration. In the case of the draft law presented, the same rule may be introduced, but it should be noted that sanctions will also apply to persons who have not violated anything, for example, to minority shareholders of a commercial corporation that is a member of the legal entity under examination, provided that its beneficial owner and the public official concerned is a majority shareholder of a commercial corporation. At the same time, these associates have no means of preventing the penalty." Point 12 of the Government's Opinion: "The explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that no impact on the state budget is foreseen for the bill submitted.' Here I think it would be appropriate for the Minister of Finance to be, because this is an interesting chapter. "In the Government's view, such claims cannot be accepted, as at least the extension of the Office's powers to oversee the management of political parties and movements will trigger wage costs for new jobs and the cost of renting office space. In this context, the Government still considers it necessary to point out that the issue of media ownership by public officials in substance is not very relevant to the existing agenda of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements." Excuse me, colleagues, I'm gonna stop here. A nice government position, but now I don't know how this corresponds to the fact that we're discussing an amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties, and obviously the government has already said that this has nothing to do with it. However, he will obviously be interested in putting this into this law. I continue: "For example, it is not clear why a public official should inform this office instead of an accounting authority, which should assess whether the public official has implemented all the necessary measures to implement the law on conflicts of interest laid down by obligations. The Government also points out that, in view of the need to prepare the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements for a new agenda, the proposed date for the entry into force of the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests seems problematic.' Let the government assess that, and let the Minister of Finance propose an increase in the state budget deficit. Point 13 of the Government's Opinion - do not worry, it is the last point I will quote. The Government considers the method of calculating the fine referred to in Article 23 (2) to be problematic. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) and in Article 24 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 4 (1) (a) (a) where the amount of the fine is linked to the value of the assets of a legal person whose public office is a partner, member or beneficial owner and who is a radio or television operator or publisher of the periodic press. Although the explanatory memorandum points to the economic coherence between the two entities, from the point of view of the relevant facts, the economic entity is not responsible for the offence, but is always a specific natural, legal or entrepreneurial natural person. Therefore, it is not appropriate to bind the amount of the administrative penalty of one entity to the value of the assets of the different entity. Moreover, in the Government's view, it is not clear at what point the value of the assets will be measured and whether the competent administrative authority has sufficient tools to determine such value.' So many quotes from the government's position. I believe that no one will consider this to be obstructive material of the opposition, but I have quoted only the Government's position. By submitting an amendment at second reading, the Member made it impossible to remedy these shortcomings, which the Government pointed out in another press. I'd say, 'Cause we're gonna slide it in here or we're gonna slide it in there, we don't care, we just have to do a notch on the butt. Absolutely irrational behavior by a colleague for the purpose of hunting a witch conceals sound judgment and reason. The laws of this country are to be done in such a way as to address the issue comprehensively and not with respect to only one person. Then how do you explain the actions of a person who wants to combat misinformation spread on the Internet, if he doesn't really care who owns the Internet media, because this proposal doesn't apply to Internet media? As I learned from the press 110 and from the amendment to the pirate proposal, it is appropriate for politicians to own Internet media, which does not affect anyone in judgment and everything is okay. So watch out for the disinformers in the periodic press, but the Internet press can be owned by all politicians - so, colleagues, we can get started. I'm coming to the end. If the plaintiff really wants to prevent the influence of a public official on the media, he should not miss the Internet media. If it really is in his interest, he either wants to solve the issue complexly, or he just wants to deal with someone. Preventing influence - overall influence - obviously, however, there has never been a policy on the media and is not an effort by Mr Michálek, he only wants to address personal aversions to one person. So now we're doing the law like this. Forgive me - for me it is not a substantive approach that I would expect from someone like my colleague Michálek, who otherwise, although it does not seem, appreciate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u61	Thank you. This contribution was accompanied by an application with a factual remark by President Jakub Michálek. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm going to be very factual because I think there's a factual answer to the comments that it's part of the decency. I will remind you that what has been read here to the old press is somewhat different, there are changes in the new press, so it is necessary to look at the fact that some of the things that have been charged by the government are adjusted, but I cannot agree here that anything that government officials write as their opinion or impression and so on should lead to the fact that we will do it accordingly, because the law would not have the desired effect. So the proposal that was submitted was consulted by the Ministry of the Interior. They've seen it for a while, they've fixed some things there, so in this respect, part of the comments we considered reasonable are settled. As for what my colleague Ožanová said, let me remind you, she was talking about the real owner's issues, the two criteria, so let me just remind you that since then we have approved an amendment to the Real Owners Recording Act, which somewhat modified the definition of the real owner, so the argument is only partially valid. And even the sign of property benefits can be relevant from the point of view of, for example, state advertising. [[11.40 hours]] The Internet media are not regulated for the simple reason that current legislation does not contain this amendment in the periodic thousand law, so standards and legal consequences cannot be linked to them. As far as minority shareholders are concerned, if a public official causes damage by violating his obligation, of course the minority shareholder is entitled to compensation, but in practice such cases do not occur at all, so this is a completely theoretical case. As for other comments on sanctions and finances, there I refer to written settlement, there it all is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u63	Thank you and with a point of fact, the honourable Member wants to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u64	Thank you. I just think it's very smiling that the government's position... I just assume that when the government approves something, it read it - and that the government's position is just a figment of officials, not that the government actually discussed it and approved those views... I have quoted these things comprehensively because I did not want to pluck, of course I have printed and I have put these proposals together comprehensively, but I really believe that most of the comments made by the government to press 110 also concern your new amendment and it is quite relevant, which is why I quote them and I did not want to modify them. I think she's very correct on my part. However, I believe that you have, after all, neglected a large part of the comments made by the government at the time - nevertheless, you consider that the government did not have it, that only government officials had it. I thought the government's position was quite relevant to me, and I assumed the government was talking about it. So I'm just supposed to take the government's positions as government officials' opinions? All right, I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u65	Thank you. And now we can return to properly logged in again. Now, Mrs Helena Válková, Mr Radek Vondráček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u66	Thank you. I'll pick it up. One sentence surprised me with Mr Jakub Michálek, by your means, Madam Vice-President, because he used such an interesting phrase in his last speech - the law would not have the desired effect. Well, I'm gonna look away from it now, because I'm sure he'll explain what he meant by not having the desired effect, so we won't follow the recommendations he's gonna make for us. These are, of course, recommendations, albeit in the form of proposals for specific texts of our amendments, or even new laws, the legislative unions of the respective departments. I think I know what he meant. But I will return to my original contribution, which I have said to myself that I will do here as such a lesson to refresh the way in which we should approach the application of the second reading amendments, provided that we want to proceed in a standard way, and not in a way that, I stress, is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but is at least surprising, unusual and leads to these situations. And I will look away from the fact that, of course, the ANO movement is suspected that at any cost it does not want this conflict of interest law to be adopted in this form. I have already said this in the Events, where I was able to talk to Mr Michálek on this issue, through you, Madam Vice-President, and there I said - although I was not sure if all the listeners understood me - I think quite clearly, I will repeat this also on the microphone: We are not against the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests. I know the Constitutional Court finding, which says, among other things, that the control mechanisms are still insufficient. But what we are defending here is too much focus on one person, which is reflected in some sense in a more narrow focus than the law, or the amendment on the one hand, and on the other hand, procedural, inexcusable - we can see what this leads to - the rush and application of the amendment in the last minute of the detailed debate. And now I am finally getting to what I would like to share with you, namely the answer to my question, which I have addressed to the Parliamentary Institute, which, among other things, is to answer our questions, problems, confusion, if that is to say, the questions raised by Members. And I have applied the question of whether it is admissible to - let me also use the expression with a bit of exaggeration now - to come here in the last minute of the detailed debate by our colleague Michálek and to read it, by your means, Madam Vice-President, to read it, to quickly spout out his amendment, which - and I looked at the record, I had it even gone out in print - did not justify it, justified it only very frameworkally - we can therefore have a discussion about what the justification is - and thus the proposal significantly extended the discussion of this press at third reading without having the opportunity to express itself in any way more. So I asked - from whom other than our Parliamentary Institute - for an answer, and it came to me. At the beginning of the reply, which I will not read here, but I will only quote it when it is necessary, I have been warned that it is in particular an interpretation of the provisions of Section 94 of our Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and Section 63 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. The Parliamentary Institute has limited its interpretation, or opinion, to two and a half pages and to such a thin lineup, so I think there is no problem with me telling you the essential content. He divided his opinion into three parts depending on whether it was a grammatical interpretation, a historical interpretation or a systematic interpretation. It is exactly how we teach students, as we lawyers know, that we always have to push the clause through all interpretations, and then decide what we will apply, what we need more if we are lawyers. But here we are Members, so we should think more about it, as accurately as possible, corresponds to the standard course of second-reading amendments. With regard to the grammatical interpretation, both the provisions - and I mean, once again, § 94 and § 63 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure - sets out how amendments are to be tabled and contain the following parameters: the submission of amendments which are mandatory in the context of a detailed debate may be submitted either orally directly in a detailed debate or in writing and, if they are submitted in writing by means of a copy in electronic form, this may still be highlighted in a detailed debate. The oral justification shall be compulsory only if the written proposal contains no justification. There was a situation where we were confronted with this for the first time in the last minute until the end of the detailed debate. [[11.50 hours]] So, if we sum up, in the text of the law, we have prescribed that an amendment to the bill must be tabled or tabled, that is already synonymous, in a detailed debate and can be made orally, but then it must be justified directly in that detailed debate. If a Member submits a proposal in writing, it may be justified either in a written proposal if it is not there, it must be presented again in a detailed debate. So, although the text does not contain any provision that regulates the time limits for the submission of the proposal, neither written nor oral, we can clearly conclude that it is possible to present it at any time, but it is always necessary to justify it in more detail, factually, before a detailed debate is, of course, concluded. It is not possible to come running, to put forward the amendment and to say three, four, five sentences, without - when it comes to a territorial proposal, that is, when something changes in substance. All the time we've been listening, we've seen, we've heard from factual remarks and from the speeches now in the debate, it's obvious that this was a super-sequential, super-meritorial proposal, which basically raped a little - let me say the expression expressive - the original draft amendment of the law, because it spoke and talked about something completely different, and the Minister of the Interior also reasoned. Here we have been given - some may call it an adhesive in the true sense of the word, someone an adhesive in the indirect sense of the word, we can also have discussions on this, we have the Constitutional Court findings here - but in any case it is a meritorial proposal, and in my opinion, as the Rules of Procedure have in mind, it was not justified in the detailed debate. But I don't want to be petty and question my claims here, which I have said, by saying that we are not against the amendment, but we are in favour of a sensible amendment that would introduce control mechanisms, however, not ad hoc, aimed really only at a specific person. As far as historical interpretation is concerned, this is also interesting. I read with interest that, during the course of the legislative text of the Chamber of Deputies' Rules of Procedure, those comments were amended several times, and the efforts of some of those amendments that were not successful were to limit the sudden and unexplained amendments tabled at second reading. It was the '90s, early 21st century. I've been looking at some of them, it's been kind of a strange time when the legislative process has just been rubbed. However, the results of the amendments have only partially approached this. And I quote that now, for a moment I will stick to the text of the Parliamentary Constitution: the most important result of the amendments was the extension of the gap between second and third reading and the introduction of a special discussion of the proposal in the Guarantee Committee between second and third reading. It was just the insertion of that paragraph 94a of the Rules of Procedure. According to the 2014 amendment No. 265 of the Rules of Procedure have been amended to state that partial proposals must be justified. This provision covers all proposals within the meaning of Section 63.' They must therefore be applied, of course, to the partial proposals that are made at second reading during the legislative process, and they must always be duly justified. Originally, it had the amendment, or the amendment proposal, which was then implemented by Law No. 265 of 2014, a broader scope, in the sense that the Committee's amendments were also to be explained and included in the context of the present case. However, the text section was deleted from the amendment, which was House Press No.26 of 2013, so you can see that it was still at a time when the ANO movement was not in politics or at least was not represented in the Chamber of Deputies. Thus, the amendment residue contains only marginal tightening up of the amendments, but I repeat again, they must always be duly justified. Thus, the timing or limitation of submission at the last moment of the amendment did not come forward and the purpose of the amendment was not for Members to understand the context during the detailed debate of the second plenary reading - that was the initial ambition, and I would like to have them work on it sometime, so that Members understand the context, both clearly and not very much from previous debates - but for them to be able to understand the context in the third reading or voting. The result of the new amendment was intended to lead to the detachment of the stage between second and third readings, to ensure that between these readings there was a correct evaluation of the partial proposals for future voting, so in the end it was not the higher clarity of the second reading itself as a whole, rather an ambition for it to be more legislativeally understandable then just before the third reading vote. In fact, the amendment made in 2014 by Act No. 265, it can be said to have accepted the result that a higher number of amendments can be tabled and that it is sufficient - there are mechanisms that I will be talking about in a few moments, which will make it possible, when something like this happens, to deal with it. Then I would like to suggest one mechanism. So then we would have another one here, and I do not want to read it, I am not very used to it - I refer to who will want to get to know more about the historical interpretation that some Members really do not have to care about, but it is very interesting to understand the context, and it also leads us to understand the state in which we are currently, what really applies. The most important thing - and each lawyer certainly is most anxious to finish, to arrive at the right systematic interpretation - and here we have the regulation in force, as has already been said, especially in the two provisions, and I would therefore return to them. It is therefore the provision of Section 63 in the special section specifically intended for the legislative process and in our case, namely in the case that we are talking about here, Section 93. The relationship between those parts is that special regulation is always applied to the legislative process, general only when the aspect, the element we are talking about, does not contain a special part. So we're going to have to use both the provisions of Section 93 as a priority and what isn't modified by Section 63 here in this case. "From a systematic location," I quote again, "the two provisions do not impose any restrictions on the submission of a motion at any time," so Mr Michálek was right in the last minute in the context of a detailed debate. "For the sake of clarity of second reading, it would certainly be advantageous," writes the Parliamentary Institute, "if amendments were tabled with a certain logic, of course in advance of the order of the amended provisions in the law and the like." There was no logic at all here, but the Rules of Procedure are essentially not dealing with this. I asked that question to the Parliamentary Institute after I had studied the Rules of Procedure. I thought to myself, repeating the mother of wisdom, I looked into the commentary Force and the team to the Rules of Procedure, and I couldn't find it there. So I just got confirmation from the Parliamentary Institute that I can't find it there because our Rules of Procedure don't deal with it. So it's based on the fact that I liked that he also used the terminology, and I'm going to read here that "change proposals can therefore be submitted without fades and warehouses" in quotation marks. This means, rather, relying on the logic of the submission, on reasonable Members, on the arrangement of individual readings in a certain set consistency. 'But if there is an amendment', and now I am starting to quote, 'in plenary, surprisingly, a detailed debate at second reading', I add for myself, in the last minute before the close of a detailed debate, 'there are follow-up procedures that lead to the amendment being read, its content revealed and analysed. And the following three institutes serve for this: the institute of the summary of the amendments tabled, in which the proposal in question is mentioned" - that probably does not concern us; this was a completely different standard - "the institute of mandatory time gaps between second and third reading" - that is nice, but precisely because it is an adhesive, it does not help us much either - or the institute according to Section 94 and including the possibility of submitting an opposing report. This is the third one that we could use in the guarantee committee that he met in January, but we did not use it with regard to the presence and absence of individual members of the supervisory committee. I'm not a member of the control committee, but this may be where the opposing report could have been drawn up. It is short - Section 94a says that at least a fifth minority of all members of the Guarantee Committee can submit a opposing report to the President of the House, which has similar features to the resolution of the Guarantee Committee. So here I think there was a possibility that wasn't used by the inspection committee. [[12.00 hours]] And now there is the last option that we can always use - which I recommend to use - and this is the Institute of the possibility of repeating second reading according to § 95 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure, thereby allowing further amendments to be tabled - and, again, I quote now,'reacting to a possible surprising amendment' - and I add - inadequately justified. So we have enough time and space in the legislative process to explain the amendments, and I will definitely propose a repetition of second reading within the meaning of Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure. However, this proposal was not applied by Mr Jakub Michálek in violation of the rules in force in the Rules of Procedure, even if this was very surprising, and this is how the Parliamentary Institute itself describes it. Now let's look for this little procedural excursion into factual comments, and I would start and I will talk now not about what the Minister was talking about, the government proposal to amend Act No. 424/1991, on association in political parties and political movements, to the original House press No. 312, when I myself have some, can say rather cosmetic amendments to the amendments that the Ministry of the Interior has made negative comments, but that does not matter at all. Of course, I will also justify it and it will depend on you whether you raise your hand for them or not, but it will not change much about the skeleton of the amendment, except that there will be more emphasis on the element of collective leadership and greater control of the President of the Office by the newly established College of the Office - that will depend on our vote. I would simply read to you briefly what the legislation has written, which has taken a neutral position. It is very brief and this is the current version of the amendment by Mr Jakub Michálek under letter D. Here is a neutral position, which is called a bit euphemistically, opportunisticly neutral position, in fact the content of a negative opinion. It refers to the proposal to introduce a completely new authority of the Office, to supervise compliance with the conflict of interest law, it is noted that the inclusion of "new competence" - and I quote - "the office in the law of association in political parties and political movements is non-organic, since it has nothing to do with its own substance. Although the President of the Republic can be classified as public officials and imposed obligations on him in this context, the President of the Republic will not be able to be affected for their violation due to his broad immunity. Deficiencies are subject to an administrative punishment regime.' Finally, the Ministry of the Interior notes that the proposed addition of § 13 para. 8 of the conflict of interest law, according to which the restriction on the handling of data from the notification register is to apply only to the purposes of identifying potential infringements of public office obligations, is to apply only to public officials pursuant to § 2 para. It could be contrary to the purpose of the Institute's request for access to data in the register of notifications and would conflict with the main reasons, that was interesting, the Constitutional Court's finding - I sought it out - the original legislation according to which the register of notifications was accessible without another Constitutional Court. I do not consider what we have received in order to settle comments, and Mr Jakub Michálek, by your means, Madam Vice-President, will certainly have to deal with this in his speech, and as I know him, he will do so with great pleasure and thoroughness. However, the statement of the legislative staff of the Department of the Ministry of the Interior, because I assume that the Minister of the Interior has not prepared it himself, remains here, I have it at my disposal, and I will, of course, not only make it known to you, but also to any study, I think to you, coalition and opposition Members. But what we should always be led by - and I don't want to be a teacher here, but we're all trying more or less, sometimes we're doing better, sometimes worse, so that especially those who are regulated by our proposals, whether it's amendments or new laws, were at least a little familiar with it in advance, could prepare for it and agree with it - so that's the opposite of what happened here. The Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements has drawn up a table that it has made available to us. I was a guest-member at a meeting of the Supervisory Committee on January 12, 2023, which means it's not even a month, it's almost a month, and he's drawn up a relatively detailed opinion on this. I'm just gonna take a few of the information out of this, which I think before the third reading, if it comes to it, you should all know, and I don't expect everyone had the opportunity to get to know it. In particular, here the Authority notes - I will refer to it briefly only as the Authority - that the proposed extension of the Office's agenda requires the proposed text to take effect before it becomes effective, and here I draw attention to Mr Cogan's amendment, by your means, I suspect that it is a C - that the law should take effect immediately on practically the day, it will take effect on the first day of the calendar month following the day of its publication. So here they say, there's not enough legisvacation time to take into account the requirements for adequate professional staffing of the authorities, the necessary material-technical security, there's a huge extension of the authority's competence. It requires close cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, change in the systemization of the Office, increase in the number of posts. This calls for close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, increased funding in the chapter of the budget, item 5013 Salaries and their staff accessories at service posts, possibly further increases to 5011 and 5026, approval of budget increases, changes in systemization, compliance with the corresponding budgetary procedure, i.e. the approval of the corresponding budgetary measures, that is to say an increase in the budget of the chapter in the relevant binding indicators, compliance with the corresponding legislative procedure of the comment procedure. So you can see that there are a number of fundamental comments and recasts of the proposed texts in the area of the extended agenda, namely supervision, new supervision of compliance with the conditions of the conflict of interest law and their proper integration into the law. I am not going to pick out these specific comments all of them, just those where I think - and of course they have also made very detailed comments that we can and may not agree with - but I have chosen those that I think are really worth listening to. [[12.10 hours]] The Act shall take effect on the first day of the calendar month following the date of its publication. The law comes into effect when? So we will now talk about changing the law so that, indeed, with these extended competences, or rather resorting to partial efficiency, that is, if it were approved in this form, the very part that would change the conflict of interest law should certainly not take effect or should not take effect, as is now stipulated in Mr Cogan's proposal. The amendment brings, as has already been said, fundamental - the Office writes - the extension of the agenda and is currently absolutely not ready for it. It shall hold 19 systems, including the President and 4 members of the Office, on 11 January 2023. It is not ready - and it is probably good to say - neither professionally, nor staffly, nor materially, nor financially, nor organizationally. The amendment is not linked to the establishment of a new collective body of the College of the Authority. So, on the one hand, we're amending it through the ordinary legislative process, it's a government proposal, we're setting up a college, and it's not connected. It is not realistic for the Office to carry out a new oversight agenda for compliance with the conditions of the Conflict of Interest Act without adequate collateral in the following calendar month after publication in the Collection. I don't think that's technically possible. And the Authority writes that on the record of the beneficial owners in order to obtain an extract in a way that allows remote access, which is what the law assumes, No. 37/2021, which deals with this matter, we cannot yet rely on it because it has not yet been implemented in practice. Next, I'll pass, the legislative technical comments, we'll go to content. "The Office shall assess, on the basis of a notice of a public official or further complaint delivered to the Office, whether the conditions under Section 4a of the Conflict of Interest Act are fulfilled' - that is the new proposed text. In the current staffing, once again, it is not possible for the Office to carry out this agenda and to effectively carry out checks. So if I were to identify myself with the Constitutional Court's finding, which I mentioned earlier, which is also referred to, and was referred to by Mr Jakub Michálek, by your means, we would, in turn, choose the path of an inadequate control mechanism. That's from mud to puddle. And we probably wouldn't be much help if the office that he's supposed to control doesn't just feel up to it, but he's not equipped to do it, and at the moment it's not possible for us to trust him with this competence - or it's not reasonably possible. I am happy to hear why Mr Michálek thinks this through you, or the Minister of the Interior, whose opinion I have not yet heard, but I understand, because he has now said directly to me - no, I will not use it, but he has come to it, it is called blind to violins, but I did not want to use it, nothing is funnier now - but his proposal, the original, was in this way - as such a small tumor - slightly impaired. He will therefore have to comment on this, at least in the course of the vote, if he agrees to this, so that the original proposal becomes what we now have in front of us by means of the amendment under Mr Jakub Michálek's mandate. Then the Authority points out here that the sale of equity shares at a time interval of 60 days, as proposed in the amendment, is not always realistic, the negotiation of a contract satisfying both parties may actually exceed 60 days - so I would say that this will very often exceed 60 days. We propose that the time limit be extended where appropriate in justified cases - at least that the upper limit should apply to 90 days. Nor is it clear to which central administration it will be possible to contact with a request for an opinion on the measures under consideration. Some of the answers that I will not logically give you, but Mr Michálek, through you, of course, we will get. I don't think they're exhausting, I don't think they're enough - they didn't convince me. Next, what at least has the problem with the office - and so do I - according to Act No. In the present case, the Civil Procedure Code is not legitimized by the Office as a state administration body to file a motion for annulment of an act as proposed in Section 19hb, par. 1. I'm not gonna read it all so I don't get suspected of obstruction. So, in this case, I think that if the Authority even believes that it is not legitimized - and I am sure I will also be happy to hear the possible comments made by Minister Šalomoun, because he is responsible for legislation in that general sense as someone who should monitor whether we are doing the right thing in this regard or by our amendments we are creating the need for further amendments, so I will be happy to hear it. I've been comparing the provisions, I think we should definitely think about it. Moreover, this would be an indirect amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, which would not even be admissible under legislative rules. I don't know. It's like a sticker to another law, of course, we can approve anything here. It's without a commentary. Stickers - I'll remind you of the Constitutional Court's finding, because this is where the office wrote it to me, I should remember it, because this is the well-known Plenary Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 77/06 of 2007, where the Constitutional Court declared the stickers unconstitutional. Finally, the office is not even obvious - and now I will quote again - "for what reason the court according to § 19ha, par. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 5 (5) and shall take account of the invalidity of the hearing without the submission of a proposal. This means that civil proceedings should not be initiated at all, whereas, if the court alerts them to the Office, it must do so by filing a motion for the opening of the SEC, for the annulment of the legal proceedings. I may have misunderstood the text here, but it's really complicated - I don't know who wrote it to Mr Michálek, and if he wrote it himself, I quite appreciate it, because it's written in a way that already requires sufficient routine, and at least it leads to a vague understanding of the office. Further comment on the proposed wording of § 19hb, para. 2: "The latter would be an indirect amendment to the Administrative Code of Justice," also that this is not admissible. All I want to do is demonstrate that there are more amended provisions, which indirectly, so that we can accept this at all, amend other legislation, so I will wait with suspense, as colleagues from the coalition party will explain or justify. By the way, I see a colleague here, Haas, through you, and I know, I remember running after the surprising application of the amendment and saying to him spontaneously: What is it, you knew about it? And he said, "No, I didn't. So it's interesting that the translator -- it was a spontaneous question, a spontaneous answer, normally I wouldn't say it, but because here in discussing the press, everything was surprising, so I, too, surprisingly responded, and I ran to who I think I can count on when it comes to the so-called lawyer thing, and he spontaneously replied to me: I didn't know. [[Was it?]] It is obvious that it was not pre-negotiated, that it was a really surprising proposal for the coalition Members themselves. And that's why I'm a little surprised that we've gotten this far, but I hope that's why they're gonna support the proposal to get back to second reading. [[12.20 hours]] Then, in conclusion, the Authority recommends that we work it out legislatively and make a comprehensive statement about it, and I will not read it, and I have it at my disposal. Personally, I think it would be good to get to know it. And, of course, my proposal is going to - and I will also apply it - return it to second reading, for all the reasons that I have mentioned here to avoid - let me say a little dramaticly - by completely inadmissible, indirect amendments, so that we do not come here to face a proposal that we could not have studied beforehand, so that the rapporteur for us would have paid attention to the 110 press, where we would then not be admonished that something had changed in the meantime. It changed, but in such a striking surprising way that even though you compared the two texts, of course, she couldn't see all the nuances there. At the same time, in order to proceed in the way it is for us, that is, to keep the deadlines and to keep what the House should always observe - predictability. So I would like to do this speech - I will do it again, so I will not mix it up, so I will allow Mr Jakuba Michálek to react - so I will conclude with the fact that I will sign up once more, because, of course, I am interested in voting the various amendments that have been properly tabled in time and justified to justify them, even if I have received a negative opinion from the Ministry of the Interior, and even the State's reconstruction does not think that this improves the proposed amendment too much when I try to move back the original regulation on the Monocratic governance of that office. And here I am happy to wait for the result of the vote and it is absolutely democratic. I have the opinion that when a standard is adopted and when we change it, we should not be subject to any panical fear that the chairman would be the one who usurps a lot of authority there. That's why I tried to put back the element of the original Monocratic proceedings. But I'll comment on that with my own stand-alone performance. So far, I am ending with suggesting that we return it, that reading, precisely because of this surprisingly last minute, at the last minute of the amendment applied, so that we can return it to second reading for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u67	Thank you, too. Good afternoon. And your speech, Madame, raised three factual points. First Mr Vondráček. Ambassador, please, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u68	Thank you for the floor. I think my honored colleague Helena Válková has shown us that this debate is difficult and that in this atmosphere it is not quite possible to discuss it in any way. Mr. Michálek just cut it. There are really inconvenient things, I have my performances prepared, but I think there's only one way to do something about it - there's basically nothing to do about it, but at least to discuss it with dignity, so as a return to second reading, for example, to get it on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee. However, I think there is no point in continuing this debate, I propose that we interrupt this point until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u69	Thank you. There's been a procedural motion that I'm going to vote on right now. The counter-proposal is in order... so, gentlemen, let's make a deal, Mr. MP... Okay, Mr. Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to put forward a counter-proposal against the proposal for an interruption, so that the negotiations on the amendment to the law on association in political parties and in the political movements that we are discussing at third reading are interrupted for two minutes, because I think that the time will be more appropriate for us to handle this law properly today, and there is no suspicion that it may be possible for anyone to commit obstruction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u71	Thank you. He dropped the counterproposal for two minutes. I'm putting the vote to the vote, and I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 68, 165 Members voted in favour of 9, against 74. The motion was not accepted. I'm sensing an interest in signing off, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your ID cards. And now we will vote on Mr Vondráček's proposal to interrupt this point until the next meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 69, registered by 159 Members, for 60, against 91. The motion was not accepted. So we are going back to the general debate and another one with a point of fact... [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] In fact, first of all. With a point of fact, Mrs Ožanová. I have yet to announce that Vice-President Skopeček votes with card number 23. Madam, your two minutes. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm gonna ask you for a moment of patience before I let you go to space. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I was intrigued during the course when Professor Válková spoke about the extension of the office. I have already mentioned this today, and I have also remembered the words given by my colleague Michálek through you. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] But I can't really hear myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u73	I'll ask the House again for peace. Madame, hold on one second, I'll give you the time you need. Colleagues, please, especially in front of the counter! Thank you very much. Madam, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u74	I understand that this proposal by my colleague Michálek was discussed with the Ministry, but it still applies from press 110 - I quote only a few sentences, I will not delay you whole: "At the very least, the extension of the Office's authority to oversee the management of political parties and political movements will cause wage costs for new jobs and the cost of renting office space." In relation to the fact that you want the law to take effect immediately, I do not know how you want to implement it so that the law can apply, because if it is to take effect immediately, accept other people, introduce a collegial body, as Professor Válková spoke of it. And I will mention one more sentence from press 110, the Government's position: "The issue of media ownership by public officials in material terms is not much related to the existing agenda of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements." So please, I'm just reminding you of the basics. I really don't know how they can get people into office, and we're really dealing with things that aren't connected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u75	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is Mr Adamec. [[He's not interested.]] Well, I'm erasing you, but you're logged in. Next up is Mrs Decroix. I don't see it either, so I'm erasing it. Minister Baxa? Not either. Mr. Mr. Havránek? Not either. Mr. Šimek? Not either. That's what we're good at. Mr. Výborný? Not either. Mr. Haas? Okay, great, so I don't have anyone with a point of fact anymore. President Schillerová shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u76	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Well, I think we see there's not much we can do in such an atmosphere. We are discussing a non-conflict law on association in political parties that has our support, we would have no major problem with it. The debate would have been over long ago, and the law would have been passed long ago if there hadn't been a sticker again, unstandardly read, unnegotiated in the constitutionally-legal committee against one person, because the other person is obsessed with the first. That's what we've been seeing here for years. We do not want to act in this atmosphere. We do not essentially want such things to go through force because we would have turned to the Constitutional Court anyway. We just want us to go back to the law on the center of interest, the 100th. I ask that we meet as club presidents, not today, but just in a very short time. Let's meet, let's talk about it, and let's just talk about a constructive proposal, because today it's Andrej Babiš, and tomorrow it'll be any one of you who wants to twist the constitution here, twist the basic principles of democracy here, he'll choose. So you've probably understood from my introduction that I'm taking a break from the ANO club meeting within 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-08-ps2021-052-02-001-089.u77	Thank you. Since there's been a motion for a break, I'm interrupting this meeting until tomorrow, by Thursday 9. 2nd in 9 o'clock. Thank you for your cooperation and have a nice rest of the day. Goodbye.
