ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u1	135. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws /house print 330/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Economic Committee, Mr Robert králíček. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 330/6, which was delivered on 8 March 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 330/7. Do I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, today we are meeting for the third time on the government proposal for a substantive amendment to the construction law. [[9.30 hours]] As you can see from the media as well as from the statements made by a number of colleagues here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also by the co-operating bodies of the various chambers, I would like to thank us for having managed to find a common consensus on this amendment, and at the same time to reach an unprecedented consensus across the political spectrum. Not only within the coalition parties, which is often itself, but also in line with the debate with the opposition, i.e. with YES and SPD, which I think is an excellent basis and also an excellent report for the construction industry in the Czech Republic, but also for citizens who decide to build a house that the law will have an ambition to sit well, endure and really speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic with the preservation of public interests so that long waiting periods do not arise, so that there is no ping-pong between the appellate higher instance of building management and lower. I think that we have managed to maintain the good that we have also supported in the last parliamentary term of the proposal by Vice-President Dostálová and also in the final debate in the field of the Committee on Public Administration and in the expert groups to resolve for the benefit of all. I would merely mention the discussion before the third reading, when 20 amendments were applied in total, which were then discussed by the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and adopted by the Committee on a total of 11 amendments recommending an opinion. Here I would like to point out in particular that these are amendments which were prepared in the cooperation of the coalition with the opposition and with the professional public, which is somehow involved in the process of building approval. The non-advising opinion was adopted on the 9 amendments tabled. I have also presented the detailed position within the committee, just to mention some minor ones, which I think should be heard here, because they aroused relatively emotions in the discussion itself, and not everything was said as it should, and perhaps in the media space there were various distortions. I'll try very quickly, then. In the area of spatial planning, the Ministry of Regional Development cannot agree with two amendments. The first is Amendment 2391 applied by Mr Baxa. It concerns the uniform standard in the planning documentation. In principle, the Member proposes a postponement of a uniform standard, i.e. the fulfilment of the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning up to 2028. Our ambition is that this part, which will be part of the digitalisation of the building process, should be implemented significantly faster. I would like to say one important thing about this, it is necessary to draw attention to it. In October 2019, the Ministry of Local Development issued the methodology for the creation of a uniform standard of the zoning plan and the documentation for standards that are not atomic science were prepared by members of the Czech Chamber of Architects. The methodology has been tested in practice for three years on the territorial plans of all categories. For all problems that occurred in practice, the requirements of standardisation or its methodology have been modified so that in practice the problems no longer occur. The Act, which introduced the obligation to process the land-use planning documentation in a uniform standard, came into force on 12 March already in 2020 and the implementing decree on 1 January this year. It went through a standard interdepartmental reminder control. Since then, we have trained 1 041 buyers and designers across all regions. We are not, therefore, faced with a decision in the House today whether or not to introduce this uniform standard - he is already in place on the basis of the decision of the previous Chamber of Deputies and this regulation is already effective - there is only a further delay proposed at this point in time. Before this obligation came into force, but also in effect, so let's say it was a admissible proposal, and there we could debate its advantages or disadvantages, but since January 1 was already a date when the obligation existed, I think we could get into some tricky situation, because even in the case of standardisation, relatively significant funding was offered in the form of grant titles, and the municipalities continue to do so. I just want to repeat that the standard has been here for several years. It is not the responsibility of municipalities to adapt their territorial plan to the requirements of a uniform standard within a certain period, but only when a further change in the territorial plan is made, and even in this change, it is not necessary to renegotiate the substantive solution of the zoning plan, because the transfer, here I stress, to a single standard is only a formal matter not affecting the rights of citizens or property owners. A substantive discussion of the entire zoning plan would be only if the council decided to implement both the zoning plan and the substantive changes that would concern it, but which are already being discussed as individualities. There was also a question of the complexity of standardisation. It's not a thing that's financially demanding. I'm going to do one example here. Financially demanding for a village with 21 000 inhabitants in the area of 51 square kilometers was standardized at CZK 30,000. We have also launched two grant calls with a total allocation of 600 million crowns to support standardisation, so the way to do this is to have seamless maps, which will be in geoportal for the needs of investors, builders and construction proceedings, even at the borders of cities, is absolutely essential. The second amendment in the area of spatial planning, which I cannot agree with at the moment, is Amendment 2371 to Mr Král and Mr Adamec, which concerns the evaluation of climate change resistance. This proposal does not take into account that the planning documentation does not regulate itself and does not assess the impact of specific investments, this is possible only within the scope of the project authorisation procedure. Therefore, the proposal would introduce into territorial planning a procedure that belongs either to the EIA environmental impact assessment process or to the project authorisation process. The proposed adjustment would have a significant impact on the process of procurement of land-use planning documents, extended them and probably expensive them. However - and I must say this here, I am often questioned, for the last time here from the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura - we have declared that in particular on the issue of the acquisition of the territorial plan, the scope of the municipalities in this process we will be the construction law for this part - it is also quite a busy working group, including, for example, representatives of the academic area, ČVUT, centers Construction 4.0, which brings together about thirty entities, including the Ministry for Local Development - the local planning part of the law we would like to and will amend in this election period. From the point of view of the order of construction, it is also not possible to agree with Amendment 1941, which was submitted by a fellow Member, Mr Berki. This is an amendment proposing that technical building regulations outside Prague, Brno and Ostrava may also be issued by Plzeň and Liberec. In short, I would like to say here that this proposal is aimed at the objectives of recodification, including the requirement to align technical requirements into legislation, in particular with regard to uniform interpretation and application. By way of derogation, individual cities can address the requirements for land definition and building placement requirements in the regulatory and territorial plan. We are also trying to ensure that, in particular, those technical standards come from the European Union and, in such a case, for the guarantee of fulfilment, it is necessary to notify back to the EU, actually guarantee a uniform approach to ensure that, for requirements that are, by their nature, even transnational and European, those standards are always national. A number of possible adverse negative effects would then be associated with the fragmentation of technical building regulations into cities. I won't deal with this any further. [[9.40 hours]] I just want to say that the city's own building regulations were not originally designed by a new building law, nor by the recodification of the construction law of the former Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová. The Czech Chamber of Authorized Engineers and Technicians active in construction, which brings together 33 000 authorized municipalities, has long rejected the introduction of other city regulations. However, in order not only that we do not agree with this proposal, the Ministry of Regional Development has also offered Pilsen and Liberec an adjustment of specific requirements within a separate part of the national decree. We are therefore waiting for those requirements to be taken into account by the national decree, which we will prepare on the basis of the approval of this law. I can promise that we will focus, as I said, on the renegotiation of territorial planning. The last thing I would like to mention here - these are the amendments on which the Ministry takes a negative opinion from the workshop or proposed by Mr Havránek, whose share in negotiating the compromise, so that the House can approve the construction law by high consensus, I would like to further appreciate it here. Here was still an effort to speed up the authorisation processes of some reserved buildings, but in our opinion - because these are particularly constructions that will be very complex - in the finals the pressure to speed up the authorisation for specific cases would be to the detriment of the matter and, on the contrary, would put us at risk of these being contradicted in any subsequent reviews. At the same time, there could also be some disproportional grasp where such complex buildings - I will give an example, for example, a battery factory - would be shorter than the time limit for issuing a binding opinion within its maximum period, not the standard one, for an ordinary family house, where it would be up to 60 days, whereas there would be a limit of 30 days. At the same time, there was work with some prioritization, but also in the digitization, as the construction proceedings were launched, all the deadlines for the authorities concerned are launched at the same time. It was a little longer. It was important to me because, as I said, some of those amendments or interpretations of what it meant were emotional. I believe that even the longer introduction led to the fact that some things I may have managed to clarify or show where the path will then lead not only on the initiative of the Ministry of Local Development. Finally, I would like to thank everyone for the proposals and the discussions that have taken place, as well as those who have contributed to helping or drawing up legislative texts, including opposition Members, and Vice-President Klára Dostálová. I will be pleased if you are able to follow up on this cooperation here in this legislation in other issues of the Ministry for Regional Development, but especially in the area of spatial planning, because a large part of the delay - and you know all of you who are in the municipalities or were in municipal policy, when approving changes to the territorial plan, ensuring and some agreements in the territory through a regulatory plan still cause considerable difficulties and approval of the zoning plan is sometimes on the council and in the settlement of a real mordor, so our ambitious plan is still to amend the local planning section or to recodify it is absolutely essential to speed up this one for the construction sector as well as for the municipalities, and especially the residents and people living part of the building management. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I look forward to a possible substantive debate if there is a need for individual amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u3	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Here I have two requests with priority rights, and I just want to ask whether it is acceptable for colleagues and colleagues to speak first in the debate? No one's getting in the way. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, Minister, thank you so much for letting me out. I'm not going to be too long, because me and the Minister have agreed in this building bill that he's the long one, I'm the shorter one. I would just like to sum up the facts that I think are important or should be worth mentioning from the position of rapporteur, namely that the government has submitted this law 1. 11. 2022, we were sent 3. 11. and the Organising Committee gave it to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, as well as the Economic Committee, when the first meeting took place on 19 January. Subsequently, the second meeting of the two committees took place on 20 February, where the deadlines for the amendments were extended, which were subsequently discussed 1. 3. And 16. 3. Both committees last adopted recommendations and resolutions on individual amendments. As the Minister has already mentioned here, and I am pleased that this is recorded in the tapestry, we have 20 amendments. Even though it was such a funny little split between me and the minister at the committee meeting, I am glad that I won - we didn't bet on anything, but there are indeed 20. Seven of them submitted the most powerful member of the building law, colleague Havránek, and it should be said that we received 622 emails, however unfortunately, the building law failed to defeat the legend so far among the emails, and this is cage breeding chickens. It continues to lead. However, with 622 e-mails, the construction law was included in the top 5. So just for information, and I will continue to present the procedure, and I warn you that I was aware that this will be counterproposal for the procedure, so we will then vote on two proposals for the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u5	I thank you, too, and then we will deal with that by voting. Mr Lukáš Vlček, who will present the opinion of STAN, will now speak with priority rights, and then with priority rights, Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Let me, too, for our club, really appreciate the need to find a political consensus across the coalition and the opposition. I think that for such a serious and necessary standard it was really necessary, and we from our club or movement, from the club of the mayor movement and independent, would like to thank for this finding a political consensus, and let this be a promise for the future. Otherwise, my dear colleagues, I would like to publicly guarantee that we will, of course, support this standard, which we have been intensively involved in. We believe that the amendment will contribute to the acceleration and simplification of the construction process, the length of which, as we all know and criticize over the long term, is very lengthy indeed, and this standard will therefore contribute to the shortening itself. We believe, however, that this will not be at the expense of the quality of the construction process, at the expense of checking whether the builder complies with all the necessary obligations or to the detriment of public involvement in environmental matters. In our opinion, this standard brings a more efficient and faster principle, such as the principle of one stamp, which should ideally be the basic principle of the functioning of the entire state administration, reduction of the number of operations, digitization and management time, also significantly shortens and helps us to start the necessary additional investments both in the area of housing or greater energy self-sufficiency. We generally believe that this standard brings positive impacts on the economy as a whole. On behalf of our club, we are very pleased that we managed to argue with each other and managed to maintain a network of construction offices, a functional network of construction offices, I warn you, where certain decisions from above to undoubtedly lead to a reduction in availability, but also in our view in the area of quality, but also in such things as the control of black landfills and generally communication from the territory. Moreover, it would undoubtedly threaten the departure of experienced and high-quality state and these authorities, and this would certainly not contribute to a functioning building procedure. At the same time, we want to say that, of course, we are not opposed to another debate, and this debate is necessary in terms of making the administration more efficient or, respectively, in the territory itself. [[9.50 hours]] So let me thank our club for the substantive debate with specific proposals and comments, and allow me once again to appreciate the need to find a political consensus, including the coalition and the opposition, and we believe that this is a certain imaginary swallow, that we will be able to find the necessary agreement in other important standards, such as the issue of pension reform or the stabilisation of public finances. So thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u7	Thank you. Now a factual point - Mrs Marie Pošarová, and then a priority right. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u8	Thank you. I just wanted to say that our club - Freedom and Direct Democracy - of course we support this amendment and we are glad that a compromise solution has taken place, and it will be good for both the authorities and the builders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u9	Thank you, Madame. And now the priority right of Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, of course, want to say my thing about the construction law, but just don't expect any extra long speeches, but I think the public deserves to really recapitulate all the good that comes into this compromise solution...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u11	I apologize, Madam Vice-President, but the level of noise in the O.R. is quite high, both from the right and the left. I beg you, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u12	... what we've managed to get into this compromise solution. Just a quick, short reaction to my previous speaker, Mr. Colleague Vlček. Of course, I see that you see this as very positive, that the construction authorities remain even in the smallest municipalities. I would just like you to reconsider this in the future, because we have actually resigned to the representativeness of the officials. It's just that there can never be that much in these small towns of civil servants. You yourself said it would lead to the stabilization of the officials. I'm really pointing out again - and now without any political convention and so on: just in a small office, when there are two mistresses, there's a flu epidemic, so there's still "for the disease closed," signs, because no one can replace them. So I think that in the future we could really talk about whether it would be more efficient to have a territorial workplace of municipalities with extended scope so that the representativeness of officials is here. With the institutional reform, when I stop for a moment - it doesn't really happen. On the other hand, we have managed to achieve the integration of the authorities concerned. A lot of people asked me what it was, the integration of the organs concerned, so I'm gonna try it a little laymanly. The authorities concerned are bodies that protect public interests, whether from the point of view of monuments, hygiene, firefighters, police, transporters, the environment of course and so on. And we have made a political agreement - and for that we really need to thank everyone involved, and I am glad that we are talking about it here too, that it really belongs to everyone who participated - that where it can be integrated, it must be done. This means that where the authorities concerned already reside at the competent authority, that is, they have their trade unions there, so they will express themselves in one binding opinion. This means that there will not be a whole plyade of round stamps, which actually only led to delays in the process, because each round stamp is a separate review and so on and so on and so on, and these are exactly the things that swelled the building proceedings. Now, of course, everyone will also be able to appeal against a single binding position, but to one opinion, that is, not in part, to 20 or 30. Then, of course, all appeal processes run to the building permit as such, so all these rights are maintained. What I consider very important about the fact that the construction authorities have left themselves in the smallest municipalities, then in the village with extended regional scope and so on, is that it is necessary to appeal to the relevant secretaries of the municipalities or directors of the regional authorities to actually keep an eye on their officials, that the deadlines that we have set there and which have been preserved from the new construction law to make them enforceable. That means if we have a family home, if there's no problems, he'll get a building permit within 30 days, so that's what it's gonna be. Because actually, because we have it in administrative proceedings, as it applies to self-governing officials today, there's a problem that if there's no deadline, there's nothing going on at all. So it is only here that we really need to appeal to the heads of these authorities to keep an eye on these deadlines, as well as the deadlines for binding opinions or for a single binding opinion and supporting documents for this opinion. Because, of course, we're running out of fiction, but it's certainly not good for the construction environment to run through fiction here, which means that there wasn't actually a deadline, so the fiction is true, because then, of course, it's another field for reviews, appeals, and it's unnecessary to delay. So it's just my appeal towards the bosses of these authorities. What I consider very good is the procedural reform that has succeeded, and this has already been said by the Minister - we will simply abolish all the existing ten types of authorisation procedures and there will be only one procedure that will have both territorial and construction proceedings. In addition to all of this, as I have already mentioned, we have integrated the authorities concerned. This means that really everything that could be integrated has succeeded. A single environmental position has also been achieved, which means that the environment will consolidate on its soil and then, in fact, give its basis for the environment for a single binding opinion. However, it is also necessary to say that firefighters and hygiene are not integrated, because it is simply a state administration, and these will, of course, issue their binding opinions, but will also be subject to fiction. That means, even here, they're gonna pay to keep time. Another such point, which is very important, is content simplification. This means that there has indeed been a simplification of project documentation, unification and modernisation of construction requirements. These are really very good things. I also think that we have expanded the construction regulations not only for Prague, but also for the metropolitan areas, that it can be seen here that the state is working with the regional development strategy, which defined the metropolitan areas in this way, which is why we will support the separate construction regulations for Prague, Brno and Ostrava, which we will certainly support for the ANO movement. The next item is the use of planning contracts. This is exactly the point where the Authority is trying to negotiate with an investor in its territory. The mayors complained that they didn't actually have it anchored anywhere in the law and that they were worried if they weren't moving on the edge of the law somewhere, so here I think it's very good for the building process - it's approved by the council. And there is nothing wrong with the fact that the Authority wants to agree with the investor on how it will move in their territory, what it will mean for the accompanying infrastructure and so on. What I think is important is the participation and concentration of management. The rapporteur has already spoken about this. We really got a whole bunch of trying to break the public out. That is not true at all, the public will of course be able to participate, but it is, of course, concentrated in the management. That means she should express herself where it goes first, that is, in a first-rate procedure. As far as associations are concerned, there was actually an agreement that, of course, we would return the felling of trees, species exceptions as such. But once again, it is necessary to mention that they will become parties to the proceedings, but they must somehow be secured in a building procedure to express themselves only about the matters which are due to these associations. Reform of appeals, that is, cancels separate reviews, removes the ping-pong, it's called expert slang appeal. The point is, it's not really going to happen that if you appeal in a first-level first-level trial, you send it to the county for instance, then the county will return it for some formality, and that's how the two authorities do it, that's called the ping-pong. Now it is set that if there is an appeal, the appeal body must allow it, and I consider this to be very good, because it really needs to identify serious problems there, and the appeal body has to face it already. Digitization - a huge topic, because even if we all mean it well with building management, it would not work without digitalization, so we really need to tighten all the sails to make use of both the National Recovery Plan and the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, so that digitalisation can be launched as soon as possible, so that it can be tried in some mode as such. Maybe the last point - zoning. Here it must be said that the new construction law, as we have it for approval today, does not restrict the role of self-government compared to the existing law. It is clear that cities have the ambition to acquire urban planning purely within their own remit, but there are simply still unanswered but, therefore, it is necessary to focus on this separately and actually prepare it with the knowledge that we have 6 254 municipalities here in the Czech Republic and each village is otherwise large. And I'm just pointing out that 70 percent of these municipalities are up to 1,000 inhabitants, so it's very complicated to throw at them the individual scope, including costs and everything. Of course, the Union of Towns and Municipalities also fought against this. [[10.00 hours]] And just a summary - we need to realize that we are also delaying the effect by this law, that is, with the approved one we are delaying the effect of the new construction law, which will be to 1. 1. 2024. The question is good - wrong, but on the other hand, by running the digitalisation processes, it's not worth running something that won't be on those digital platforms. So we're just gonna be here a little while longer. I will just hope that all the construction offices will be reasonable and, of course, will look at the new building law and, where it is only a little bit possible, they will already look at how it would be under the new construction law, because there are many buildings put into small buildings, many into simple constructions so that we do not now in the last three quarters of the year create some insurmountable barriers, which in the finals would also be complex for municipalities and cities. So let me just briefly return to the amendments after second reading so that, in fact, we can just say to ourselves how we will support the individual amendments. With regard to D1, that is to say, Mr Adamec, the hot water as a dedicated structure, there is a clear yes, there is simply a need to focus on this energy infrastructure. As regards the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration, because then the resolution of the Committee on Economic Affairs would be unvoted, these are exactly the same proposals, there, of course, the ANO movement will support this, but I will not comment in more detail here, because I have already said this in the second reading. I will focus on those amendments that are after second reading, which means that they were read at second reading, I have about five of them myself. This means, these are amendments relating to the specification, the different unification of the wording or to the refinement of the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the exercise of the powers of the Transport and Energy Building Office. This then concerns the compliance of the new construction law with the Lex OZ 2 Act. Another adjustment is that large municipalities remain able to set different requirements for local and public access services. On the other hand, we will also support Mr Teleky's amendment, which, of course, says very well that urban regulations cannot change technical standards. That is what I think is important and that these two proposals are complementary. For C1, I would probably mention an important point, and I would also ask for support, and this is an adjustment to the joint negotiations. It is very important that we actually treat the building process as a citizen's service. The builder is a citizen of this republic, and he deserves some comfortable negotiations. The amendment to the joint negotiations is that when the building office from the project documentation to the first good - and they are very qualified people at the construction offices - sees that there is likely to be some conflict between the authorities concerned, that is, within the public interest, so that it calls for joint negotiations with the builder, because it is always about making a deal, because the most common conflict is hygiene, conservationists, firefighters, these are the most common conflicts. But it's not about sending the builder away all the time, and he doesn't really know how to fix it so that it's in harmony with everyone, and there's a need to summon it so that they can sit down and look for solutions. And they're either gonna find him or they're not gonna find him, but the builder's gonna know immediately, not that he's gonna spend more money here if it's unnecessary. The amendment under letter C2, which is also in my pen, concerns Prague's construction regulations. This is a transitional provision, which means that it is really safe to know that until the new ones are approved, the old ones are followed. It's just that it doesn't stop and threaten construction in Prague. As regards Amendment C3, there it concerns the city parts of Prague, because here we have to realize that if we are talking about planning contracts, of course Prague has very many urban areas that have separate scope, they are separate urban areas, and it does not make sense that the planning contracts of Prague 13 approve the capital city of Prague - this must of course be realized by the relevant council. On the other hand, it is certain that the city section cannot change something for which only the City Hall of Prague has competence. The application under point C4, that is concerning the objections of the associations, because it is essentially given that, by becoming parties to the proceedings, they can only express themselves in the course of the appeal proceedings on matters which are inherent to them. The proposal C5 concerns substantial regulation, because when the law says that something has to change, if there is substantial regulation, but it does not define what a substantial regulation is, it is obviously very problematic. Therefore, here I thank the Ministry of Regional Development for adding that definition, and this is how we put it in the amendment. It just needs to be said that all these proposals have been drawn up in accordance with the Ministry of Regional Development, which we have discussed on these issues, and they really deserve to be thanked for having succeeded. I should probably also comment on Mr Baxa's amendments and Mr Berki. Well, it's obviously, I understand, from the point of view of urban development, on the other hand, we only had Prague, now we're expanding it to the metropolis in line with Strategy. Let's let this happen, let's really try it out, she'll be a burden on ministerial servants too. Just three separate regulations; Maybe it'll turn out to be a good way, and I don't see any reason to be here in time when the construction regulations for those three metropolises are already approved, so maybe we can talk about expanding to other cities. So I'm going to be here on the side of the Ministry of Regional Development, and we're going to have a more or less disagreeable position on that. What I would like to highlight is the amendment made by Mr Liška and Mrs Opltová. We will indeed have a favourable opinion here too. These are nuclear devices at the MIT. There I consider it very important that it be mentioned here, because it is basically stated that if any proceedings are already under way today, it should be completed at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where it will fall newly under the law. It is mainly a core as such and I think that we do not want to admit any chaos there, so it is safe to say that it will therefore be completed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade for ongoing or pending proceedings. It is certainly worth pointing out the amendments made by Mr Havránek, especially with regard to the masts of the mobile signal. I'm just pointing out that we've been discussing this with the committee, that then the constructions have to be allowed. That means they're just gonna have some temporary placement, but they're gonna have to be allowed to do it in accordance with the entire territory. Certainly the great idea of my colleague Havránek is a wasteful living: what we are going to talk about, parents have large plots in the countryside, children can build smaller houses on these plots or simply place mobileheims or whatever they need to expand the housing. It's limited in size and, of course, in all these things, but I consider it a step in the very right direction. The amendment to the overall amendment by Mr Havránek concerns energy buildings, the supervision of the designer, the built-up territory, the shift in the effectiveness of the follow-up laws, so it is more of a technique which, of course, also leads to the fact that the one amendment has been further refined. The minister hates to see it when I call it complex, but basically the first summary, so that's where the others come in. However, what we cannot support is the proposals made by Mr Havránek under H5 and H6 concerning the shortening of deadlines for selected reserved buildings. We're dealing with a builder here as such, and we don't care if he's a state builder, or he's a regular builder, or he's a community builder, so we've been trying to speed up the deadlines for everyone in the law, and it would be a little absurd for us to give the reserved buildings even faster time, because, of course, we also have to look at how these institutions and so on would be prosecuting. So I don't think he's gonna have the support of the YES movement here. Mr. Teleky, I already told you, city regulations without requiring technical infrastructure. This is precisely about not really trying to change technical standards. So here I think definitely the support does. Another amendment, here in short, the Treaty of the Future - it is only that when you lead, you actually have a material burden, so today the material burden is known, but the concept of the Treaty of the Future is not known, and it can be another way to ensure, of course, the transition through or how to deal with the land. So here, I think so, too. [[10.10 hours]] The last two are from my colleague Králíček - a review of the binding opinion within three months of legal authority. I know, of course, that the coalition disagrees with this. We'll probably agree here for one simple reason that if we actually have a deadline to file a lawsuit, then you have two months, so why should there be a review of six months, a possibility of up to nine months? I just think we should cut it short. I know neither of the resorts like it, it's unsystemic and so on. But if we're talking about a lawsuit that, in my opinion, is far more extensive than a review of one opinion, I think it might have support here. And then that's what the public interest measure is. It sounds awful, on the other hand, we tried to modify § 18, just to have a joint discussion with the builder, and this is a very difficult topic. I think I know what my colleague králíček meant by this, that it is necessary for the authorities concerned to have fun over this, and it is clear that if everyone insists entirely stubbornly only on protecting their public interests, they are not able to come to an agreement. So the point is that it mustn't fundamentally affect the environment or disrupt conservation objects and so on, but there's always the possibility that the stairwell doesn't lead to firefighters on the right side, but if it leads through the rear tract, where it's not visible from the street, it's actually quite viable. And this is about really measuring in public interest quotes here, but it's not about one public interest winning over another. It's just that the authorities in question think about this thing and have fun. So much for me. I always think it's right to justify all the things we're going to do about it. I would like to thank my colleague Havránek very much from this point, because I am very pleased that the coalition has generated a person who has been intensively engaged in building law for several months. Of course, I had a certain advantage because I did it for four years, but I am very glad that we were able to find agreements, that the coalition accepted the fact that there was a lot of good in the new construction law and that we found this solution in the finals. And for that it is necessary to thank, even of course my honored colleague from SPD, Maruška Pošarová, just everyone involved - I must not forget the ministers' lords so that they do not be offended, both Minister Bartoš and Minister Kupka. I believe that such high-level laws should be made across the political spectrum, and here is an example of how this can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u13	Thank you, too. I will read an apology: today, from 10 to 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Helena Válková apologises. And now the duly registered Member, Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u14	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, fellow Member, fellow Members, I will not speak for long. We're at the third reading. I'm glad we got here. I already thanked those who attended a lot during the second reading of this construction law. I would just like to remind you that five years ago we ran, we all had a construction law as a topic, and I am glad that we are now getting to a version that will be a cross-cutting Chamber of Deputies. And that's a good thing, because if a law like this is just made I would say forcefully, there is a great possibility in the next term to change it in some way, and building law doesn't need this very system, because without building law, we just don't move forward and there won't be any development of the Czech Republic. I just wanted to make a legislative technical adjustment very briefly in order not to make any mistake, and I would need her to listen to House legislation: I have tabled Amendment D1, which concerns constructions to set up a DN300 or more pipeline dimension, which I have heard that in committee as well as with representatives of the Ministry, she has obtained consent, but we will then vote on the A Guarantee Committee amendment, where the Specialised and Appeals Building Office is replaced by Desem and is partly subordinate to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and partly to the Ministry of Transport. The guarantee committee proposes such a wording, § 32b para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Law No 283/2021 Coll.: "The Ministry of Industry and Trade is the superior administrative body of the Transport and Energy Building Office in matters under (a) the reserved buildings listed in Annex 3 (a). d to o" and here is the contradiction, because we added letter p to the annex, and I would like to say that this letter p appears in this paragraph as follows: "The Ministry of Industry and Trade is the superior administrative body of the Transport and Energy Building Office in matters under (a) the reserved buildings listed in Annex 3 letter. d to p to this law, including the buildings related and so on, the buildings mentioned in § 34 letters. (a) point 3 and technical infrastructure structures for energy and electronic communications'. And then there's another point that's the same at this point. I'd just like to point that out so that there's no mistake, just to make sure that the p's jurisdiction in that annex is clear that it's relevant to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Well, that's one thing. And the second thing my colleague Dostálová has already said about this is that we have some construction law cases, where under the existing construction law it is actually de facto illegal, and the new building law solves it, that it will be legal. I think it is necessary for the construction authorities to have some restraint on these cases, because if they order the removal of buildings, it will only be a legislative ping-pong, it will be a lot of work for officials and the result will be a limited zero. You may have received some comments from some of you I would say to the suppliers of the so-called mobileheims that are stationed in camps. Today they don't meet the parameters of the construction law, it's actually a legally black building. According to the amendment to the Construction Act, they will. Please, Minister, if there is no way to instruct these authorities to behave very modestly in these cases, because if this is not the case, it will only be an extra job and the effect will be the same. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u15	Thank you. Have a good morning, colleagues, and we will continue the debate. Mr Kolovratník is entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u16	Hello. Good morning, colleagues. I've been asked here by one of my colleagues in the hall why. Firstly, I promise to be brief, I respect the political agreement that we want to get and work towards the final vote on this law. And the answer why, Mr colleague: I was the author or co-author of that comprehensive amendment that your government coalition rejected, which you decided to rework together with the opposition, and I am of the many and many things that I want here and I need to point out, which simply failed to work out, I have chosen really the most briefest response, four of them. But please understand, I feel the need for these words to be heard here in front of the citizens of the Czech Republic and to be recorded. I just want to reiterate that what we were working with in the previous construction law, which was therefore abolished and recast, was integration, it was the institutional model. As much as I respect and understand the political agreement, the will that you want to leave decision-making in the municipalities, so here I have to draw attention to one huge paradox that has taken place, and it is a paradox that will in this authorisation concern the authorisation of public interest buildings, namely telecommunications networks, not traffic, but, say, digital line constructions, telecommunications buildings. In short, by abolishing the institutional model, we maintain hundreds of small offices, increasing the number of jobs for construction officials, and especially their agenda, which they do not receive. Here I want to point out once again, you can all, colleagues, see that when the RIA was being processed for reconstruction from the ANO workshop, the original reconstruction, the RIA clearly showed that the combined model will save jobs - logically due to capacity sharing, as a result of job exchange, job exchange and so on. We had this savings estimated at around 7 billion crowns a year. Today's proposal, which we're going to vote on, is that there's just more of these processes because it stays on oerps, in municipalities, there's more officials, so the traffic is going to be expensive. And when we asked when we suggested that the telecommunications networks be here at the DESU, which was mentioned by the chairman of the Adamec Economic Committee, the reply from the Ministry of Regional Development was that it could not be integrated, that the telecommunications networks cannot be put on the Transport and Energy Building Office, I will justify that it does not have the capacity, that it does not have the officials. So this is what I want to hear. You had a chance to reduce the number of officials, the cost of the process, you didn't take advantage of it. And if we want to or wanted to speed up the construction of telecommunications infrastructure, we can't and we won't speed it up because they're not bureaucrats and because it's just gonna be too expensive. That's what I want you to hear from me. [[10.20 hours]] Quick second reaction or second negative observation. As a huge risk to legal certainty and to speed up the process, for the legal certainty of investors, builders, small and large, but also of officials, I consider that you leave the possibility in that law for nine months - nine months! - once the building permit has acquired legal power, withdraw the underlying binding position and the building permit procedure in the review procedure. You remember yourself, colleagues and colleagues who are municipal or regional representatives - I can give an example from the Pardubice Region, where we had huge problems with the modernisation of the hospital in Ústí nad Orlicí, where when the construction was almost completed, after such similar appeals, the building office canceled even the territory of the decision. Logically, the county did not tear down the building, but it was in an illegal environment and did not have the necessary permits. I am afraid that the possibility of a nine months from the authorisation to rescind the underlying binding position in the review procedure is a huge risk and that it will cause us great problems. I want this place to be heard. The third, second-to-last problem I want to mention is the rigidity of spatial planning. And here, colleagues, I will return to these places when we were discussing and fighting for a new construction law from the ANO workshop, so we proposed an agreement that, if it is adopted by this year, by July 2023, just things such as spatial planning - remember the request of municipalities, territorial plans of municipalities and regions in separate scope - that we will do this after a political, broad, mutual agreement. It didn't happen. We have begun to devote our energy to this new text, and it is very, very sad for me to discover that the zoning plans and the work with spatial planning primarily in the separate scope of the municipalities were not finished at all, that we did not pursue it and that we are still calling ourselves again, over and over again, a played song, so we will come back to it sometime next time, in some next building legislative amendment. And the last thing I want to say quickly is expropriation, an institute which is intended to allow other forms of unsolvable legal titles for real estate in publicly beneficial strategic buildings, to be used and used. You know very well that we have a certain way of expropriating it or that we have tried it, and that was by mutual agreement at the time, in the Line Act, in the strategic constructions of road or railway, but unfortunately the expropriation, for example for land construction, strategic construction not only transport, was not even solved in this amendment. It is not in the big, good way that Polák have to do it, either in line, or now in the amendment to the construction law, and unfortunately the information that I have - is only a piece of - that a special law is being prepared for expropriation, i.e. some third, some other new standard, which unfortunately is not even in its Interpreter at the moment. Bottom line, on the one hand, let's be happy that, in this difficult political time, there has been some sort of agreement here - thanks to Klára Dostálová, who has made great concessions for our party - but I, in all seriousness, as co-author of the previous comprehensive version of the new construction law, say that we will not be very helpful and that what we all desire and say in the media, we want to speed up the construction process in the Czech Republic, that we will not speed up too dramatically with this compromise amendment. But to be fair, I'd be happy to learn in a year or so that I was wrong about my performance tonight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u17	Thank you. Mr Nacher has now joined the debate from the point of view. I'll read his apologies before I give him my word. he apologizes to Nina Nováková until 9.30 for work reasons and Michaela Opltová for the whole day - working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u18	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I would like to thank, at this point, all those who have participated in these amendments, in particular the amendments, including the complex one. I am glad that the things that Prague called for, in particular, but also other major cities, such as the integration of public authorities into the building process, in this case, the unsettling of Prague's building regulations, so that there is continuity, that there is agreement and that it actually resulted in something that makes sense. I read some seven points here in the first and second reading, which I basically received as basic material from the capital city of Prague. Of the seven points, six were fulfilled, and I have promised here that I will repeat on the microphone in the third reading that the Minister has promised that the matter of strengthening self-government, territorial planning, will be prepared as a complex matter in the next amendment. So all I want is this assurance that this is really going to happen. The minister said it at second reading, I think. Now he's gone to the bathroom, so I assume he'll confirm it. So I'm gonna look forward to this novel and the fact that it's not gonna go away and that we're really gonna make it through this term. So so much for me briefly, because all the other content things we dealt with at first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u19	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? Please, Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u20	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. Did I do something wrong, Madam President? [[Member Schiller. No, she's communicating with Vice-President Klara Dostálová.]] Okay. I was provoked by Mr. Martin Kolovratník's performance. Well, I have one thing to say. You know, we've been talking about this a bunch of times here, and the whole last term, when we were discussing the construction law, none of us said it was materially wrong. I think there was an institutional problem where I always said it was more honest here to say how we really want to carry out the public administration and whether such a salami method would cut off the public administration's activities that they did for the state like this I would say ad hoc how it would fit the state, whether it was right, right nutty, or not. By the way, I remember the amendment of the construction law for Minister Šlechtová, where Mr Kolovratník, by your means, was also a great defender of this bill, by the way, 280 amendments, that was a benefit! It also turned out that the adjustment was such that the construction proceedings had actually been extended. It's extended! So let's face it, not every attempt can come out, and this obviously didn't work out. And I appreciate the fact that there was an institutional issue in the fact that the municipalities were left with the construction authorities. It turns out in practice. I've already told you how this is gonna work, and there's been a deal. And really don't be mad at me, just crying here, that it was supposed to be different when we had a majority deal here, and I don't think it's entirely fair. I have already pointed out to the Committee on Economic Affairs that we have a completely different amendment in terms of institutional distribution, that we have finally said - and we have said to ourselves the risks that have fallen here, the risks - and yet I say it is better for me to take these risks than to break the public administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u21	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u22	Yes, I'm happy to say to President Adamc, one can be wrong and wrong. I was optimistic about the previous novel with Karla Šlechtová, and it didn't work as we imagined. We're learning. I don't have a problem, colleague, admit it. First of all. But it is precisely because we have been taught from the error, from the way it looks, that we have come to the conclusion - and not ourselves - to the political, but to the conclusion with professional associations, with the Chamber of Architects, with the Confederation of Industry and Transport, with the Chamber of Commerce and others, that further and further improvements will simply not help, that institutional change is needed. Period. That's ad one. [[10.30 hours]] And two, it's useless to cry or cry bad. Yes, I'm not hiding it. I am convinced that subsidiarity is a good thing, but it is supposed to have its peace, and that it is precisely in the case of the approval of buildings, that we should not delegate this thing down to self-government, but that we should centralize it. It is my conviction that I stand for, and I will continue to fight for it. If you want, there is an OECD study that says that the more decision-making processes have two equal territories, the more decentralized it is, the slower the economy, the economic development and the growth of that single territory. This is documented on statistics from all over Europe. I'd be happy to give you the numbers, not the opinions, but the numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u23	Thank you. Now with the de facto Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I said I had no objection to the state administration's performance with everything, but before we reform the merged public administration model, let's make a separate model, let's let the state take all its activities, and then let's let the construction authorities be under state control. Not by the salami method. For the record, this is how I see it, and if we don't agree on what a public administration model is supposed to look like, and so far we haven't agreed on a service model, then please, it's pointless. There is simply a merged model, let's not succumb to the salami methods or to these studies. We need to take step number one and then step number two, and if we do it backwards, first step number two and then one, then we hope to have excellent results in quotation marks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u25	Thank you. With a response to the factual remark, Mr Kolovratník will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u26	I promise this will be the last point of fact in a few seconds for President Adamc. Thank you for those words. I take it as a challenge, as a hand in hand, that he is willing to start discussing the reform of the public administration. I'm ready for this for the opposition. I believe that I will find several other colleagues at the YES Club who will be happy to discuss this. With Mr. Chairman of the Economic Committee, Adamec, I am happy to begin my work on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? He's not interested. The rapporteur, králíček, is he interested in the final word? He doesn't. The rapporteur, Blaha, for the Economic Committee? He's not interested either. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I shall make a draft of the procedure approved by the Guarantee Committee on 16 March at the 18th meeting. The proposal is as follows: 1. First, we would vote on the proposal for legislative technical amendments under Section 95 para. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. 2. it would be proposal D1, House document 2374; 3. Proposal A, the amendments to the guarantee committee, by one vote - if proposal A is adopted, is also an unvoting proposal J1, House document 2394, due to a collision with point 7 of Part G of proposal A; 4. proposal B, amendments to the Economic Committee; 5. Proposals C by one vote containing documents C1 to C5; 6. proposal D2, House document 2371; 7. proposal G1, House document 2373 - if not adopted, is also an unvoting proposal E, House document 1941, if proposal G1 is adopted, vote proposal E, extending proposal G1; 8. proposal F, House document 2369; 9. proposal G2, House document 2391; 10. proposal H1, House document 2379; 11. proposal H2, House document 2380; 12. H3, House document 2386; 13. proposal H4, paragraphs 1 to 9 and 11, House document 2387 - amendment to proposal A, without point 10, amendment of Act No. 47/2020, shall be voted separately; 14. proposal H4, paragraph 10 of House document 2387; 15. proposal H5, House document 2382 - if adopted, is an unvoting proposal H6, House document 2383, if not adopted, we will vote on proposal H6; 16. proposal I1, House document 2377; 17. proposal I2, House document 2378; 18. if proposal A has been adopted, the J1 proposal is unvoteable - if it has not been adopted, we will just vote on the J1 proposal. 19. proposal J2, House document 2393; 20th draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u29	Thank you. I wonder if anyone is interested in a motion for a voting procedure. Please, Mr. Berki.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u30	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to propose a different procedure in paragraph 7 and vote first on the E proposal under House document 1941 in paragraph 7. If it is adopted, the G1 proposal is unvoting, House document 2373. If it is not adopted, the G1 proposal will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u31	Yes, thank you. Anyone else interested in changing the voting procedure? It's not like that. We would therefore now vote first on Mr Berki's proposal, which proposes a change in point E, which is House document 1941, in order to be voted first. If it is adopted, then the G1 proposal will be unvoting if it is not adopted, then the G1 proposal will be voted on. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u32	Yes, it should be that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u33	We will therefore vote on this proposal. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I am opening the vote on Mr Berki proposal. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 130, 166 Members and Members signed up, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted. We would now approve the procedure with this amendment. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 131, 166 Members and Members signed up, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted, so we approved the voting procedure. We would now proceed to the vote on individual amendments. Please, rapporteur, we can therefore begin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u34	I would perhaps ask if there is one of the legislation to make a mistake or to vote well, because we should vote first on the legislative technical regulation submitted by Mr Adamec, which is the insertion of letter (p) in Section 32B, so I will just ask the legislation if that is so good. Thank you. So we will vote on legislative technical amendments, Mr Ivan Adamec's proposal. It is the insertion of point (p) into point A of Section 32B.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u35	Yes, thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 161, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u36	The second will be the vote of motion D1, House document 2374, the petitioner Ivan Adamec. In short, they're hot water pipes as a dedicated building.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u37	Initiating vote Sorry, sorry, I declare this vote (number 133) confusing. [[Rapporteur: Opinion, opinion!]] Opinion, please? [[The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.]] The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant, consentive.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 134, 167 Members and Members, in favour of 162, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u38	Furthermore, we will vote on proposal A, which is the amendments to the guarantee committee, that is the comprehensive amendment. These are the amendments contained in the resolution of the Guarantee Committee, part A to Q. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u39	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 135, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 162, against none, the proposal was adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u40	Furthermore, we should vote on proposal B, which is the amendments of the Economic Committee. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u41	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 167 Members of Parliament signed up, for 162, against 1, the proposal was adopted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u42	Fifthly, it is the proposals of C1 through C5 by Mrs Klára Dostálová. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u43	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 137, 167 Members and Members, for 163, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u44	Sixthly, Mr Adamec's other D2 proposal voted, this is House document 2371, assessing investments from the perspective of impacts on climate change in the ÚPD. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u45	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 138, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 3, versus 89. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u46	Furthermore, we should vote on proposal E, House document 1941, Mr Berki, building regulations for Plzeň and Liberec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u47	Opinion? [[Unadvisable. - The opinion of the Committee is also not recommended.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 139, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 16, versus 66. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u48	Furthermore, we should vote on the proposal of Mr Baxa, Mr Pilsen's G1 Member, and these are the building regulations for Pilsen. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u49	The plaintiff's position? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 140, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 13, against 72, the proposal was rejected. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u50	Another vote, motion F, House document 2369 by Mr Liška and Mrs Opltová, nuclear installations at the NPO, the need for exceptions for territorial decisions. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 141, 167 Members and Members, in favour of 159, against 1. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u52	It is also a proposal by Mr Baxa, Mr G2 of Pilsen, and it is House document 2391, a shift in the efficiency of standardisation and geoportal. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u53	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 142, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 5, versus 111. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u54	Furthermore, it is proposal H1, House document 2379, Mr Havránek, for short it is the masts of the mobile signal to Act No. 416. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u55	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 143, 166 Members and Members signed up, for 155, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u56	It is also proposal H2, House document 2380, Mr Havránek, so-called non-smoking housing. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u57	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 144, registered by 166 Members, for 160, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u58	Furthermore, it is proposal H3, House document 2386, once again by Mr Havránek, so-called joint action on Law No. 416. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u59	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 145, 166 Members and Members signed up, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u60	It is also the H4 proposal, House document 2387, points 1 to 9 and 11, once again Mr Havránek. It is an amendment to the general amendment, relating to energy buildings, supervision of the designer, built-up territory, transitional establishment, shift of effectiveness of follow-up laws. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u61	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 146, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 160, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u62	The next vote is H4, paragraph 10, Mr Havránek again. It is again the same amendment, it is part E, paragraph 10, amendment of Act No. 47/2020 Coll. Opinion of the Committee - Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u63	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 147, 166 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, in favour of 1, against 151. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u64	It is also document H5, House document 2382, Mr Havránek. It is a shortening of the time limits for selected reserved buildings, version 1. Opinion of the Committee: Not Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u65	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 148, 166 Members and Members of Parliament, in favour of 4, against 117. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u66	And now it is the H6 proposal, House document 2383, Mr Havránek's final proposal. It's the same, except version 2. Opinion of the Committee: Not Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u67	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 149, 166 Members and Members, in favour of 1, versus 135. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u68	Furthermore, it is proposal I1, House document 2377, Mr. fucking Teleka... I am terribly sorry, I am so sorry, Mr. Teleka - city regulations without requiring technical infrastructure. [[A slip, a big laugh in the hall.]] Opinion of the Committee: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u69	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 150, 166 Members and Members signed up, for 156, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr Heller to vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u70	Good morning. In the 148 vote, I voted against. I have a "proposition" at the high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u71	Thank you. Mrs Vobors... Mrs Oborná, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u72	Thank you. I, too, have a 138 vote. I voted against, I have a vote in favour of the high school, and I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u73	Thank you. We will therefore continue to vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u74	I think we are doing very well, Madam President. [[Yes, yes, we're in shape.]] So we will also vote on Mr Teleky's proposal for an I2 proposal - a contract for a future contract. It is House document 2378. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u75	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 151, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 161, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, let's continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u76	Since proposal A has been adopted, Mr Králíček's proposal, House document 2394, unvoting. We will therefore move on to the last amendment J2, House document 2393, Mr Králíček - measuring public interests. Opinion of the Committee: Not Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u77	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 152, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 81. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u78	Now, if legislation checks me, if we have dealt with everything, and we should vote on the bill as a whole, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u79	Yes, all the proposals were therefore voted on, so it is. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws, according to House press 330, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 153, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 161, against none. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause for all Members in the Chamber.]] Please. To the vote? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u80	I'm just voting for 152. I am in favour of high school, voted against, and I am not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u81	Yes. So Mr Zuna does not question the vote. Ambassador králíček?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u82	I would just like to thank everyone briefly and apologize once again to Mr Teleka, it was not in the intention, it was just a slip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-24-ps2021-053-07-003-135.u83	Yes, I am stating that the bill has been approved, and I am ending the discussion of this proposal. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister. And now we would move on to the next point. So I'm opening point number.
