ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u1	2. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the consolidation of public budgets /house print 488/ - first reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Wednesday, 12 July in the general debate. I see that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. I would also like the rapporteur, who I cannot see through the Minister, to do so, but he is also there, so the Minister, the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Havránek, is also present. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. 37 Members have applied for the floor, one Minister with priority rights, but Mr Kamal Farhan was also interrupted in his speech yesterday. Therefore, he has the opportunity to continue, and is interested in continuing. So, my colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. Mr Farhan's speech is followed with priority by Minister Bartoš. So now, please, you have the floor, and the rest of you, colleagues, who have anything to deal with, please move into the lobby, let there be a dignified atmosphere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on this point. I'll start from the end. That speech he had prepared yesterday, I changed, and as I said, I will try to demonstrate on health changes regarding changes in VAT, and I will focus on data, which means that I will stick to numbers, or I will try to stick to numbers, taking to heart what Minister Stanjura said, we will return to the data. And if I haven't found the source, I'll say I haven't found the source. So my first question is that it has been said that 3.2 billion will be saved, and this has been repeated in recent weeks. I think this is untrue, and I'm really going to try to make an argument here. It is not that it has been repeatedly, it has been repeatedly said that antibiotics, for example, are at a 15% rate, which is, of course, not true. These things didn't surprise me so much, because sometimes it happens from the Ministry of Health, but what surprised me, for example, was that a member of the Budget Board said that they currently fall within 15 percent of the rate, and what the Minister, a radiopharmaceutical, sorbite, etc. said here once.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm sorry for that, but please, colleagues, if you have anything to do, leave the O.R., go deal with this in the lobby, make it a more dignified atmosphere. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u4	What a member of the National Budget Board said, he actually confirmed it. I don't know if he was taking in resources or where he got it. Next, CNN said on TV: So the claim that drugs will become more expensive is at least misleading. I don't think so, I've opened up their pages where it said, "We're guarding public finances." Which, of course, is okay, on the other hand, if someone is guarding public finances, they should be giving accurate information. And now, briefly, or I have it on one page here, I'm going to try to say that it's not possible to go to 3.2 billion. Maybe I'll be convinced because I won't, someone will have another source of data. On the other hand, I think I've spent enough time on this, so we're just not gonna get that amount. First of all, medical devices are at two rates today. That's more like it for the Minister, because it's quite an expert discussion. Medical means for vouchers, i.e. crutches, bandages, incontinence and braces, are now largely at a 15% rate. The transfer to the 12% rate means that they will be covered by health insurance, and there the health insurance company will save, the reduced rate will automatically be written into the remuneration, and this category represents CZK 12 billion. The saving of the public health insurance system by this reduction is CZK 360 million, which is CZK 0.36 billion. Unreplaced medical supplies, which the patient buys in the pharmacy itself, saves the patient there. But as much as it saves, no one knows, because the data is not traceable. So it is, so we don't know how much it saves here. But of course, if someone brings the data that there are so many funds and so many, so be it, we can talk about it. Medical devices used in the hospital, they are called. ZUMs, such as stents, pacemakers, sutures, are now largely at a 21% percentage rate. This category represents CZK 18 billion, according to the government consolidation package nothing changes in this category, if I have read it correctly, so nothing goes to a 12% rate, so without the impact of insurance companies and patients. I don't think it's true that he thinks he's gonna make all the medical devices cheaper. The medicines that patients today pick up at the pharmacy are all 10% of the rate. Recipe medications, free-selling drugs, all of them. [[9.10 hours]] Medications today are not at a 15% rate, as has been misinterpreted several times. The government consolidation package will move them to a 12% rate. According to UHIS data, which is actually an organization that falls under the Ministry of Health, pharmacies spend a total of CZK 93 billion on drugs. The medicines covered by health insurance account for a total of CZK 65 billion. That means 37 billion, ZULPs 23 billion and non-center ZULPs, I couldn't find out, but my type is about five billion. The medicines that are paid by insurance companies are built there in such a way that the VAT change automatically goes to the level of remuneration, so that by increasing the rate by 2 percent, the costs of insurance companies will automatically increase by 2 percent. [[mix properly?]] That means 2 percent of the 65 billion is 1.3 billion. In this case, it will come to light that the cargo I'm about to say is being carried by insurance companies. So insurance companies carry a cost of 1.3 billion. In addition, patients will pay about CZK 330 billion for medicines and free drugs due to an increase in VAT of 2 percent, which is 0.33 billion. The sum of the sum, if the insurance companies pay CZK 1.3 billion in extra VAT for the medicines and saves CZK 0.36 billion in medical resources, the net loss of insurance companies on the tax package is CZK 1 billion. Patients will then have to pay more than CZK 300 million. What I've described here may be uninteresting or difficult for you. I did not want to enter into any discussion or criticism or talk about the package as such, but I wanted to mention here the numbers and the microphone that it is simply not possible to save on medications and medical devices 3.2 billion according to the sources that I have found. And I say that for the sake of correctness, because we were invited by Minister Válek to cooperate, to be correct. So I just wanted to do the numbers today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u5	With a point of fact, Minister Válek wants to respond first, followed by Minister Stanjura; factual remarks. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank you for that, Doctor, by your means, Mr. Ambassador, because as you say, yes, it is true. Just historically, and now I'm going to explain why you can't, and I was also slightly wrong about why you can't have the data. We have to go back to history. Medical devices, as we both know, are for the use of a patient to understand anyone who isn't a paramedic, a medical device that I only use for myself, so that's what it is for the use of a patient. This means, for example, if I have a pressure measuring device that I buy for myself, it is a medical device to use for the patient. And then this device was at the lower tax rate or the middle rate, because it was based on the directive of the European Union that was adopted, now I would be making up when, it would take 12 years, 15 years. And the second type of medical device, which was a typical example for more people, would be the tonometer that a doctor buys in an ambulance and measures pressure on everyone, so it was in the higher category. It was not a decision by any of the finance ministers, but it was an application of the European directive. That's just the way it was technically. The health department back then, we'd have gotten eight years back, divided the medical devices into two categories like this. The directive no longer applies, we agreed that all medical devices would be in the lowest category. All of them. That means any medical device, it doesn't matter if it's for individual use or for collective use. That's the deal. That means there's no point in talking about any medical device right now. And since the funds have been distributed this way, we've done our own analysis on how much the costs of medical facilities are and so on for the purchase of funds, and if all this is taken into account in VAT and the reduction is taken into account in the price, then the savings will be even higher for medical devices.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u7	Now, with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u8	I would like to say, for the honourable Member, the figures that we came from. We asked the Czech Statistical Office and we obtained the tax base in individual items and then you calculate the rate and it either goes from 10 to 12 or from 15 to 12 etc. So for the drugs, I understand that, the drugs were spent, as $10.5 billion is regulated, then the 10% VAT rate. [[reactions in the room]] If it's 12% and we put that 2 percent, it's 210 million plus VAT, a larger withdrawal, or as you said, it's going to cost 210 million crowns. Then we got information that in the item, and it's VAT classification, it's not the difference between central, non-center drugs and the like, under pharmaceutical products and medical devices we got information from the Czech static office that the tax base is 131 billion at a 15% rate, and that means when it's up to 12%, the savings are 3.93 million. Those are the numbers we came from. Then it turned out that there was a methodological problem with the Czech static office, there was a meeting between the Ministry of Health, which was mainly contacted by the director of hospitals and health facilities, Ministry of Finance and Czech static office. And it turns out that the methodology had some flaws, I don't want to criticize it like that, it's been like this for about 15 years, because it turns out that more truthful and accurate information was provided by hospital directors and health care directors. Then we re-examined the directive that Minister Válek was talking about. So there will be at least that savings of over three billion, maybe even more, because we also have those of 21 up to 15, even those that serve for group use, if I interpret it so well, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Farhan will now speak with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Mádlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u10	Thank you for the floor. So I'm just going to briefly comment on this. For me, it's new information that, like I said here, the ZUM, which is actually the category 21 percent that gets down. That's it, I didn't read it anywhere, so I'm not gonna argue with it, and I'm just saying on the microphone, I just welcome it. I don't want to say I want to praise it, but it's just a good thing it's going to be 21 percent, because it hasn't been publicly presented until now, what Minister Válek said here, and I think it's good for the system itself. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u11	Now, Mrs Mádlová with a point of fact, followed by Minister Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I just wanted to make sure right now, because Minister Válek said that the common tax directive no longer applies. [[Someone off the mic: not paying.]] Thank you. It's rigged. This means that I want to make sure that there are customized items, goods, services and so on that can be reduced and so on. This also means in the exempt tax there are listed items, because now there are services different, postal and so on, which can be exempted, or this has also changed. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u13	The Minister is registered with a factual remark, first Minister Stanjura, so he will answer it, then Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u14	I am unable to respond to every item, the directive has undergone a revision and allows Member States to apply a reduced rate in that category of medical devices for group use. And that was not possible before, as Minister Válek said, it was not the decision of the Czech Government, the Czech Parliament, it was impossible. It's okay now. At the moment we can, we agreed to unite it all within the simplicity of the lower 12 percent rate. The revision was quite extensive, where the European Commission actually gave a chance to negotiate exemptions in VAT for individual Member States, and by the end of this year, the same exceptions can also be applied by Member States to make it an equal approach. Then seven items were set taxatively, where there may be a zero rate of VAT, which is why we have zero for those books, because it is one of the seven items where the European Commission says it can be zero. It doesn't have to be, but it can be. So the change was quite extensive. I am not able to answer each item, but surely the experts of the Ministry of Finance will answer a specific question as it was before and whether this changed or not during the revision of the directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u15	Now with a point of fact, Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u16	This means, in order to be absolutely clear, of course, it is a particularly billable material that is used in hospitals, in its entirety. It's what a patient either gets for a voucher or buys it as a medical device, it has to be a medical device. But what we're discussing and what we're debating, what we're verifying, whether it's going or not, and that's the only problem, and that's, like, CT devices, magnetic resonances, linear accelerators, this is the heavy, very expensive technique that was also in the higher category, and that's where we have to work out the interpretation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u17	We are now returning to the general debate. Before I give another word, which Minister Bartoš will have with priority rights, I will read the apology received. Mr Dufek Aleš apologizes from 9.30 to 11.30 for work reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav from 12.00 for work reasons, Jakob Jan from 10 to 11.30 for work reasons and Pošarová Marie from 12.00 for health reasons. So now Minister Bartoš will speak, and Mr Štolpa is also signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u18	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, viewers - perhaps, Madam President. I wanted to perform last night, as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Klára Dostálová tried to frame the housing situation in the Czech Republic in some way. I would like to say a few important facts about the current situation, perhaps just a little, how we got into this situation and what has already happened at the Ministry of Regional Development. And there was also a reservation that the government was not paying attention to this, not just the Ministry of Regional Development, so it also touched on a little funding issue. We have been working on a wide range of tools since we started joining the Ministry for Local Development with a team that I have created specifically for housing, some of which we have already implemented, some of which will be implemented as we are still waiting for the European Commission's decision on notifications. And it is important to say, and there have been several SFPI programmes, the Construction Programme or some sub-measures. There is no single universal solution to address the availability of housing in the Czech Republic. It's not one law, it can't be a single program. I'm a little surprised when a person gets out of public space and doesn't describe the whole complex, so they're all gonna jump right in to the solution, but this isn't gonna solve the situation. Yes, the situation in the housing market will solve a series of steps, some of which are steps that can be done by municipalities, some steps that can be done by the state, but we must not neglect, and also Minister Stanjura mentioned this here, binding private capital, but also private investment in housing, into the availability of housing in the Czech Republic. Much of the reforms that we are preparing, and I'm just going to talk about them briefly, we've summed it up under a kind of living-for-life term, because that's what people care about when they're young, when they start a family, when they go to college, or when they're working or seniors, whether they have a place to live, whether they can afford it economically, and what forms of housing are suitable for them. Once again, and this has been said very well here several times yesterday, these are the municipalities and cities on whose territory people live, so we need to prepare such conditions and tools so that municipalities and cities can deal with this situation, which is not only due to construction, but to be renovated, other tools can be dealt with to help with the availability of housing. Only when we were talking about the initial situation here, and here we were beating each other on the head, who was to blame, if this government, which is in office for over a year and a half, is dealing with a rather critical crisis, whether post-covide or war-related situation, the situation that we've been getting into, has been wet here or has lasted for several years. And I, when I looked at the data, I mentioned it yesterday, in the last 10 years in the Czech Republic, among other things eight years of the previous two governments, whose opposition YES was part of it, but I do not blame him, in this area that I want to talk about, increased by more than 60 percent, the real prices, not nominal. What does that mean? Yes, indeed for young people, seniors, but also for many people we call middle class, just for people with ordinary incomes, housing becomes unavailable and needs to be dealt with. What's the convention? It is often talked about apartments in large cities. It is not just big cities anymore, but the result is that even a quite common apartment in the regional city can not afford a decent family, because for example the monthly mortgage payment is over CZK 24,000 on average for CZK 3+k, so the problem is not only in big cities, but it is everywhere in the regions. The real estate prices increased steadily between 2013 and 2021. I would mention about three reasons. It is a question of the commercial housing market and, in fact, a state which is not a bank that cannot order the amount of mortgages and actually does not inerge to this part, with so much power in this part of commercial housing, whether owned or rented, simply could not do unless it was building an alternative, which is to support the construction of affordable or municipal housing, rental housing or significant support for other forms of housing, whether it is cooperative housing or more. These three factors, and you can also look at the data that confirms this, were caused by an increase in real household income, which is a good phenomenon when people make more money. However, another 20 percentage points of the share caused higher availability of mortgages, just money was available, whether for those who purchased their own property, but also for developers who took the loan, they quickly built, a lot of apartments were sold before the construction itself was completed, and they could just go invest in other projects. And the rest is the very construction of this - the construction for housing. What does that show? Since these three, say, commercial aspects have been fulfilled, the purely construction of new flats alone is not enough, because the commercial market is logically driving the prices up, as people are able or willing to go into those financial products and to get housing. And, unfortunately, we will not reduce inflation or mortgage interest at the Ministry of Regional Development, we have no instruments to do so. Yet this housing can be made available and we have already taken many steps and in this year and in the next, we will do many more. The living for life has three pillars, and some of them were mentioned by Mrs. Klára Dostálová. The first thing the state has in its hands are laws, legislation that governs the rules of the game. The second are investment instruments for municipalities and other entities. Here I would perhaps go to what was said here yesterday, and I think it was correct, the Ministry is a partner of municipalities, towns and regions. Then if I just go back a little bit to that, so even in the SFPI fund or others as the Ministry, there's no alternative to the bank. I would like the system support to be really systemic, not to try in any way, even if it can be noble, to compete with the banking segment, that we simply set up some, say, attractive offer, or maybe there won't be an income ceiling, and that the Ministry should address individual incentives. I will then return to this in a commentary on the SFPI and on why you canceled a program that enabled people to better reach a mortgage or get a part of the cooperative share - because the Ministry of Regional Development, and its partner are self-government, regions and municipalities, and the third thing that is extremely important, and it is seen in the development of housing, but also in other applications, for example European or national subsidies in the Republic, competence, know-how of those municipalities to go into more complex projects or to go into projects that go far beyond the scope of the municipality's budget, a community with 15 - now I was in Vir - a community with 15 million annual budgets when it wants to build a project that will cost half a billion in the final if they wanted to build a new school in this community, it will simply cost a billion, it cannot go into risk: Here I will start some project, whose preparation will cost me even more tens of millions, because only this preparation exceeds their budget possibilities. So these are laws that govern the rules of the game, investment instruments that can be saturated with the need for construction, which is expensive, and know how and support for municipalities so that they can solve their housing situation. I am glad, and I will stress it again - we were very opposed to the proposal that went through the last parliamentary term, but with common forces with the Senate, with the professional public, with the opposition, thank you for that, we were able to amend the recoded building law and those things that were perceived as problematic, whether it be ping-pong, whether they are the times that are given to settle applications for those simple constructions, classification of buildings, simplification of the proceedings, this is one part that is thus successfully behind us. [[9.30 hours]] The second part - another change in legislation, and this is being prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development - and unfortunately, and I believe that this government will be successful in this, it has never happened in the previous few parliamentary periods, perhaps precisely because it has focused only on the housing of so-called social, which in the Czech Republic concerns about 200,000 people, 150 to 200,000 people. Sadly, a significant part of these people are children. We've decided to break the Housing Support Act. We have also responded to reservations such as the SAO, but also to the European Commission, that the law, which defines the needs in housing and the possibilities of their solutions, is missing in the Czech Republic. The law is ready, now he's been sent to the interreort. Of course, we deal with reservations and questions both from the territory and from individual resorts. As I said, the law is ready, the Housing Support Act, you can find out what pillars it has on the Ministry's website, how it's supposed to work. Of course, there are other questions, some of which cause quite a stir. For a long time, unbalanced relationships between tenants and tenants have been criticized. And I think it is right to say unbalanced relationships, while, on the one hand, the rental housing, which in the Czech Republic accounts for only 20 percent, in other states, in Germany for example, it is 50 to 50, 50 percent of people live in their own, 50 percent of people live in some rental, as well as in those 20 percent... Or the unpopularity of the rental housing is a lot given by a sense of uncertainty. So let's take the steps that, let's say, on the side of those people looking for housing and choosing the possibility of renting and meeting all the conditions, including paying in time, that gives them more confidence. On the other hand, we have a rather neck-and-neck system when the landlord has an unreliable tenant, so the process before he solves the situation and the person moves out is neck-and-neck, challenging. We've dealt with the Office of the Ombudsman, it's only part of the legislative process. I'd jump to the tools right now. Tools that help. [[A note from the Minister of Finance from the newsstand outside the microphone.]] I responded to Mrs. Dostálová, who spoke... Sorry, I heard the Minister of Finance here, I just want to respond to what was going on here yesterday. Of course, the Ministry of Regional Development administers European grant titles, where some of them, headed for construction, also have a social housing programme, which, due to relatively strict limits, is not actually the most appropriate tool to address the housing situation. And it has a SFPI fund that had both a program in it that involved supporting individuals and a program that was supposed to deal with construction. And when I go somewhere, like somewhere, as they say, cut the tape... Of course I was in Ústí, I was looking at a well realized project, I didn't own it, I said when the project was created. In fact, the Ústí Region is in charge of both the city and the region of the ANO movement, and together with the representatives we evaluated the project as a success. Why? Because, after solving land problems, the project has been dusted historically and improved, but it has managed to reach the municipal fund 17 available for about 35 million, 16 social and 2 apartments for disabled people in the building, which I think is a decent result and it turns out that in the form of a good investment in the renovation of a devastated panel building, it can be built for 35 million 33 flats for use, including a room for a man who does some kind of door service. But why do I say that? It's part of the program that was originally on SFPI - Construction for municipalities, rental apartments - and he does not continue because he was no longer interested in them at the turn of 2021/2022. Those conditions were simply not attractive for the municipalities. I've decided to change the terms, which, among other things, I'll jump right in. For example, the interest of over 6% and the result of the construction programme, the credit part for available flats for 2022, was the only application for the construction of 24 flats, which the applicant later withdrew, indicating that the programme was not completely successful, it was rather a shame. As part of the program, there have been some 330 flats in the last three years, which is certainly a good number, but it does not solve much in the overall volume of needs. We also canceled our own housing program. The reservation is - you don't support young people. The program, and I dare say, was a rather poor setup for the support. The amount of money to purchase or repair the property was not entirely high, it was relatively low, interest was relatively high, there was no income limit. So they reached quite a well-placed household to support. And the inaccessibility of living for the young people that the program was supposed to be dealing with. Last year, 270 contracts for 713 million were the result, which certainly helped those people, but it has nothing to do with the conceptual solution. I think it is important to address this as a conceptual issue, not as an individual problem, and that is why we are also in the debate with the European Commission and, as we define available housing, young families and young people have included in those groups that are eligible for such affordable housing in the form of discounted rent compared to those prices that are based on maps that we are preparing in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. There are other important groups, seniors, there are jobs needed to get through the captivity of social housing, which, as I said, concern about 200,000 people in the Czech Republic, a much wider group of so-called accessible housing and some form of housing threat in the Czech Republic or the need to help in the housing market. At this point, about 1.4 million people are involved. With regard to financial support at the SFPI, we tried in the first pillar, in the first programme of available housing, which we divided 500 million for municipalities and 300 million for legal entities, churches, associations, but also a private investor who will meet the conditions that 25 percent of the apartments will provide funds to the municipality under some guaranteed conditions. It's a swallow, I'm saying again, let's not just stick to one of the programs that's gonna rip this thing out of a certified program. We are preparing the total amount of finance, now in the SFPI in this direction it is about 3 - 3.5 billion and we have succeeded - and I believe that, also on the basis of a debate with the European Commission - in the National Recovery Plan to allocate to financial instruments, this does not mean subsidies, but financial instruments, another 8 billion for municipalities. I, when I was talking to ČBA representatives, they are our partners from insurance companies, banks, in a number of other areas, whether digitalization or investment in construction, so if it goes well and succeeds - and I believe that yes, the total volume by 2025 could be around 21 billion, and that is a conservative estimate that municipalities could invest in the construction or renovation of affordable housing. And just one last thing, I was talking about the know-how. When we look at the success of, for example, using national titles or European subsidies - and I am not hiding it anywhere, these data are given historically by the Ministry of Regional Development - we actually see some local champions, just bigger cities, municipalities where it is necessary know-how, where there is a team of investments where there is a department, so of course they are more successful in applying for the subsidies, in preparing those projects. And I think that it is essential, and it is also part of the reform from the point of view of obtaining know-how, and it is supported by the European Commission, based on the 4.1 component, when we are to increase the so-called absorption capacity. Translated into speech understandable, the mayor knows he needs housing or that he needs to fix a kindergarten or build a retirement home, except he doesn't have the know-how to do it, how to suggest it, what to lean on, where to take legal certainty, how to calculate the project effectively. [[9.40 hours]] We are working with the European Investment Bank, which deals with projects rather larger, but also with the European Development Bank, and our goal is to really be able to help self-government with finding the same model of financing, with setting up cooperation with the bank or developer. The municipalities will be able to cooperate in the implementation of the National Recovery Plan with Housing Investment Advisory Hub, an expert panel for housing, for investments to which we want to invite - and this interest in our annual preparatory phase and cooperation is important - really experts on housing from both the private sector and the research sector, for example on the economic efficiency and energy efficiency of buildings, which is an important contribution to the thinking of building apartments, the Czech Technical University also entered into. We would really like - I was talking about the 330 apartments and 275 contracts - not to build tens of apartments with the help of the state, as it is now, but to allow municipalities to build and renovate hundreds and gradually thousands of apartments per year. Why is that important? It turned out - and if you look at other countries where the increase, such as real estate and rent prices, is significantly lower, when you compare Prague with Vienna, then the share of the housing fund or housing method, the higher the share of municipal rental housing, which unfortunately succumbed to all those privatisation steps from 1990 to 2000, I am glad that the privatisation stopped in most cities, so the renewal of these funds manages the purely commercial offer and allows municipalities to have an effective influence on the housing situation of people on their territory. Those are our targets. So what I'm saying is, the fund has a program set up, the other we're notifying, so we have the vehicle that can use the municipalities and cities. [[which:]] At the same time, we are dealing with the Ministry of Finance with other business models of private sector involvement, which multiplies the investments. And if I were to measure it only to the prepared money in the next two years, we're going about 21 billion, which could go in this direction, when half of it is the private segment investment in this thing. Perhaps I would like to thank the Union of Towns and Municipalities. We work closely with them on the possibilities and readiness of those municipalities in the implementation of the projects. At this point, the projects that are certain and ready to be implemented are roughly 20, 30 billion investments that can go in this direction. And the total absorption capacity, or the potential by 2025, is roughly 90 billion, which I think is quite an example of the interest in building available rental housing and strengthening municipal funds, and I believe that this government will have an answer to that and will support this necessary change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u19	Thank you. It is now registered with the priority right of Vice-President Dostálová. Mr Štolpa can still wait, because the Prime Minister is also registered, with priority rights. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u20	I thank you very much, Madam President, for the floor and I apologize very much to the Minister in advance, because I am aware that we are a little off topic, and therefore I would very much like to call on - and I did not, on purpose, make a factual remark, because only two minutes - Minister, we have promised ourselves, we have done one round table, we have said that we will repeat it and maybe it would be worth it to do the round table again, to have fun there, because there are a lot of things that you have been talking about, it is also possible to catch it in the legislation, but it is not there yet. I completely agree with you that the MMR is to give tools, whether legislative or financial, I also discussed it yesterday. I'd just like to pause over the way you guys are talking flamingly about the MMR housing expert team, so right after you started, you canceled the section, and now from 1. 7...and the union, so I don't really know where the experts are hanging from the MMR. Then I'd like to ask -- but let's keep it on the round table, please, because I'm really embarrassed to be here with the Finance Minister -- the notifications, you're talking about 8 billion, just so that there's some sort of panic that everyone is supposed to submit projects. The money's from the National Recovery Plan, it's not notified yet. It is important to remember that I was a little frightened by the opinion on the CzechInvest representative's budget committee, who said that the financial instruments in the National Recovery Plan could not be used, which is a big problem for the drawdown, whether through the bank or through the funds and so on, so the question is whether it will be fulfilled in real time, because we have to draw it all out there, close it all by the end of 2026. In addition to the 800 million housing programme, 500 for municipalities, 300 for entrepreneurs, nothing, neither community homes for seniors, nor nursing homes, have been declared elevators in buildings where they are not. I just have one more comment. I never said this government was responsible for living. I was just arguing that the government isn't doing enough to really find ourselves in a big housing crisis, and that it's more like throwing the stick under the bus. And I named it here, although, of course, the Minister then told me that the government is not entirely responsible for expensive mortgages, but that it is an instrument of the national bank, which I agree with, of course. On the other hand, it must also be said that the MMR has a subsidy program in the drawer to support interest, for example, on a mortgage if it gets above 5%. So any way to help young people would definitely be here. You're sanctioning mortgage repayment, you're shutting down building savings, the building bill, although it's adjusted, but it's not working, it's not gonna work until July next year. You simply make housing costs more expensive as such, abolishing in some way advantageous loans for young people, for cooperative housing and so on. And just one last comment on the housing bill. Minister, I had to smile because, in particular, the pirát were the ones who pressured the social housing. I'm so glad that you saw that really living isn't just about social, it's about affordable. We need to go into the available housing - and we also talked about it here yesterday and I am glad, I am really glad for what Minister Stanjura said here that the Ministry of Finance is trying to break through those pilot projects, and I will really be the first, if it succeeds, who will applaud this, if you take me into the team, I will be happy to participate in some way because this housing is really bothering me. And you know very well that we have put forward a social housing law, but we have put in a 5 per cent obligation for the municipalities, which was unacceptable, then we have quickly done the Construction programme so that we can somehow make the money. Then another law on available housing was passed, which was already here in the House after the first reading of the last parliamentary term. But we also had the principle of nonprofit companies. This is what the Czech Banking Association, Low-Profit Organisation, also discusses, involve the private sector. Let us, please, deal with this on the round table, let us get involved - coalitions, opposition - in the creation of this law as well, I think it will turn out well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u21	With a factual point, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u22	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Regional Development, I would just like to say that I simply see that you are absolutely out of control of the Ministry of Regional Development. I think it's also because you've never been in the position of any municipal policy, but you've just led the Public Administration Committee in the past term, where I've had the opportunity to be Vice-President, so I've seen the way you ran it. And I have to say that I really have to say with a smile that you have several political representatives, one of which is Mr. Sršeň, who is also in the Bureau of the Association of Local Authorities, and the Association of Local Authorities has made a fundamental point that grant titles and savings should be specified, which will therefore amount to 54 billion. I always smile about it very much, so I wonder - is that even possible? A person who sits at the Ministry of Regional Development as a political deputy and at the same time is in the leadership of the Association of Local Authorities, so how can he even give such an essential comment? And about the rental housing and what the former and very handsome Minister of Regional Development has already said to you here, so I want to say that I was very surprised by what you came up with about a week ago that the lease for one year twice and enough. This means that whoever rents the apartment will only be able to give the lease twice for the year and then it will give it for an indefinite period. But I think we have some civil code here, and even though you have a fixed-term contract today, the tenant can give you a statement under the Civil Code, even if you're there for a year. So I think your ideas are off the charts, and I think it's probably because you don't have the experience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u23	Mr Bartoš is now reporting with a factual remark. Please. [[Voice off the microphone.]] No? He's pulling her back in the end, okay. That is why we are going back to the debate where Prime Minister Petr Fiala is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u24	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a set of nearly six dozen different measures by which the government is fighting the unsustainable debt of the Czech Republic. And since the debate is almost twelve o'clock and it is spread between days, yesterday we had it framed by the opening speech of the Minister of Finance, so that in the details that we are discussing here - and that is good, even in those sometimes emotional performances, it does not lose the overall context, so I will mention the context and the overall dimension that our efforts have. This consolidation package - a recovery package, we have prepared to reduce the public deficit from 3.5 percent of GDP today to 2.4 percent in 2025 over a period of two years. This is important, and this is an important message, among other things, because if we manage to approve this package, we will start meeting at least one of the Maastricht criteria next year and we will have a deficit below 3% of GDP. If we manage to approve it as a whole, it will save us CZK 94 billion next year. I want to try again very briefly and clearly in a few minutes to say why we are doing this and where we want to direct the Czech Republic with this recovery package. I will not list individual measures here, point by point, they are generally known, the government has published them in time and there has been a public discussion and sometimes a very lively discussion takes place here over the selected items and we will certainly get to discuss the individual items in the next hours and during other readings. Instead of dealing with the individual details that will definitely be discussed here, I would like to mention five basic principles. Five basic principles followed by experts in the preparation of individual proposals, and those experts with whom we cooperated in the preparation of these measures and which we then tried to maintain in those political negotiations which led to the adoption of this recovery package by the government. At the very beginning, I would like to emphasise but one thing that is extremely important. The pace of state debt is currently one of the biggest problems of the Czech Republic. And the pace of state debt cannot be maintained in this dynamic. And I think everyone in this room, whether they admit it or not, well know where the origin of this problem is, where the origin of the rapid debt of the state is. It is a legacy of socialist thinking, a short-term solution to the problem and populist bribery of voters. But to the same extent, to the same extent, this is also the result of the constant delay in the necessary reforms, even though everyone who understands at least a little bit realized that without these reforms, it would go badly and realize what such irresponsibleness would bring. And these are all the starting points. These are all the bases our government has to deal with and our government has to work with. And we went to the elections, all sides of the government coalition went to the elections with the fact that they want to prepare the Czech Republic well for the future, that they want to stop this pace of debt and that they want to put the Czech Republic in shape. That is why we have committed ourselves to putting public finances in order, and that we will also launch the necessary systemic changes to both public administration and the economy as a whole, so that we are well prepared for the future, because this is a necessary condition, a necessary condition, in order to embark on the path to future prosperity. And we cannot avoid these unpleasant, painful, unpopular things on this journey. Without these measures, our future prosperity is at risk. My government is a government that is not afraid to keep promises that keep them and that can therefore say that irresponsible management is over. We are prepared to ensure that future generations of the Czech Republic do not have to live on debt. I am concerned that there will still be voices that want to sabotage everything that can be done with the catastrophic state of Czech finances. I often hear from the opposition, either directly or directly, by discussing what their proposals would mean, that there is really no need for savings. And even here, opposition Members often suggest the opposite. Other and other expenses, other and other claims that the state would have incurred for hundreds of billions of crowns. But ladies and gentlemen, all these expenses would have to be paid. And not just pay because it would be debt spending, so he would also have to pay it back, and pay it back with interest. And who would carry that burden? This burden would once again be borne by citizens, this burden would be borne by companies, but these are things that the opposition does not say. I feel when I listen to the debate that a large part of the opposition - I am not saying that all, to be fair, a large part of the opposition refuses to admit what serious problems are going on here. So let me get this straight. Speaking of consolidating our management, we don't have any trivial changes in accounting or solving any technical details. Speaking of recovering public finances, we don't send the state budget to the spa, only the finance minister who deserves it could do it, but of course he won't go to any spa because he's fully engaged in the work and consolidation of public finances, but we can't just send the public budget to the spa to get some rest. What our country must approach is a series of serious, literally lifesaving operations. It is a fundamental assumption so that the state can re-manage normally so that it can provide people with everything they are used to. And to have the funds, too, to have the money for the necessary reforms and strategic investments. Therefore, our efforts to modernise the functioning of the state cannot end up with this package that we are discussing here today. But this is a necessary assumption, this is a necessary assumption so that we can take further strategic steps. And now for the five principles that I have promised, the five principles that govern our measures. One. We do not only understand measures in the recovery package as a quick rescue, but also as an opportunity for long-term positive changes. Reduction of expenditure means the possibility of reducing shortcomings, simplifying rules - it is important to simplify the rules and thus create a more balanced, predictable and overall fair state. And a good example of how our recovery package works and that it also performs this function is the simplification of our tax system, i.e. the abolition of the third VAT rate, and - and that is not at all irrelevant - the elimination of 22 tax exemptions. In addition to the positive impact on the budget, we will therefore save long-term also this. We will save time, reduce bureaucracy, and achieve more efficient tax collection. [[10.00 hours]] Second, the second principle. It's a set of carefully balanced measures that are logically not popular - I'm not saying that they're popular here, and we're well aware of that, and we went with it - but they're measures that don't threaten anyone. This, among other things, is their balance, and that is the condition that our government has been dealing with from the start and I am very satisfied that we are able to do so. Although these measures are serious, they bring, among other things, what we must do, and this is an increase in the taxes collected. We have carefully focused on being socially sensitive, having as little impact as possible on employees, so that it has as little impact as possible on vulnerable groups of citizens. We compensate for the tax increases that we had to approach by reducing VAT to necessary goods such as food, such as medical aids and the overall tax burden will not exceed that which was here in 2021. This is also important and I believe that there is no professional, social or otherwise defined group that would really endanger our measures. That was the second principle. Third principle. We're starting with each other. We start with each other because we believe that this is the right thing to do, and because we believe that the state must set an example. If we want others to get used to the investigation, we can only start by reducing our own spending. All the more so, we are aware that the money we use is the money we receive from taxes on citizens and companies. That is why it is important that we treat them as economically as possible. We will therefore achieve a large part of the planned savings through better management of public money, such as expenditure on salaries or the operation of the Office. This will only mean a reduction in expenditure by up to CZK 20 billion a year in this one matter. So we set an example and start with each other. That's the third principle. Fourth principle. Our intention to abolish non-investment subsidies and to cleanse our state or reduce the influence of the subsidy business is also linked to efforts to make the state more efficient and easier to operate. Our country is in a situation - and we have to admit that, and I think that everyone who looks at it with open eyes sees it again, with an open mind - that a number of subsidies simply no longer serve their purpose. What is the purpose of subsidies? The purpose of the subsidies is or was originally a comparison of disadvantages and differences, strengthening equality of chances, greater justice, ensuring some quality that cannot otherwise be ensured. But that's not what many subsidies do anymore. We all know that. They have become a business that feeds on the whole industry and deforms the market. We got into an unfortunate situation that some companies live on subsidies instead of bringing their own value, they got used to it. Unfortunately, part of the state's apparatus got used to it. The subsidy business has existed here for many years without anyone asking what the subsidies are still for, whether they harm someone else who doesn't have such access to them and whether they can and should afford it. We have the courage to intervene. It shouldn't be anything surprising. The way our subsidies worked is not only politically criticized in the long run, it is also criticized by the Supreme Audit Office and so on. But mostly it bothers every entrepreneur who tries to push through and is disadvantaged against competition, which uses or even exploits subsidies. I believe our government is convinced that it is time to substantially change this system, so that it is fairer to be fairer, to be more correct, but to substantially change it, too, because we will save tens of billions of crowns, which, in turn, the citizens pay for this distorted type of business. The last, fifth principle we've followed and we're gonna follow is that this package isn't some lonely move and that the package isn't over. There has been agreement within our coalition from the beginning that we cannot be satisfied with one-off steps. We constantly wonder what state we want, what state we want to look like, how to ensure that at the end of our term, it works better than it did before. After all, the measures under discussion follow up on what we have already done. They follow up on bailouts on the budget's spending side, which we presented immediately after the appointment of our government and which compensated for, for example, so much discussed tax reductions due to the abolition of the supergross wage. Then we saved 80 billion crowns with the cuts on the expense side right after we arrived. But I would also like to remind you that when I talk about the long-term measures and that the principle of this package is that this is not an isolated step, that the consolidation recovery package measures are directly linked to the comprehensive pension reform, which is another neglected thing that has burdened us in our country for a long time. I will not now pursue the pension reform or the detention that these two measures have. We have already discussed pension reform here at one of the recent meetings, and we will undoubtedly devote ourselves to it thoroughly again in the near future. I mean, we think about our reforms, the changes, as a whole, and we have a clear idea of where these are going and what they are supposed to lead us to. They are supposed to lead us to bring the Czech Republic back to countries that invest in their future and which have long-term strategic priorities that are also able to meet. We are doing all these steps so that we can move further than today and we have to do them so that we can move forward. This is related to another matter which is very important. The world is changing, changing very quickly - I think we all see it - and the Czech Republic is coming to a stage where it also has to choose its new role. Our government is convinced that we have what it takes to be one of the best to get among the best. It won't be easy and it won't do without one thing. This recovery package, consolidation of public finances, is a prerequisite, but it is not enough. That's why I'm saying that the recovery package is, in a way, just the beginning. What we have to do is invest extensively, in transport infrastructure, in energy, in an innovative economy, in a modern education system. In all these areas, if we don't make the necessary changes and the necessary steps, we're about to run out of breath. We're running low somewhere, we just don't want to admit it. None of these changes can be made, we will not achieve it if we fail to put public finances in order. That's just the basic assumption, and that's the connection of all these things together. Just on motorways, railroads, power plants, technology development, good schools, there would be no money and the Czech Republic, if it continued to do what was here so far, it would quickly fall behind and start to discourage investors and that is not possible. It is precisely the years ahead that, given the changes that are taking place around us, are absolutely crucial. You know I'm not in the habit of exaggerating and using any strong words, some expressive twists. But I'm going to make it perfectly clear here that the next few years will decide our future. If we want to be successful, we must respond much better and much faster to what is happening around us and we must invest enough in strategically important areas. That's our point. After many years, we are the first government to think responsibly about how they will change the rules, the rules that many have become accustomed to, but which simply does not bring us good results today. [[10.10 hours]] The first government that is responsible for preparing itself for the world for the next decades, which thinks beyond the horizon of its term of office. For example, we have set up a Strategic Investment Committee to speed up and coordinate the necessary reforms and give us feedback on whether they are effective enough. I am very much looking forward to the first meeting of this committee we have next week. Our government has the courage to face complex challenges and look far enough into the future. And the resolution of our public debt is a condition for us to see that future in health so that we can see that future in prosperity. The consolidation of public finances therefore remains an essential task for the state to solve. And anyone who doesn't lie in their pocket sees it and understands it. The measures we are preparing or putting forward bring some unpleasant but necessary compromises that result from the situation we are in today. And I want to assure everyone that we, the government coalitions, are behind them, that we have prepared them so as not to harm anyone and that we have prepared them to be balanced, sensible and to help our economy. We see the solution to the problem of our debt, which in our view was largely prevented in the past, as one of our main objectives today, precisely for the reasons and in the broader context that I have mentioned here. As in the case of pension reform, our government here, with humility and determination, has accepted a task that has long to be completed. And that's exactly what we're gonna do. That's why we're here, and that's why we're having a long meeting here, and that's why we're going to push through and approve a recovery package so that my kids and your kids don't have to live on debt. And to live in a state that doesn't lose track of the rest of the developed world. I thank all those who support us in this effort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u25	With factual remarks, Mr Brázdil, Vice-President Havlíček and others are now registered. Mr Brázdil will now appear. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u26	Thank you in two minutes. Prime Minister, Mr. Fiala, you spoke well. You speak well. I can't say you can say it beautifully. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] But I don't know if you've realized, but you're spreading fear! You actually told people this, we're doing it for you, but you're carrying it all. They don't even want it, that kind of thing. I mean, 60 percent of the people in this state don't trust you, you have 31 percent popularity! And now I ask you, why are you spreading fear? You've said before that we're at war! Well, we're not at war. Your finance minister said we don't have catastrophic finances. You say first, we have a catastrophic state of public finances! Who's texting you? I mean, these people, they don't want it! Were you among the people? You're spreading fear! Fear and we're supposed to fuck ourselves up? Yes, we're all afraid of things like health, we don't want our families to be in any bad shape to die soon. These are human qualities, but you support it by saying it, and you carry it with you people, and it doesn't stop yet! You even said, it won't be the end, I'll spread the fear, we'll deepen it even further. This is beautiful! We're trying to help people here in some way, and you're going to spread that fear and continue beyond the borders at all; Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u27	You were supposed to use polite terms, Mr. Ambassador. One of them wasn't very polite. [[Member of the Roaring Room: What did I say wrong?]] Vice-President Havlíček, with a factual remark. The following is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u28	Hello. Thank you for the Prime Minister's speech, but it seems to me that yesterday either he wasn't here, which I would understand, or he wasn't looking at the monitor, or he didn't have a report of what was here, because I didn't agree with much of what the Minister of Finance Stanjura said. But I agreed with him on one thing. He said absolutely right, both extremes are bad, the Greek way, and the other, some peace, nothing happens. That's the worst thing we can do and act like it. And you, Prime Minister, have actually said one of the first things about the catastrophic state of Czech finances. You moved us to Greece, which is incredibly wrong. It's not catastrophic. I stand by it. He's not even good, which is true. And this needs to be done very wisely. This means saving money, we agree, let us talk about where we need to save money and talk about other measures so that we do not endanger investment, so that we do not endanger research, development, innovation, which you clearly indicated by the last steps will be. And we made it clear here yesterday that the road is not a tax increase, which we repeated, Prime Minister, exactly what you said in October 2022. There will be no tax increases. Period. We showed you didn't do it. We questioned that you are not the right example of increasing the number of officials, not in the overall context, but in the sense of ministers, in the sense of political representatives and so on. We have questioned that you are replacing savings to a large extent by taking credit. Well, at the same time, we wanted you to explain a whole series of things. You called it a grant business. Yes, so let's show the grant business, all right, we're just saying that the grant business is going mainly to European resources, and that you're going to have to go into a business that isn't a grant business, or it's not a business. They're road resources, highways, schools and so on, and there's gonna have to be saved, I guess that's true. But please, let's not call it a grant business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, followed by Mr Rozvoral with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President and, above all, Prime Minister, I would like to respond to you. I also thank you for your performance, but I really have to pause over it when you say you're starting at your place. You mean you passed a new law of service and brought countless political deputies to the ministry? I did the work yesterday, and I really did an analysis of the past and current government. Do you know how many of those political deputies are there? Forty! Because those deputy directors have transformed themselves into CEOs, which means they've all stayed and 40 political deputys have been added. One political deputy costs us three million crowns a year from the budget. You know, I would understand if you were saying yes, and you were telling the truth, but you're not telling her because you're not starting with yourself. Look at foreign travels - they're still so big! I could go on with a lot of other things. If I'm saying I want to save money, I have to start with me. It kind of reminds me of the Karlovy Vary Region, because when I was in the position of the governor for three years, I checked every invoice, order, new leadership came in, cancelled everything because they had 12 political entities, created many political news outlets. You know very well that you've also run as two political subjects, I keep saying it here. Why do you have five political clubs, why are we paying five club presidents and so on? When I say something, I have to start with me, but you really don't start with each other, if you started with me, I would really lower my head and say, yes, you're right. But you're going in the exact opposite direction, you just want people to pay for it, but it doesn't really apply to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u31	Now the Member Rozvoral made a point of fact. Mr. Kukla is following.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I also have to respond to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, through the President, we, as the opposition, want to put public finances in order as the SPD, but we say out loud that this should be done differently and that the government should start mainly with itself and to a greater extent shortening the state's spending and abolishing three unnecessary ministerial posts. Further end the solar business, abolish the exception to taxing dividends abroad, abolish inclusion in education, abolish the abuse of social benefits inadaptable, who can work but work with shields. To introduce a digital tax for multinational corporations such as Facebook and YouTube and others that are not taxing a crown here. We believe that the government's package goes against decent and working people, the elderly and the disabled, who will make their lives more expensive. And the SPD is fundamentally rejecting that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u33	Let me just remind you that you can address ministers directly. Mr Kukla, followed by Mr Nacher - with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u34	Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, Prime Minister, I have intersected you here several times in the past and listened carefully to your speech. If it were all true what you said, it would be amazing. But you were in the electoral campaign that you won, promising not to raise taxes. You promised during the assembly of the government even a few months ago. I am very glad that you finally admitted today that taxes will increase. You said you started on your own. But, as my colleague has already mentioned, you have increased the number of ministers, increased the number of political representatives, you have not frozen Members' salaries. And when we look at the consolidation package, I did not find any cuts to Members' salaries. When you look, you said you were lowering VAT and reducing the number of rates to two. Well, the books are at a zero rate, so no matter how much I count, there are still three rates. You didn't say it would cost the water, that it would cost the flow, that drugs, public transport, accommodation, tickets for cultural events would get more expensive by 2%. You didn't say you raised the excise duty on diesel, which was supposed to be fifty crowns lower by the end of the year. You didn't say you were increasing the road signs. You didn't say you promised to valorize seniors in campaign and vows, and you humiliated them today. All you probably promised and did was cancel the EET, which is probably the result of the tax increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u35	Mr Nacher, followed by Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister, I listened carefully to what you said, and I feel like you weren't here yesterday when we were talking, or when I was talking here, because otherwise you wouldn't have such a speech. I don't have time to explain everything in these two minutes, I don't have a priority right, so I'll take it real quick. You were talking about the horizon of several parliamentary periods, but at the same time it was you when you were in opposition when you were at the opportunity to decide something that was going on in one parliamentary term, that there had to be a general agreement between the coalition and the opposition. Now you've admitted to the mic that you're going to make measures that go over the horizon of this term, but you're not trying to make a deal with the opposition at all. And now I don't run into the package, but I'm referring, for example, to so-called pension reform. So where is it? That's one thing. Two. You said, we know what we want, and we know exactly what we're planning. Well, that's not true, because you were a few months ago, and you personally said you wouldn't raise taxes. Now I'm not comparing you to what you said before the election. I don't do that much, just like you did, because I perceive the change situation as a result of the war in Ukraine. That's what you never crossed your shadow and criticized the previous government at the time of the covid at all costs. I don't do that. No, I'm comparing your performance to what you said in December on Nova or in January on some interviews. We're not raising any taxes. Repeatedly. And my question is, what has changed since then to today? What changed between January this year and July? Last one. I wrote to myself, for example, at the time of the covid. No. I introduced you here yesterday to your opposition proposals, where compensation should have been higher, longer, for more people. Don't you want me to read it again? So I copied it for you here, these are all your amendments that come from the five-calice. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u37	Now, then, Minister Stanjura, with a point of fact, follows Mrs Oulehlová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u38	I don't like someone from Czech to English. I said yesterday, yes, there are two extreme opinions, a Greek script and do nothing. Mr. Andrej Babiš said, doing nothing, that is an extreme opinion, he said it about eight times yesterday in his performance. Then I asked two rhetorical questions and immediately answered them. And that's the answer to the misinterpretation that Vice-President Havlíček was talking about. I asked: Do we need consolidation of public finances? Yes! And so did many of the opposition. Secondly, I asked the question: Do we have public finances in good condition? No, we don't! That is why we need to consolidate public finances. These projects, which have several parliamentary periods, will mainly be in the area of investment. The Prime Minister spoke of it. There must be two parties to the agreement, Mr Nacher, through Madam President. We're not going to introduce a draft pension reform, it's going to come here, and you're against it. You're against everything. So that's really not how you negotiate. For the Member, I do not know which one it was, part 17 is about the salary of constitutional officials, part 17 of the law. So don't tell me you didn't find it there. If you didn't find it, you didn't look for it. A tax quota and a total tax burden - that is simply true. So let's wait for 2025, what's the tax quota going to be when we end up in the government and when we start. I guarantee you it won't be higher. We've been cutting taxes. For critics like the union. $30 billion for this year. And for next year, we're giving back the $30 billion. So it'll still be the same in 2024. Let's wait for the data and not say forward. It's like we're talking about the overall tax burden, and I've explained many times that there's some measures that can change in the tax mix that I'm going to lower some tax, and I'm going to raise some tax. I asked you yesterday: Are you in favour of increasing excise duties on tobacco, alcohol, gambling? Yes! So what are you criticizing us for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u39	Mrs Oulehlová will now appear, followed by Mr Lang. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Mr Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you just said in your speech, we're constantly wondering what state we want, what state we want to look like. Prime Minister, you scared me with this signal. Because if you're prime minister for a year and a half and you're still wondering what state you want, what state you want to look like, you really scared me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u41	Mr Lang with a point of fact, followed by Mr Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u42	Thank you, Madam President. So am I with the Prime Minister. I'm just not surprised. Yesterday I listened to a debate that had a ratio. You asked us to perform rationally. And I'm like, "It's useless, it's useless, it's useless." The Prime Minister has sent several signals here. I called on him myself several times to just listen to some signals. Prime Minister, are you watching a little social media? Are you looking at where you're going, where your side is going, which is actually in that five blind man? You're talking about going through some kind of horizon. If you continue like this - I don't care, of course, because I'm an opposition MP - but the odees just go down in a crazy way. You're sending some kind of signal here, you believe it yourself, you're connected to the Minister of Finance with the umbilical cord. You know what political scientists say? That in any other government, the Minister of Finance hasn't been in that government in six months. You're not listening? And these aren't some political scientists who seem to be connected to us, to the opposition. Turn on the politicians sometimes. You said the Minister of Finance deserved a spa. I say yes, too. Have the minister go to the spa, stay in the spa, and don't go back to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u43	Mr Feranec with a point of fact, followed by Vice-President Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what the Prime Minister said. Dear Prime Minister, through Madam President, you were talking about the grant business, actually. And that's a very fashionable mantra now. They're all fighting the grant business. And you're talking about how the companies got used to it, how the industry got used to the grant business. [[10.30 hours]] I, frankly, don't know the industry that would get used to the grant business, except for one, and that's the area of consulting firms. Today, hundreds, thousands of companies live on it. And who does he advise? Municipalities, cities, schools, colleges, public administration. And why is that? Because the rules in Europe are incredibly complicated. I would understand if you want to fight it and you have it in your hands, so you can try to change the rules, so it doesn't really have the subsidy disappearing from those consulting firms. I understand that this is difficult within the European Union. But it was the Presidency, they could have picked it up a little bit, this topic. So once again, you have the key to solving this, and it's about simplifying the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u45	Vice-President Havlíček with a point of fact, followed by Mrs Lesenská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u46	Thank you. We, Minister of Finance, did not claim to disagree at all in the sense of some of these excise duties, etc. We merely confronted you with this, which is a normal matter of the opposition, that you said, in the autumn of last year it was said correctly by colleague Nacher, we do not give it to that year 21 that these, these, these taxes will not rise. Period. Well, they all of them you named, so they got up, some more, some less. Otherwise, as regards the so-called a catastrophic condition. I thought I was more of a help last night. I agree with you. Not Greek, not nothing, that's true. Both are wrong. But tell us now, Minister of Finance, if you agree with what the Prime Minister said here that the state of Czech finances is disastrous. Maybe I'm translating it wrong, maybe I'm a stupid person, but when someone says disastrous, I put it in context with the Greek way. So just say it's catastrophic, or isn't it catastrophic? We can move away from this and go further, so that we know what we're up to, because it's precisely that we're scaring the catastrophic state, and then we're raising taxes and taking some drastic measures, that's what I call spilling a baby with a bathtub, and we're not doing it with reason, and then we're killing, like, investments, innovations, etc. which I believe is wrong. It's a regular discussion. Tell us whether or not you agree that the state of Czech finances is catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, Prime Minister, have a good morning. We took turns managing the meeting and we will continue with the factual remarks. First of all, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, Patrik Nacher, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and others will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u48	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, Prime Minister, I would like to clarify one moment, whether or not we have already been discussing pension reform here in the House. Because both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have stated that the amendment to the Pension Insurance Act is only parametric changes, that pension reform will not be introduced until autumn and that perhaps, perhaps, it will be discussed with the opposition. The debate that is now under way over this reform, I will not comment because it is not the subject of today's meeting, but you were discussing something about the government, and you were convinced that the House was already discussing it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u49	Thank you. Before I give another word, I shall first announce that Mr Zborovský has cancelled his note since 10:30. Then I'll read more apologies. From 15.00 to 17.00 for personal reasons, Mr Robert králíček apologizes, and from 10.00 for health reasons, Mr Jan Volný apologizes. Madam Secretary Helena Langšádlová takes back her apology from 11.15 to 12.45. Then we will continue with the factual remarks. Mr Patrik Nacher will be next, Mr Stanislav Fridrich will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. Well, I'll respond to the Minister. Minister, we're not listening, so try reading lips, I'll say it again. Coalitions should negotiate with the opposition on things that go beyond this period. The Prime Minister called it the word horizon of this period. And I'm going to say three specific examples here that you didn't do it at all. The first was the Pension Insurance Act, which we discussed on Tuesday. Definitely beyond this parliamentary term. You've dealt with the opposition. No, no, no. The second is the third pillar, that's what's here, that's the 474. The third is what you're planning for the future. I hope that's where you'll act. And the fourth is part of this package, these changes are already building savings, which is a product that's been here for 30 years, which has enormous inertia, has gone a long way beyond you, far beyond a few electoral periods. Did you discuss it? I personally came to you to discuss this product, how to modernize it and how to move it somewhere, I came to you. Nothing. You're just pushing it hard. This means that you can't be surprised that some of these things can also happen after the next election. Then I will remind the Prime Minister of his word that this government's decision-making is going beyond the horizon of this parliamentary term, but without agreement with the opposition, at least the agreement, I said that strongly, without discussion with the opposition. You just put it here, you overrule 108, and you're not interested in the arguments at all. Then I'm gonna take the floor one more time, and I'm gonna explain the construction savings to you guys so you can see how out of line it is, what you're suggesting here. Are you gonna change that? Well, you won't, because you have the 108, and that concerns, unfortunately, all of these proposals that you have here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u51	And thank you. Next will be Mr Stanislav Fridrich, then Ladislav Okleštěk, Jiří Mašek and others. It's all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u52	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. Prime Minister, I would like to comment on your comment on the subsidies. I have basically lived my entire professional life in the business sector, and as such I am definitely against all subsidies and I am because they completely distort the whole market. But unfortunately, we live in the European Union, and if we care about abolishing subsidies in the Czech Republic, our companies become uncompetitive. And I'm going to say that because I don't like these general discussions, on a particular case. In the case of planting since 2012, 60 per cent of fruit orchards, apple orchards, have been abolished. We have become uncompetitive and we are unable to supply the Czech market, we are currently producing 80 percent of consumption. If these subsidies are reduced only at the Czech level, it is damage to our companies. So I would very much advocate that the fight to abolish subsidies should take place at a European level, but not just our companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u53	Thank you. As another Member of Parliament Ladislav Okleštěk, Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared, then Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have a huge gift. When you talk, you pick up a wave of actual notes, that's strong. But no one realizes that you're actually under the cover of the truth, and you're preaching a lot of untruth here. And when I mentioned the drape, it could basically be a wolf in a sheep's clothing. I'd like to sign under what my colleague Vildumetzová says. I mean, she made it clear to you on the numbers, on the arguments. Wake up, it's a disaster. And that's just what my colleague Vildumetzová said about the apparatchik here, the ministries and so on. But I did interpel, my colleague Stanjura and I were talking about raising VAT on firewood. For those people who live in the country, for whom it means so much, it's just one of their few ways to get through the winter. And you're gonna throw it all the way up the stairs, and you don't even care what the impact is. Oh, I'm so sorry. Not only are you not telling the truth, but you're making life even more expensive for those who have it hard enough without you. So I'd like you to think about it, and before you come to the counter and start teasing us all around, please untie it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u55	Thank you. As Mr Jiří Mašek, Mrs Ivana Mádlová, Roman Kubíček and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u56	Mr President, fellow Members, Prime Minister, I must respond to you because you have basically thrown away the headline of your program here, crushed and thrown away. We're not raising taxes. Period. [[10.40 hours]] We all know the last time we listened to it, and it means that the government really doesn't have any other solutions, that you had to step on your program, disappoint your constituents, and especially all or most of those savings to collect on tax payers, ordinary citizens and businesses. I'd just like to remind you that what you're doing jumping right now will, of course, produce negative fruit, and it will be in the fact that you're tying up innovation, you're tying up our companies, you're tying up development. We don't have much left in the future. We all know what the demographic situation is, and we know that without running our economy to become competitive, to be able to finalize its products and sell them on the world market, so that we really can't do without it. Everything else is talking here. And if the government doesn't do something about it and sleeps, it's gonna be a big problem. And I would just like to remind you that we, as the YES movement and our government, had prepared a consolidation package of public finances that was reasonable. This was a plan of about 0.5 percentage points per year. At the current level, I suspect, it would be about 40 billion, and it would not bind the very development of the economy. And we're going down a really bad road here. Minister, and Prime Minister, this is a really bad road, and if you don't make any changes in the package, we will feel it, our citizens, our companies will feel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u57	Thank you. Now Mrs Ivana Mádlová, then Mr Roman Kubíček, Mr Josef Bernard and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u58	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I don't know, Prime Minister, if you haven't noticed, but you're not at the ODS Congress where you promise a better tomorrow in an ideal world. We are dealing with really big problems here concerning the budget, the finance of the Czech Republic. I'm glad you're having a good time, so did you during your valorization. I'm really happy that you guys come here all excited and you're laughing at everything. However, you often talk about the competence of the government. That's very important to you. As far as competence in finance is concerned, your coalition partners also have a pretty good assessment of you: "We stop believing that they know what's going on. STAN. He shot some housenumer. And now we're going to discuss it. TOP 09. This is surprising if the Ministry of Finance has changed its mind only a month after the conclusion of the agreement and presents a public draft budget which is not discussed and agreed. The agreement does not reflect or even goes against them in a number of ways. Pirates. It's a desperate sight to see where it's going. It was clear before the end of the year. But we've still heard that nothing's going on, and there's not much to prepare. STAN." So that's your certificate of competence in the Treasury Department. I don't know if it's still funny. [[From the government bench off the microphone: It is.]] It is. Okay. You're also talking about wanting a slim state. So here again, I'm going to remind my colleagues of the comments: When are you going to cancel the three ministries that you've introduced, when you're going to cancel them, if you don't cancel them, so why don't you cancel them and when you're going to reduce significantly the number of political representatives? And if you don't lower them, why? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u59	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček, Josef Bernard, the Prime Minister and others will be the next to speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'd like to start by thanking the citizens today for sticking with us. And today it's 13. 7, it's tax freedom day. I congratulate everyone that until now they have paid taxes to the state and will be earning their own money from tomorrow. I'm more looking at the idea of calling it consolidation of public budgets. It's just a tax package, so that's what we're not going to talk about, and if it leads to consolidation, they can only show numbers and results and clear data. I think that will not be the case, and it will show whether Mr Laffer was right within the Lafferův curve, because we are increasing the tax burden and moving entrepreneurs, citizens into the grey zone. Are you convinced that tax settings will not trigger this effect? And do you believe that by repeating today, by repeating the Greek crisis scenario today, you are not causing fear in the citizens and will not prevent them from spending? Because only the consumption, only the need to have those things, keeps the economy above water. If you say it's awful, awful and awful, everyone's gonna put it in their pillow and not give you a crown, and then you can't achieve the goals you want to meet. I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u61	Thank you. Mr. Josef Bernard will be next, the Prime Minister will be ready, then Mrs. Mr. Mračková Vildumetzová and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we use unnecessary words and labels. But I think the speech said something about the situation in our country. Indeed, the state of public finances is not sustainable in the long run, it is indeed critical. That's what you're saying, except maybe we're different in ways to fix public finances. In four years, we will generate the same debt as in the previous 27 years. The trajectory of state debt is extremely dangerous. Nobody here said we were going down the Greek road, just pointing out that if we didn't hit the brakes, if we didn't do something important, we could get into a situation where we could get to Greece in, like, ten, fifteen years. And today we're raising taxes so that we don't have to raise them catastrophically in the future. We still have time to make the measures we're doing today so that it doesn't fall on one group of citizens catastrophically. And that is what I think these measures bring. On the contrary, I did not feel fear of the speech, I felt the hope that we had a government that was trying to do something for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u63	Thank you. Now, the Prime Minister's point of order. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Peštová Berenika and others will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u64	Thank you. So I'm glad that the speech brings attention and that there are a lot of different comments that I'm going to try to respond to - some of them. I will not respond to the concern for the Civil Democratic Party and its future. That sounds smiling to me. But you're doing it repeatedly. I know some of you have been in the past with the ODS, but that's over, we don't want you anymore. So please don't worry about us. At the same time I won't comment on such remarks, you've also gotten used to the way anyone looks, if anyone smiles, if they frown, if they nod their head. I'm just pointing out that it's rude. We can stand it, it won't upset us, but you're putting yourself down for nothing. Now, about the stuff. Well, if anyone thinks it's not a catastrophic situation when we're constantly living on debt, if, for example, under the ODS government, excuse me, 20 percent of the ANO movement... [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] Well, you don't know what I was gonna say, so what are you laughing at? That seems more like a hysterical reaction than some sensible one. So, under YES, we had 20 percent of the expenditure on debt. We reduced it to 13 percent in the ODS and our coalition partners. But we still consider it catastrophic and unsustainable. You didn't, because you didn't do anything about it. I respect that, but we don't want to accept it. Retirement reform, yes. Vice Prime Minister of our government Marian Jurečka led negotiations with the opposition. Did he get any suggestions? Has there been any constructive cooperation? I didn't. Valorisation is part of a broader sense of pension reform, and we will still be discussing the pension reform itself here. The VAT goes down, you can look at the numbers. It's obvious. I congratulate Mrs Oulehlová, if she thinks there is no need to think about the future of this state in a year and a half, that everything is clear ahead. Well, it's not. Let's look at the energy development, see what happened to artificial intelligence in a year and a half. A responsible person and a politician must respond to this. And one final remark, officers. We've reduced the number of officials to the state that was here before Babišův's government. We've reduced the number of places by 800 to 1,000, and these are clear numbers... that can be traced, so we're saving on ourselves and we're also showing the citizens... that we're the ones who save on each other first. [[Time.]] [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u65	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mrs Berenika Peštová, will now perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u67	Wait, Madame, the President always reads who is next in order to prepare himself, then the word is given. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u68	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I'm afraid you're not telling the truth. On 1 January you had 75 559 officials and 1 July, and it is sad that, with the approval of the consolidation package, you also approved an increase in the number of officials to 75 887. [[10.50 hours]] That means you've raised 328 since January 1st. But I would like to respond to the Minister of Finance. He's here saying - do we need to consolidate public finances? Yes, we do. And what are you criticizing us for?- Well, for not starting with you. Why did you bring 40 political deputy ministers on January 1st? Why do you have 3 non-portfeiture ministers, respectively, for European affairs, for legislation, for science and research, they also have political representatives. Is that even normal? Why do you have countless advisors, government agents! Why do you have five club presidents here? Why do you have five vice premieres? Why the Supervisory Board of the Czech Post has 12 members and so on. I understand that public finances must be consolidated, but I, Minister, criticise it, and, of course, Mr Benda here may laugh at the fact that one political deputy is CZK 3 million a year. And that it's actually very little in the budget. But, please, small money makes big money. And if I want something from someone, I really need to start with me. When I was captain of the Karlovy Vary Region and wanted people to save money, I had to save money too. When I wanted people to be on time for work, I also had to be on time for work. And when I wanted them to wear official clothes, I also had to wear official clothes. The principle is very simple, but unfortunately you're going the opposite way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u69	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Patrik Nacher, Jana Hanzlíková, and then the next. Everything is factual. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u70	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be... I'm not even gonna run out of those two minutes. So I was very tired when I heard the Prime Minister say he was looking beyond the horizon with savings. So I just wanted to ask if, Prime Minister, you know what a horizon is. The horizon is a thought line, as you approach it, so she's moving away from you. So I got really, really worked up when you said you couldn't see the savings beyond that horizon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u71	Thank you. He will now speak with the factual remark of Patrik Nacher, Mrs Hanzlíková, Karel Havlíček and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u72	Vice-President, I hope you'll be as generous with me as you let the Prime Minister speak half a minute longer to make it fair not to be the double standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u73	I was trying to warn the Prime Minister to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u74	The zero has been there for half a minute, I've been tracking it. But I want to ask you, because I asked you yesterday in your half-hour speech, you can name it, Prime Minister, now that you're here, so I'm going to take advantage of what these measures are pro-growth, from that big package where you're changing 63 laws, what's anti-inflationary, because so far it seems to me that pro-growth is nothing, I told you here yesterday that there's already 12 months of retail sales going down, and now you're going to tighten up, so they're going to keep going down, so I don't know if there's a pro-growth measure, so consumption is definitely not going to pull it. It's not anti-inflationary either, because by increasing taxes that translate into higher prices of goods, you're going to start inflation again. So if you can answer me what is pro-growth and anti-inflationary. Those are very clear questions. And as far as consistency is concerned, it's a good thing I'm saving everything and I have an archive. This isn't just about taxes. This is about the valorization, too, about the pensions. You had an interview at Lightning 11. 11. 2022, which is last November. Not before the war in Ukraine, not before the election. Is there any threat to pension valorisation in the context of the planned investigation? There's been talk of an investigation. And you answered - no, the mechanism is set up by law to valorize pensions. Are you considering increasing the age of retirement? - I'm sure that's not going to happen during our term. The retirement period at the age of 65 is going to apply. - In other words, you said a lot about taxes and pensions in November, December, January, and those things don't apply anymore. So I'm asking about the consistent attitude of the government... and you, Prime Minister. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] And how can we believe that what you're saying now - I'll finish that sentence, how can we believe that what you're saying now will be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u75	Ambassador, I'm gonna give you one more heads-up, and I'm gonna turn off your mic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u76	[[During the President's speech:]] ...to pay in six months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u77	Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will be next, then Mr Karel Havlíček, Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u78	Thank you for your word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the words of my fellow Member, Mrs Mádlová, who has spoken very well here about the competence of the government in the area of finance. I would like to comment on the area of social, and I would like to remind you that the basic objective of social policy of each state is to have a social network available for individuals who get into unsolvable social situations. But we still need to take steps so that a group of people who depend entirely on social benefits do not grow. I ask why the government is taking steps completely opposite, whether it was a reduction in valorisation, whether it was changes in pensions or some changes in consolidation, i.e. rather a tax package. I'm asking if you have relevant social impact analyses, and you know how negatively this will affect vulnerable groups of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u79	Thank you. Vice-President Karel Havlíček will now appear, then Mr Roman Kubíček and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u80	Thank you. Well, thank you for your confirmation, Prime Minister, so you finally agreed to a catastrophic state, and I'm translating it as a Greek state, and I'm just putting it in contrast to what the Minister of Finance said yesterday that he doesn't want a Greek state or anything. I'll just remind you of one thing, if it's a catastrophic condition. At the end of 2021, when we handed over the government, we were on the average of inflation within the European Union. You have reached, on average, double the European Union's inflation in a year and a half. Gross domestic product - only the Czech Republic and only Spain did not get to the forehead level. The decline in real wages under your government - the largest of all OECD countries. The budget, if I do not take record deficits that are in the course of the budget, so when I take correct, not our first government, but our second government, let it be comparable, we have increased the deficit by CZK 800 billion over the last two years in particular, you have increased your deficit by CZK 600 billion in a year and a half of your government, or debt by CZK 600 billion. Nominally translated - you're in debt twice as fast. The debt pace of 2020 and 2021 - that is, for our governments still at the time of covido, of course - below the average, or below the euro zone, you in 2022 on the exact average of the euro zone. So I'm saying it's not a catastrophic state, you're saying it's a catastrophic state, okay, maybe it's just some terminology, but then I'm saying that if it's a catastrophic state, it's because of your management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u81	Thank you. Mr Roman Kubíček will now appear, then Mr Josef Bernard and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u82	Thank you for the floor. I was warned by the Minister of Finance that I made a mistake, I apologize for that, the tax freedom day wasn't 13. 7. but 13. 6. It happens to me every 10 years at most, but I feel the need to get it right. Just a little point, though. I found it in the press four months ago when the Prime Minister said that the overall tax burden of citizens would not grow, those are your words, as it works, it doesn't exactly seem like it, and I'm going to ask one small question. I remember when we were dealing with a windfall tax here and we pointed out that this is a very problematic tax collection, which was predicted to be some amount, it's going to be about half today, and if the reaction to the tax increase hasn't just occurred because the $50 billion is missing. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u83	Thank you. Mr. Josef Bernard will now speak, then the final point of fact - Mr. Michal Kohajda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u84	Thanks again for the word, and I won't hold up much longer. Mr Nacher, through you, Mr President, he calls on us several times to see what is growing in this package. The whole package is booming, Mr. Colleague. Because we are moving on a triangle that you have never experienced in your government. The triangle is slowed growth, high inflation, and an unprecedented deficit. And what is most troubling today by entrepreneurs that are disrupting their growth is the high inflation, and the Czech National Bank is fighting against inflation, which we repeated here yesterday. You're an economist, if I'm right, and what the government can do is moderate fiscal behavior by the government. And that's what's happening now. The biggest problem that we can get stuck with today's business sector is that inflation will last a long time, like five, six years of seven, eight percent. You don't think the government's trying to fight inflation as a good cause? [[11.00 hours]] And the other thing. You think the price of products determines a 2% tax increase? No. The price of products is determined by the market, my colleague. This is a fundamental economic error to interpret that an increase in corporate tax of 2% will increase the price of products.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u85	Thank you. Mr Michael Kohajda, Mr Karel Havlíček, Mr Patrik Nacher. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u86	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must respond, by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Havlíček. There was no Greek script here. It was said here that the debt rate is really extreme today - this year, last year, previous years, that the fact that we are at some 42 percent of GDP today is very close to the debt brake threshold, which is 55 percent of GDP. In our legal order it is shifted to 60, which is the maximum given by the EU regulation, but currently our settings were 55, the maximum is 60. And how fast can we get to that border? And that line is crucial. After all, we know exactly what will happen at that point, what will not be possible, what budgets, not just the state, but all the budgets of all public bodies, that the possibility of concluding contracts will be limited, we have it all in the law on budgetary liability rules. And that's the line that none of us wants to get to, not just the opposition and the coalition. It's just that nobody in this state wants to get into a situation where they can't - for example, every common community - plan their long-term investments. So I don't think what we're hearing here is that the current debt ratio is awful. It's a terrible pace, and that's the thing we have to deal with here, not just because of today's situation and today's government, but because of the government that's coming in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u87	Thank you. Now Vice-President Karel Havlíček, then Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u88	I feel like I'm slowly defending your Treasury Secretary, he should defend himself here. [[with a smile]] The rate of debt is exactly on the euro area average. But I agree with you, it's not a good debt. It's the right thing to do. The whole discussion was about one thing, if this situation is catastrophic - and I say that Greece was in a catastrophic state, and I didn't just say what the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister said here, but let's not do that, it's just a fact of terminology. What was important was what the chairman of the Committee on Budgets said. I just want to add how I agree with you that these businesses are obviously suffering from inflation. But watch out, they're more concerned with the effect of inflation. Of course, inflation is the cause there. And what is bothering them most today - and it was also during the energy crisis, in fact even in the covid age - was the total unpredictability of how this environment would develop. This, of course, does not depend on investment, whether in some technology or innovation, and that is what I am very concerned about, that is what can hold us back. And the unpredictability is, of course, also due to the government's behaviour, given that certain taxes will increase - not only in the big industry, but also in the small one, I mean in the tradesmen. Because raising the minimum social contribution of CZK 21,000 is certainly not negligible. And that's what they didn't count on, finally your finance minister promised them or claimed that there was no such thing in April. As for one more comment that you said, yesterday we agreed that both the national bank and the Czech National Bank are fighting inflation, but the government must also fight with regard to whether it is cost inflation or demand inflation, and that is how we use the instruments. And this government missed the time when it went to cost inflation, relied on the national bank and didn't regulate, or didn't in time take measures that would at least partially reduce inflation. As a result, we have it twice as high as the European Union average during this year and last year. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u89	Thank you, too. Now again, Mr Patrik Nacher, a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u90	Thank you. I still have to respond to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. Mr colleague, through the Vice-President, it is quite logical. The moment you raise taxes, it's not just the corporate tax, but here we're talking about raising VAT on a whole range of services from 10 to 21 percent, 11 percentage points, so you're going to increase costs, they're all going to get more expensive, they're not going to leave it to each other, just like the mortgage fee is being argued here for early repayment that the banks won't leave it to each other. Then at least be consistent. This means that tax increases are clearly upside-down. Inflationary. [[Emphasis.]] Because the prices of services, goods will increase, that is completely logical. When it comes to the business environment, because it has something to do with it, it's where, when you're talking to these businessmen, they're bothered by the unpredictability of these changes. You with a big pomp cancel the EET, and then you increase the income tax by two percentage points to those innkeepers, and then you increase their VAT on the beer once, about the 11 percentage points - as they were said before that the taxes would not increase. That's what this is about. That means it's unpredictable. And that's absolutely crucial to those entrepreneurs, it's not just about the tax itself. This means that these measures are upside-down, not anti-inflationary, and with those entrepreneurs, they just don't know what they can expect from that government. Even I'll tell you this. The package we're discussing today is not in its final form. You yourself have reported that you are putting amendments there. You yourself, as chairman of the budget committee and STAN, said the Treasury Department is using a housenumer. So no one really knows how this package ends, not even you as a government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u91	Thank you. Now I need to agree on a follow-up. Because Mr Michael Kohajda is registered with a factual remark, and then I saw President Schillerová's application, but that is with priority rights? With priority rights, okay. So then, Mr Bernard, with a point of fact, you wanted to respond? Okay. First of all, Mr Michael Kohajda and then Mr Bernard, with a factual remark. Mr. Kohajda, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u92	Thank you. I would like to turn, through you, to my colleague Nacher. If we are to be consistent and logical, so if we raise taxes and increase the price of products, then of course we are reducing value added tax on food. So you logically and consistently say that the price of food will decrease, that we are doing it right, and logically and consistently you are saying that this is an anti-inflationary measure. What you just said here doesn't work. It's not logical and consistent, what you said, it's only half the fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u93	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, don't shout at each other, just get off on the microphone. Mr Bernard will now appear, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u94	I promise this will be the last time, I'll give the Prime Minister priority. Well, I'll follow up on what fell here. There are taxes and taxes. For VAT yes, there we can assume that in the short term VAT has a negative effect on inflation if we increase VAT. After all, VAT - the total amount of the change is minus CZK 6 billion. Do we understand each other? If anyone says that the 3% we're cutting down on, for example, food isn't going to go into prices, then you're actually saying -- all the people in the stores that run it are cheaters. They're going to use it not to reflect on food prices by reducing VAT by 3%. Oh, wait, is that it, or isn't it? Are we reducing VAT in this state by a total of 6 billion by how we set it up? We're not. Okay. So we're reducing for me, so the positive income for VAT citizens is CZK 6 billion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u95	Thank you. Mr Robert Králíček's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u96	I would just politely ask Mr Bernard, through Mr President, not to put something in our mouth that we have not said. If that's what you think, it's your opinion, but don't put it in our mouths. Don't tell us we're talking about someone who's a fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u97	Thank you. We have now exhausted the factual points and will continue to apply for preferential rights. President Alena Schillerová is the first to sign up as another Member of Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Unfortunately, I'm going to respond primarily to the Prime Minister. I've been waiting patiently, because I'm sure two minutes won't be enough, and he's not here in the meantime, so I'm very sorry, so maybe he'll hear it or read it in the log. Neither is the Minister of Finance here. I'm especially sorry to hear that. I'll respond to the VAT debate here. No cheaters, no cheaters, that doesn't belong here. It's classic - and I say it like an elderly tax collector - a classic phenomenon. If you raise the tax - and this is true for the consumer that you said here yesterday that you would raise it - if you raised the tax, it would reflect on the price, and if you just lower it, it wouldn't show up on the price. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's gonna be. That means, where you raise the VAT, everyone will feel it, and that 3% will keep the strings - and you won't watch it, you don't stand a chance in those thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of items to check. And that's how it's gonna be, and you're gonna know it when you get the credit. So you're doing something that's pointless, that's going to cost people life in most items - and yet fiscally, that's totally out of line for me. Well, I hope it's polite... Mr Vice-President, that you're still going to lose over four billion on the state budget financially. [[He's turning around.]] But at public budgets, it's over six, so it's completely incomprehensible to me. And now, please, to the Prime Minister's performance. Maybe it's a good thing I'm performing now, even though I'm sorry he's not here, I'm very sorry, because I'd like you to listen to this. In the meantime, I've calmed down, although I'm basically a calm person, but the pressure has lifted up a little during that series of factual remarks, because it was incredible, incredible, what falls out of the Prime Minister's mouth here without any betrayal, resentment, convincingly... the legacy - I took notes - the legacy of socialist thought. I remember how nearly the debt was approaching forty-five percent of GDP when Andrej Babiš became Minister of Finance and entered the government for the first time. As it decreased, it's all traceable when he was the Minister of Finance. We haven't inherited any unindebted land here, on the contrary, brutally indebted. After a brutal increase in the taxes of your ODS governments, including other coalition partners, TOP 09 and so on. Consequences of populist governments. Before Covid got on, we had a balanced state budget - I guess that wasn't very populist. And then the covid came in, and we invested in people, in companies, compensated. Were you against it? Didn't you raise your hands for it? Didn't you call after my colleague Patrik Nacher reminded you yesterday to make the compensation even bigger? Was that the populism? Yes? Then tell the people, tell the businessmen, the companies that we shouldn't have given them a crown, and we should have let them go through with each other. And send the others to the doses. You think that would cost nothing. Or when we were here together with the ODS raised our hand to abolish the real estate tax? Was that populist? When the Prime Minister's mouth... Or when we're here together with the ODS raised our hand to cancel the super-gross wage? Was that populist too? Of course it cost something, the budgets. So I guess we've taken these populist steps together, as the Prime Minister says. Now, to keep your promises. I just looked it up fast, I don't have everything... Less taxes instead... less taxes, more freedom - ODS passwords I quickly looked up. We don't raise taxes. Tax break for parents. An increase in real estate tax is unacceptable for us. We can't pay tax here, it's not a luxury tax. There's no room to raise taxes... Prime Minister before the election. You don't even raise VAT? - Not even VAT. - Not even a physical income tax? [[persons]] - Not even a personal income tax. - Neither the tax nor the tax nor the tax... nor the tax nor the tax will increase any tax. Where are the ODS promises? That's right-wing, conservative parties. Where are the promises? Well, I'm gonna move on. We'll save on the expense side. 120 billion was the first amount. Then it was 100. Then 80. In a New Year's speech in 2023, the Prime Minister spoke of 70 billion on the spending side. Let's see. If the government had fulfilled its commitment and repeated commitments on the consolidation ratio of one to two in favour of the spending party, it should be prepared to save 146 billion on the expenditure side of the budget in view of its intention to increase taxes by 73 billion. That's a clear count. They say one in two, 146. And that would certainly be considered a sufficient pace of consolidation, then we would support an increase in excise taxes on addiction, increase in gambling, exceptions to non-social character, we would add a consistent taxation of companies of a global nature -- of course, if we were to rule, we would add to that a proper tax collection instead of a resignation to create a new grey economy, and we have it in our pocket, don't we? So where's the savings? Where are the 54 at least? Otherwise between us - one in two, but on the banner or on the surface of the Office of the Government during the bombastic May conference was lit - fifty-fifty. One in two, we have all the materials, all the promises, but fifty-fifty lit up there. We don't have those either. Where's the 54.4 billion in subsidies? I'm not gonna argue with you guys about some grant business. I won't if I do or I won't. Put it on the table. Let's see those numbers. How is it possible that your finance minister from the ODS says it publicly - I know it, but I won't say it. What's that? What's that? How do you treat Parliament, to which you have to answer for your work and your work? How do you treat the public where you manage the money you've collected from them? You're gonna keep that a secret? Well, I'll tell you how it is, like the former Treasury Secretary. And I'll show you the item on the item when you finally uncover the 2024 budget, which is also covered in fog. You got nothing. You've got nothing, you've made a bombastic press conference, and then you're gonna try to quietly sweep it under the carpet, the expense side. You've got nothing. Just empty promises. I could talk here for hours about your budget for 2023. I was totally pissed... but I'll keep that when the minister gets back. I'm sure I'll tell him in the next few days when we sit here and talk about the consolidation package, the fact that I'm learning from the Journalist List what's going on with the budget - unbelievable. I'm the Vice-President of the Budget Committee, and I don't know that. I just don't know it, but a journalist knows it to the List, who's already writing articles about it, how excellent it is, how it's improved. What's that? What kind of world is this that you brought back here? [[Strongly.]] Is this the new era? That's the improvement? Are those the new tomorrows? No, they're not for me. The budget of 2024, to say Prime Minister - the deficit will be 235 to 271 billion. Is that normal? You're supposed to have the frameworks by the end of June prescribed for the chapters! You're supposed to be working on that budget! None of this is happening. So, I'd have too much to say, too much to say, what I'd like to say here. I would need the Prime Minister to sit here so that we can sort of face-to-face this, and absolutely the bomb of this day - I've been hearing here for a year now that inflation has been growing brutally, that the Czech National Bank is going to deal with it, and that the government isn't doing anything about it, and so on and so forth, it's just all excuses. Today, when we - and of course there is no result on champagne, I will now go commenting on Czech Television as soon as I finish here, and I will tell you what I think about it, about the inflation of today, which is for the first time after 10 percent, but it is not for any champagne - so today, when it is 9.7%, the Prime Minister is going to announce it personally. He didn't know anything about it before, the 19 percent. It's nothing, it's nothing, it's just a thing... it's not our fault, it's just the Czech National Bank that doesn't do it well and so on. Well, as a result, he's going to announce it himself today. You know, completely absurd! Completely absurd. In addition to thanking him for admitting that he finally acknowledged that now that this is the result of good government activity, 19 percent was also the result of bad government activity, right? I guess we can agree on that. So we cannot once claim that this is the result of the government's work, and one day it claims that this is not the result of the government's work. Isn't it? [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] [[11.20 hours]] In addition to thanking him for admitting that he finally acknowledged that now that this is the result of good government activity, 19 percent was also the result of bad government activity, right? I guess we can agree on that. So we cannot say once that this is the result of the government's work and once claim that this is not the result of the government's work. Isn't it? [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] There. So apart from the fact that it's been since the late 1990s, as I quickly looked at the CSU website, the worst result, is, of course, from the elevated base last year, otherwise look at the record inflation that was, I think, before that year 2017, the two percent. It is clear that our prices have increased by almost ten percent since the record inflation, and so we have increased by how much since 2021? By 25 percent in total? So now we praise each other for it. Well, I'm gonna end this performance with one word. This government raises taxes, lowers pensions, slows down the valorization, it's just a reduction in pensions for me and ends. It will end and suffer through the Straka Academy until the election in 2025. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u99	I'm recording two factual points. First off, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Michael Kohajda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u100	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. One last reaction to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. There it is, my colleague, through the Vice-President, price elasticity. Of course, the moment something's increasing, it's reflected in those prices right away. I'll give you other examples so you can imagine. When the price of oil rises, we see it practically immediately at the petrol stations. When it goes down, it's a bit late. It has always been, and the different reasons are that they still have to sell supplies there and so on. Same for interest rates. When interest rates rise, you see it as a matter of principle immediately for loans, and with some delay for savings products. And the other way around, of course, when it goes down. And it's the same here. If the VAT or income tax goes up, of course, everyone's going to project it into those prices because they're going to have a reason to go live, because you're actually bragging about it here. While there's a slight drop -- and now we're at the elasticity, a slight drop, like 15 to 12 percent of the food price, of course -- and I'm not going to blame them, these chains are going to have a lot of reasons not to project it by those three percentage points. Because maybe their income tax will increase, because they take unpredictable energy costs and so on. That's what we're talking about here. And you're still questioning this, which is proven several times. So you're going to lower it on your eye, and you're going to rely on food prices to drop by three percentage points everywhere. I already challenged someone here yesterday, I don't know who, let's make a bet. Let's make a bet if this really happens. And then I like to admit that I was wrong. And that's what it's about, the sensitivity of the price to the price or the price to the price to the price.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u101	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Michael Kohajda, then Mr Josef Cogan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u102	Thank you. I don't think we should use the simplification here. I have listened carefully to my colleague Schillerová, through you, Mr President. She's the master of simplification. I quote, "When the tax goes up, the price goes up, when the tax goes down, the price doesn't go down." That's what she said to value added tax. So what I'm asking here is, why was the opposition's request to lower the value added tax rate to zero when, in the words of my esteemed colleague, when the tax goes down, the price doesn't fall? It's the simplification that's always used here. My colleague Nacher here, through you, makes it clear. But the message that was said here and it doesn't matter whether we're going to go behind our heads or not, the message was, when the tax goes up, the price goes up when the tax goes down, the price doesn't go down, the value added tax. In this logic, it is clear why a VAT reduction was requested so that the state would lose its tax revenues and that food producers could keep it on their margins. Which producers do you think?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u103	Thank you. There are three factual points. Mr Josef Cogan, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Milan Feranec, will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u104	So, ladies and gentlemen, I would actually return, unfortunately, to the fact that the chairman of the ANO Club was talking about that year 2013. And it's like in the beginning she's telling us all these stories about how you actually turned it around in 2013, and how you actually acted responsibly. I'd say in 2013, you found it blind to violins. It's just that at that point, the overall conjucture just changed, and you basically didn't use the potential that was based on the fact that the state had acted responsibly before. In Germany, for example, all the time from 2013 until 2019, they had surpluses, all the time, all the time until the covid. You had two surpluses just because the money came from European subsidies. This is true of Germany, it is pure, who gives more spending to the European Union and, moreover, has taken care of the recent crisis. You wasted the potential we had at the time. For example, Germany reduced the debt by 23 percent. So, actually, at that point, you were lucky enough to come at some point when the previous government, because it was trying to act responsibly, prepared good ground. And you wasted it, and that's just reality as reality. And basically in 2020, when the covid started, when the deficit was 28 billion, the covid practically saved you. Because at that point, the state's management was almost the worst in all those times. And the covid that came in brought you some luck again, which you got the second time. Because actually at that point, he covered up your irresponsibleness, which at that point was seen and peaked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u105	So let's continue with the factual notes. As another Member, Patrik Nacher, Milan Feranec, Jan Volný and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I guess I'm gonna have to leave the O.R., 'cause when I hear it, then I have to respond. First of all, Mr. Honorable colleague Cogan. You're actually describing it.... [[President: Through me.]] Excuse me? [[President: Through me.]] Yes, of course, through you. So you describe it as, like, whenever the YES movement is in the government, it's very lucky. While whenever you're there, you're very unlucky. [[Fun and applause for members of the ANO movement.]] It seems pretty untrustworthy, but I'll leave you to it. As regards the response to my colleague Kohajda, through the Vice-President. Well, he doesn't care what the fall is. I don't see him here right now. If the drop is fifteen percentage points, from fifteen to zero to fifteen to five, or something like that, by ten percentage points, it's obviously hard to cover it up for the vendors and the chains. But if it's by two, three percentage points - I hope the finance minister agrees with me - just when it's tiny, it's a percentage point, so it's very easy to hide. Let there be direct evidence for you. You're suggesting a VAT reduction package for books from ten to zero. That's ten percentage points. That should be shown by now. That should be done. That's ten percentage points. And they say they don't. See? How do you predict that if you lower it from 15 to 12, it'll reflect the three percentage points into it? He won't screen for me, and you think he will. Let's make a bet, see who's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u107	Thank you. Mr. Milan Feranec, Mr. Jan Volný, Mr. Ondřej Lochman and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to what Mr Kohajda said. In part, he explained it actually, and this is about whether it is reflected, not reflected in the prices, already partly explained by colleague Nacher actually. Three percent or fifteen percent difference. But most importantly, it's like public control. Customer control. And how did they solve it in Poland? Mandatory labelling for food prices, price before VAT reduction to zero and then. [[11.30 hours]] Everyone can see that. It's hard for a businessman to afford - because of course he's interested in having people come to him. So this is a simple example. The public control, the customer, and they're really gonna see it, and they're gonna make their own decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u109	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný now, Mr Ondřej Lochman, Mr Michael Kohajda and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's a really fast setback here, and when I get to the point of fact, my colleagues are gonna say part of it. I will not respond at all to the speech of the Chairman of the STAN Club because it is obvious that he does not understand this absolutely and that he does not know what he was talking about, what the economy is, what the macroeconomics are. But I will touch what Mr Kohajda says. There you can see that he's just completely out of line, because he's talking about that Babiš guy making money again to cut his VAT. Please, if VAT is reduced and it is not reflected in prices, it is mainly the margin and profit of business chains and networks and traders, not the producers of chickens, sausages and milk. So it can't stay with Mr. Babiš, but it stays with businessmen. It's your blindness and the fight against the only thing that's actually adequate for you, and that's the fight against Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u111	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondřej Lochman, Michael Kohajda, Petr Letocha and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak very briefly only, through Mr President, to Mr Volný. While you, Mr Volný, were not in the House at that time, President Josef Cogan was in the House working on it with the government to make the savings. When I remember when I became mayor in two 2014, I was a rather young mayor who came to the government completely new, I wasn't in the government before. There was a lady, the head of the financial department, who was some 60 and says - from last year our economy has been looking good, since 2012, 2013, thanks to the savings and everything that was here. Now those years 2014 and beyond it looks very good with the Czech Republic because we are on the good trajectory. So this confirms that the government that was here, the two governments, had a very good moment. So the Republic just did well, it did well in Europe as well. There were revenues, there were high incomes. What was the result? Our country has spared nothing. In the end, you killed it by having the biggest deficits in the history of this state. That's the result. Then there's another manipulation that's been going on and on and on, or one fact that may need to be corrected. He keeps saying that we now have the fastest debt in our country in Europe. We do, and last January, when we inherited the state budget, we had it. We said that several times, and in the discussions that I was in, I was mostly called YES - well, the overall debt is not that big. The fact that we are now in debt so quickly is another matter. We're the ones who inherited it from you. We all know what we're sitting here... We can say something here in front of the counter, but if we're talking very rationally together, we all know that turning the helm always takes 2, 3, years. We know, so let's not lie in our pockets and be rational about this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u113	Thank you, too. Mr Michael Kohajda, Mr Petr Letocha, Mr Oldřich Černý and others, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u114	Thank you. I'm sorry we're not listening to each other. I was quoting President Schillerová, who is not here right now, her performance. When the tax rises, the price goes up when the tax goes down, the price doesn't go down. This is how she commented on the influence on VAT. I said it was simplistic, that it wasn't true. A colleague here will come after me, through you, a esteemed colleague Patrik Nacher, and he will say the same. He'll say it's not true. Well, I don't know where we're at. I said your chairman's speech was wrong, it wasn't true, it was simplistic, and after me, a colleague will actually come forward who will say the same, in other words, and there will be a dispute? Please, let's listen to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u115	Thank you. As another MP, Petr Letocha, Oldřich Černý, Josef Bernard and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I would also like to be involved in this debate. I had it prepared for proper registration, but at least from the speedster I can respond to what was going on here a few words ago. I've got a graph prepared here, which I'm sure you all know. It's basically a modified graph, I'd say updated, something you haven't actually noticed. [[He's showing a graph to the O.R.]] It's that basically, in 2021, covid was here, in 2020, too. But besides that, in 2022, we dealt with the war, the energy crisis. Despite the fact that the YES movement could not have known that the war and the energy crisis would be here, it tried to propose a state budget so that under the debt of the general government sector, the debt ratio was 46.2. Our government did it in 42.8. At the same time, in the budgetary perspective, we discussed that the debt in GDP was to be 49.2 and in 2024 even 51.8. This is basically the budget forecast. [[Member Nacher argues that the graph is modified.]] Yes, I've just altered the graph here, Patrik, I've just modified it. Because you actually ended up - sorry, through Mr President - that I modified it in the sense that it looks like this graph is going up under our government. But how would he go under the rule of Andrej Babiš? How did you predict it? I think today we're talking about measures that aren't popular that can hurt someone. But I'm afraid if the government of Andrej Babiš were to remain here, the measures would have to be much worse today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u117	Thank you. Now Mr. Oldřich Černý, Josef Bernard, Stanislav Fridrich and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues, I am astonished. I'm amazed at the comedy that's happening here. I would like to comment, through Mr President, on several people who have spoken here about food, about increasing or reducing. Of course, the people who tell you that when the price goes up, everyone likes to raise the price when it's going down, so no one wants to go down very quickly. But I'd like to put you on the ground a little bit. Let's go -- and I'll be happy to go with you -- let's go to the store, where the people are. Let's get out of these pointless graphs and lectures you read and quote nonsense people don't understand. Come and see, the prices are rising all the time. They will grow by December, and then in December - unfortunately I have to tell my colleague Nacher, by your means, if he wants to bet someone, he will lose the bet - because at that time, as I said, the prices will rise by December, then they will take out the signs that were in front of me now and when he raises the prices to 200, 250, %, so they will say - we are cutting by three percent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u119	Colleagues, colleagues, we will continue. This is a request for everyone to discuss. Do not promote gambling here and do not bet, but discuss. Mr. Josef Bernard, Richard Brabec, Karel Havlíček and others. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u120	I wanted to ask you, colleagues, for one thing - I offer peace. Let's not talk about who's responsible anymore, because we'll never agree on it. We in the coalition, too, may have a different opinion on abolishing a super-gross wage. I admit that we in the coalition, too, may differ in the view of super gross wages. I wanted to offer you one thing. We're dealing with some consolidation measures, let's get back to the individual measures. I'm not really making a patent on reason with my colleagues, and I'm saying that there may be something wrong set up that some of your suggestions can be really rational. I'm just warning you that we consider the state of public finances so problematic that we want the consolidation of 150 billion crowns after the two years. Then I don't want to lecture them, but elasticity is a state of price and demand. It was misused here in some other example, but I don't really want to lecture academically here. I offer, come with individual suggestions, we will be happy to discuss them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u121	Thank you. Mr Richard Brabec, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček and Jiří Strýček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u122	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on what President Cogan has said here, by your means, Mr President. Do you think, President Cogan, that great government whose career ended with the intervention of police officers in Strakovka and against which, of course, hundreds of thousands of people protested against whose policies and inadequate fight against corruption and other things at Wenceslas in 2012? You mean this government that left us all these great conditions? And please don't tell me covid was lucky for someone. Do not blasphemy, my colleague, through the President, so do not blasphemy directly and without means, but I address you through the President. I think we all agree that covid wasn't lucky for anyone, thousands of people died here, and I never thought covid was lucky for anyone. The truth is, if he wasn't a covid, yes wins 40 percent, and you're on us, you'd be yelling at us from the opposition today, and that would be good luck for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u123	Mr Karel Havlíček, Member Jiří Strýček, Mr Josef Cogan, will be next with a factual remark, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u124	Well, thank you. I, on the one hand, agree with what President Bernard said, so that we may end this, but only because I am a man of numbers, so I have to question what Mr Letocha and Mr Lochman both said through Mr President. That's crazy for Mr. Letocha. So we're going to show you a graph that's obvious, relevant. [[It's showing a graph.]] And you say no, we'll show you if it's what it would be like if you were there. Well, I could go on like this, and I could say what the debt would look like at the time of the covid, if we took your suggestions on how much to put in the economy. I figured it out, and according to your statements, your representatives, it would be CZK 200 billion more, which means there would be something completely different, but it's not worth it, it's crazy this discussion. What is significantly more inaccurate or very general, what Mr Lochman said. He said the debt thing went faster from January 2022. So numbers, Mr. Ambassador. For 2020, the euro area was indebted at a rate of 7.1 %, the Czech Republic 5,8%. 2021 eurozone 5.3 %, Czech Republic 5.1 %, I mean public finance deficit. And the year 2022, when you were already you, 3.6 % of the eurozone and 3.6 % of the Czech Republic. In other words, it is not true that we were more indebted in covid, on the contrary, in covid time we were indebted slower than the eurozone. And in 2022, it's on the same level. I don't want to argue with you, let's take a look at the numbers, but since you're putting it in, please don't shoot. Have fun by numbers, it's about the economy, and that's, let's say, a little less than... Nothing. I'm done commenting. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u125	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Jiří Strýček, then President Josef Cogan, Mr. Petr Letocha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u126	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would just like to briefly respond to what the President of the Stan Cogan parliamentary club has said about 2013 and the Government of the YES 2013 and 2017. Well, you know, in 2012, a tax package was prepared, just like it's being prepared now. And this tax package, which we all know, Minister Stanjura remembers it very well, how he approved and what he brought us, he threw us into a recession from which we were still digging out in 2014. And the other countries of Europe were already out of it. It's very easy to raise taxes. But anyone who worked at a company knows how negative any lifting on the company, its competitiveness, product sales, and so on. And in these times, and this was in 2013 and maybe it's about now, it's about helping these companies, not tightening their reins. Because these recovery packages are absolutely pro-growth, anti-growth. Sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u127	Thank you. Mr Cogan now, then Mr Petr Letocha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u128	So I clearly insist that in 2013, and in the years to come, you just wasted the opportunity that was clearly the fiscal responsibility here. And we can compare, for example, the states of Germany and France, where Germany actually acted in a similar way to the Czech Republic and France did what you might suggest. And compare the evolution of the debt that they had in that decade and with the debt they entered into the next problem when the covid came into existence. That covid, that may have been exaggerated, and I'm sorry if anyone saw it from the point of view of the covid, yes, that was a very serious situation. On the other hand, I want to say and repeat just before the start of the covid in February, I think that there was a record deficit of 28 billion, and basically you've pumped out all the different resources that were in that state budget and you've just gotten to the edge, where the budget would actually be significantly worse that year. And if you're any numbers now, I'll tell you the comparison in the last few years. In 2021, when you last ruled, you spent 128 on the hundred crown that the state chose. In the next year, when the new government came and tried to take your trajectory, the incredible trajectory of debt, how it was going to cut, it went down to about 1.22. That means he spends CZK 122 on a hundred crown. This year we're trying to make it 115. And that's the exact example here that in two years, we've managed to reduce the variance by almost half. We're trying, it's complicated, it's hard, but we're just gonna keep trying because we're responsible because we have a responsibility for the future, and that's why we're gonna keep dealing with these things responsibly. You just don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u129	Thank you. Real notes are still growing. First, Mr Petr Letocha, then Mr Radek Vondráček, Robert králíček and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u130	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond by your Presidency, through, sorry, by your means to the Vice-President about the chart. [[It's showing a graph.]] He's basically your graph, Mr Vice-President, that's your data. The only thing I actually added was your budget proposal for 2022 in 2021. And that's the blue column over the red one because that's what you were missing. And I want to show that you basically budgeted a bigger deficit than you blame us. Not to mention that, in the medium term, you budgeted significantly more debt within GDP, even by 7.7 % in 2024. That means I'm not making anything up. As the graph is yours, so the budget is yours, and basically you did this graph, you just didn't tell us that if you were here, your medium-term budget outlook was even worse than the one you're blaming us for. And the incentive that was supposed to be in my contribution was the one that I mentioned earlier, and I'm happy to repeat that if we were talking here about the fact that in 2022, you would find out that there was some kind of war, some kind of energy crisis, which, by the way, your long-term forecast wasn't counting, those numbers would be somewhere else, and today we'd be talking about completely different tax changes. That's what I'm talking about. Because at this point, we're counting on the war because we live in it. We're counting on the energy crisis, and we have budgets just as high here. But you didn't count on it and you budgeted it even more than we do now that we are in a factual situation where we have to deal with the migration crisis, when we have to deal with the energy crisis. So these are your numbers, I'm just interpreting them as you probably don't like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u131	Thank you, we will continue with factual remarks, first Mr Radek Vondráček, Robert králíček, Jiří Mašek and others. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u132	Well, thank you for your word. I'm not an expert on economic issues, I'm basically inspired by my colleague Cogan's enthusiasm. A retired man came to me at some meeting with voters and showed me the figures that actually because of the surplus that Mr. Finance Minister Babiš had at the time of Sobotkův's government, actually the entire Sobotkův government, the whole four-year period being averaged, so it was surplus. [[11.50 hours]] Try to look into it. Try to do the math. That's right, when you were talking about how something was wasted and lost here, the whole government was actually slightly surplus. And that would close it. And I'd like to ask everyone, I know it's related, it's closely related, the budget is closely related to the tax package, but if we could go back to the tax package and the rest of us could get out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u133	Yes, that's right. In any event, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, factual remarks take precedence over priority rights and duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u134	I would also like to respond to the remark made by Minister Stanjura, which he has now made to you, Mr President. I liked Mr Bernard's performance, I don't know him personally, but according to the discussion, he seems like a pragmatic person who discusses the subject. But I feel like if you had it rehearsed: you let Mr. Cogan out of the cage, then Mr. Letocha goes, then Mr. Lochman goes, they insult us, beat us here, I'm not gonna say he's making up or lying, Mr. Letoch comes up with some virtual reality, in case there's any arguments, we're gonna scare Babiš, if he rules here, it's gonna get worse. And then you come in and say, let's calm down, Minister Stanjura will say, let's go back or react. I agree with that. But we weren't the ones who brought in the ten twenty actual ones. Because I think we really had a constructive discussion, or at least we tried, not all of us maybe, but it was a constructive debate before Mr. Cogan came and did his lavage. That's the only way I can call it. And don't be mad at me, what Mr. Letocha said, so if I could just transfer it to that corny joke when he stops Mr. Letocha in the car, that he's overspeed, that he's driven 120 kroner (?), so he could say, yeah, but if Babiš went, he'd go 150. And, despite Mr President's recommendation, I would like to bet on this gamble, and I would like to tax this bet 100%. How long will you make excuses for Mr. Babiš? I'm guessing 2030.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u135	Before I give the next word, we're going to have a discussion. I mean, Mr. Ambassador, no one is released from any cage here. As part of these comments, I would like to ask for some proofreading. Now, please, Mr. Jiří Mašek, Mr. Ondřej Lochman, Mr. Berenika Peštová and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u136	Mr President, by your means to President Cogan, you used a comparison between 2019 and 2020, or those covido years, and there you said that there were 128 CZK of expenditure for a hundred revenue in 2020 and that you were waving it around and that you got it to 22 CZK in 2022 for that hundred crown. I'd like to say that this is an incomparable period, because the covid with the expenses... it was just clear, but with you 22 kroner, if I was bragging about something, I'd say that we've withdrawn it to ten crowns, plus if you could handle energy prices, inflation, and other things that, unlike the covid, were influential. So please don't compare incomparables. And if you compare it, let it be with the knowledge that you were able to take those steps, did not make them, and the 22 crowns for that hundred crown in 2022 are a disgrace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u137	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Ondřej Lochman, then Mrs Berenika Peštová and Mrs Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u138	Thank you. For me very briefly. We don't judge anyone. It's just, if I were to compare it to some of the performances here yesterday, we're not personal here, we're talking about our opinion of the economy, these results. This is just Robert Králíček - Robert and I represent... through the President, the State of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we call it, we talk about it in person. [[President: Through me.]] So just, Robert, please, no one here personally offends anyone, through Mr President, here personally. And I think that then to add to that statement that you made to the chairman of our MP's club is exactly what shouldn't be happening. So here's where I want to say, let's really not be personal. And I just wanted a performance for a quick comment. What I was talking about and what my colleague Havlíček responded to, several articles came out in the summer of 2022, the Czech Republic was the fastest-indebted country in the EU, economic growth was among the lowest. The SAO report and so on. That is, through the President, Mr Karel Havlíček, that is what I was talking about. Let's compare the data. I'm saying the Republic was in debt pretty damn fast. And, yes, the trend hasn't been reversed yet. And that's why we're discussing the economic package today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u139	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mr Patrik Nacher. Two factual points. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u140	Thank you for the floor. I will start from the end at Mr Lochman, through Mr President. You know, when you read those articles, you have to read them to the end. I understand that the first title is the fastest-indebted one, but then you have to look at the place where the debt is, yeah, that's gonna go all the way downstairs. So the article would be nice if you read it to the end. That's up to you, Mr. Ambassador, through... [[The speaker shows his laptop and explains.]] Don't talk to me, take the facts, we'll talk later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u141	Mr. Lochman, that's exactly what I'm asking you to do over the microphone. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u142	And now I would like to see Mr Letocha, through Mr President. You know, I'm not an economics expert like you, but I think I'm pretty big, but unfortunately I'm not that perfect in economics, so I'm using that common sense. You guys are gonna pull up some graphics and say what would have happened if you had. Yeah? But you don't know how that government or that government would behave in the situation that you were in, that is, how it would deal with the energy crisis, how it would deal with the windfall tax, you can't know how it would deal with the ceiling. So your "what would have been if" reminds me of this grandfather who's crying in Wenceslas Square, and when they ask him why he's crying, he says, "I cry if I had a granddaughter and that granddaughter poke out her eye what a disaster it would be." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u143	Well, thank you, too. Mr Patrik Nacher's point of view now. So far, the final point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u144	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Letocha to lend me the chart first. [[He refuses.]] Then he won't. So he's probably ashamed of him or I don't know, he won't lend me the chart. [[Fun in the hall.]] I'm going to have a smaller one, I'm going to have a smaller graph. [[He's pointing.]] So I'm smaller, so I use a smaller graph. We've already cleared that up with the button here. And it's hard to... It's hard to argue with this, what would be if. Because he used the graph here, then he put something beyond how we would have prepared the budget. On the other hand, I'm gonna offer him something that's not in theory, but what would be if he was in practice. And I'm coming back again, and you're always going to cut it loose, to all your amendments, in terms of compensation in covid. If all your proposals to increase the compensation in the covide went through, we'd be 200, 250 billion more. That's not what it would be if it were. That would be what it would be if it passed. So it wouldn't be 42 percent of GDP, it would be debt, but 43, 44, so it would be sharper, the debt would be much, much bigger. So, Mr colleague, like this, be consistent in this and sign up to your amendments from the last parliamentary term that would owe our country more. And that's not what it would be, because that's what you really designed, and I've downloaded it from the system. And please do not compare what would have been, if, some theory, as has already been said here, when you actually presume, as we would have done in a time of energy crisis, at the time of the start of the war in Ukraine and so on. There. So many comments. I'm sorry my colleague Letocha won't lend me his chart. I'd show it a lot more plastic than on this little piece of paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u145	Thank you. I note here two further factual points - first Mr Robert králíček, then Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u146	I'm gonna be very short. I already did it myself, but I want to do it publicly. I apologize to Mr Cogan through the President. My statement was inadequate. I'm an emotional person, but I'll be careful. It doesn't belong here. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now Minister Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u148	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of all benches, whether government or coalition, I am, of course, the promoter of this law, so it is assumed that I will be here essential, if not the whole part of the debate. It was ten o'clock yesterday, it's gonna be longer today. But if we continue with a series of factual comments where I don't actually know, I don't have 70 minutes to step up to, then you can't just ask me to sit here all the time. [[12.00 hours]] I'm ready, and I think I answered the questions that came yesterday, too, because some of you are now performing the way that you're all going to stay here with me until midnight, which you've now had factual comments, so they're going to consider it fair, and I'm going to take my words back. Of course, if one of you leaves and isn't here with me by midnight, it's just not fair, or it's not fair to ask me to be here all the time. I'm really ready to debate, I supported without a microphone, now I'm actually speaking through the microphone of Mr. Radek Vondráček. Let's get back to the point. Lend me a graph, don't lend me a graph, the graph doesn't have anything to do with it. Let's not say who started and who didn't. I thought it was fair to say, because I've been here for tens of hours, that if this goes on like this, I just can't be here the whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u149	Thank you, Minister. By doing so, we have exhausted all the factual points, and we will now return to the priority rights, and I am giving the floor to President Radim Fial. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u150	I am glad that today, I hope, has ended the chapter of blame, which government is worse and which is better, and you will also give room to other political parties and movements that may not yet have been in those governments. Only what was said here. Let me do one thing. I do, I have to smile because every side, left or right, interprets it so that it works. Some people don't fight inflation, some people don't fight inflation, and I understand that the by-product of inflation is that there are higher tax revenues of the state budget, so when you say that you don't increase taxes against GDP, so it's just, it's obvious, because you choose 120 billion, by not fighting inflation, you pick 120 billion more, so clearly you don't raise taxes, but in absolute terms it is, and you can argue here as you want, ordinary people will take it away, and that's the worst of it. That's what you don't see. You're showing graphs here, but whoever really pays for it, and whoever pays for it will be human. So now for the consolidation package. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something for the SPD movement on the consolidation package which you have presented to us and which we are discussing at first reading. The only legitimate process of government to consolidate public finances in the current economic situation and to tame the country's appallingly growing deficit of state budget and debt would be to rapidly amend the State Budget Act for this year, on the part of expenditure, by reducing them significantly. But I will answer to Minister Stanjur, who has made it clear here that we need to translate some things into Czech. I agree with the first two sentences he said here today, we need the consolidation of public finances, we need it, and the other thing, Minister, I just forgot. [[Help Minister Stanjura from the bench.]] Yeah, if we have public finances in good shape. No, we don't. Absolutely agree. But we're already different in that way, and that's what I want to do today. And maybe he could and should follow the proposal to introduce a withholding tax on dividends paid from profits generated in the Czech Republic and from there hundreds of billions a year spent abroad, including hard supervision of how foreign corporations exploit internal transfers and how they optimize tax liability in the field of corporate tax and newly also in the field of windfall tax. Everything else is redundant, harmful and counterproductive. And the culmination is the current consolidation package, which is a global increase in taxes and taxes to Czech citizens, businessmen and companies. And you can say a hundred times that you're reducing taxes against GDP. In absolute value for people, and that's the most important thing, you're increasing them. And which will not appear in practice until two years later, and that is still very negative. Which is strongly upside-down and which undermines the net disposable income and purchasing demand of Czech households and the competitiveness of Czech companies, and also undermines and undermines our future economic growth, which I think is the worst thing when you see, for example, Poland, which reduces taxes, so we just go the other way. This proposal was not preceded by a good analysis of the situation, not only by me but also by a number of renowned economists. The government's budget is falling apart, not only is it unable to identify the causes of this condition correctly, but, figuratively speaking, it further attaches to the boiler, extinguishes the fire with gasoline, and proposes introducing measures that will make the current situation even worse. An example of this is a chaotic increase in VAT, where the government itself admits that its impact on the state budget's revenue balance will be negative and will also lead to an increase in inflation. This government has no long-term budgetary or economic policy, and it is only staggering from one pseudo-reform to another, even worse than the previous one. And that, I think, is the fundamental and fundamental thing that there is no system, no concepts, no assumptions. All of this accompanied by the release of famous signals. The government's basic material for this package does not contain any meaningful ranking of priorities and there is no macroeconomic context, i.e. forecast for its impact and impact on the development of key macroeconomic indicators. The analysis of RIA for this material does not have a quantification of the impact of the proposed measures on individual types of households, public administration, private sector, seniors and the like. Not even the company. It is full of clichés and general claims, thereby failing to fulfil its fundamental role. The government, as I have already said, completely underestimates or completely ignores inflation risks. At the same time, inflation, or the fight against inflation, should be a major absolute government economic priority. But I'm a little worried, and it's my opinion, and it's my opinion that inflation is kind of good for the government, because, of course, it's an increased tax revenue to the state budget by hundreds of billions every year, so of course, we can interpret, we can talk about the amount of taxation, we can talk about the total debt to GDP, and of course it goes well, but the problem here really exists. The government misinterprets the current situation by saying that falling inflation means falling prices. No. It just means that prices are rising slower than before, but they are still rising. This fact is ignored by the government, both in the impact of the package presented on the costs of companies and households, which have been forced to reduce their consumption record-breakingly in recent months. Here's what I'm gonna do. The GDP deflator is the most comprehensive of the price indices measured by the inflation rate in the economy. The GDP deflator is not based on a consumer basket like other price indices such as the consumer price index, but includes a change in the prices of all goods in the economy, it is calculated on the basis of the quantity of goods in the current period. Last year, consumption of Czech households started to fall sharply according to this indicator, which means that people started saving. In the third quarter by 5.2 % and in the fourth quarter by 5.5 %, and precisely household consumption has become a major factor in the decline of the Czech economy. In the first quarter of 2023, the decline in household consumption continued by 3% this time. The government also does not understand the role of wages in the economy. In line with the fact that we are unfortunately an economic colony, and we talked about this here yesterday morning at the flag of the European Union, often the government's wages are seen only as cargo and their growth as a problem. However, if the Czech economy were to focus more on domestic consumption, wages would be seen as a significant, even a major source of purchasing power, which would, of course, be desirable. Wages and their development are also crucial for the state budget, because they depend on the purchasing power of households, collections, personal income taxes and, indirectly, the collection of VAT and excise duties. It is very difficult to imagine that any consolidation of public finances will be successful if real wages continue to decline strongly, which is now happening for the second year, and this consolidation package will clearly lead to a further decline in net wages. [[12.10 hours]] Due to the abolition of kindergarten fees, the limitation of the tax discount on the wife or the spouse of caring for small children, the abolition of tax advantages on a number of employee benefits or the re-establishing of employee sickness insurance. Working families with children will lose CZK 42,000 a year in this way next year, which is already a big blow. And yet we talked about it, about such pension reform, pension reform, which, of course, is not a pension reform, unless it just includes the birth of children, it will include conditions for families not to be afraid to have children, not to support them, and for demographic curves to increase. So we're going the other way around. We'll take their money to scare them even more. And it also represents an attack on working families with children and single parents, which makes low-income working families fall into a large social welfare system. That's more expenses. We're talking about the fact that we've lost spending in the state budget. Then we'll create another one. We've already created spending - we've increased the welfare allowance for housing, so now we're going to raise more social benefits. But all I'm saying is that the state budget isn't inflatable. After all, it is not possible for people to have a salary or salary and to have four social benefits. That's not possible. Something's wrong, something's wrong in this state. I'll remind you again of the chaotic government chess with VAT. Why does the government resort to such extensive manipulation, which will affect about half of the consumer basket, when its impact has a significant reduction in budget revenues in the finals. Even on the basis of past experience, it cannot be assumed that the reduction in VAT will be reflected in the reduction in end prices for consumers. Two, three percentage points, it just won't happen. I know there's been a long discussion here about who's right and who's wrong. But I am also convinced that if we lower VAT by two, three percentage points, that it doesn't go into end prices, because these people say, these traders say, there's going to be more inflation, so we just don't go into end prices, because who knows what's going to happen in a month, who knows what's going to be in six months and we might miss it. And if you make such an agreement with them, Minister, it's only because they've raised it by hundreds of percent now, and then they'll give you back those two, three percent for half a year, especially if it's not accompanied by hard price controls or margin margins under the Price Act, for example, for food. Like high inflation, tax chaos directly encourages traders to increase their margins, especially when it has been evident for several months, and economists say it from the right and left, such as Lukáš Kovanda or Ilona Švihlíková, that today's inflation is primarily profitable or margin. In addition, it should be noted that very sensitive items of daily needs, medicines, heat, water and sewerage will pass to higher VAT rates. So that's another thing where we're going to get our housing prices up, because of course it's going to be translated into rent, or it's going to just be translated into family financial spending, of course, and it's going to be a problem. A demonstration of how the Fialův Government is serious about consolidating public finances is that it is about to borrow additional money beyond the budget approved by the European Union from the Recovery Science Facility. This is the programme approved in the summer of 2021, which offers the Member States, in addition to subsidies, a refundable loan. According to government officials, the minimum amount of this planned loan should be EUR 3 billion, i.e. nearly CZK 70 billion. This loan will further increase the cost of the State. It just won't be seen at first sight, because it won't be paid back until a few years later. So, Minister, I get it, it's very clever of you, we're gonna borrow it, and you guys coming after us, you're gonna pay for it. Friends, this is no subsidy or grant money, but hard loans in euros, and not exactly cheap. They will have to be repaid, and they will also be secured at exchange rate risk. It also warns the Ministry of Finance's professional apparatus. Record-high inflation affects both the state's income and expenditure. But spending increases dramatically more. Overall, the state has collected 12,9 percent in taxes so far this year, more than last year, i.e. 35 billion extra crowns. The higher tax collection is even slightly higher than headline inflation, which, according to current data in May, reached 11.1 percent. When social security is added to this, total tax revenues increase by 11.3 percent. It's almost exactly how they copy inflation. The huge deficit is due to the fact that spending is growing incomparably faster. The place where the deficit increases sharply is the compensation for high energy prices, which the State pays due to the poor setting and functioning of price ceilings for energy suppliers. And I'd stop by. I am convinced that this is the fundamental upside pressure. Energy prices. For the first five months of this year, the state spent 40 billion crowns on them. This means, if we put in place a social tariff, the SPD says from the beginning that we would have ceilings made so that there would be a production price of energy, electricity plus some acceptable margin, even if it was ten percent, it would be on a social tariff, so of course the prices would be somewhere else entirely. Do you know who does that? For example, Switzerland does so. Switzerland, which sells energy to its citizens and companies at the prices at which it produces them, will come across 10% of it. Do you know how much inflation Švýcarsko has? Four and a half percent. Four and a half percent. If that were the case with us, Minister, we wouldn't have to reduce pension valorisation at all, because you'd be able to manage financially. Maybe you wouldn't buy one tank and you could add to the seniors. The original plan was that what the State would pay to suppliers on these compensations would take back the tax on extraordinary profits, the so-called windfall tax. But I'm convinced it won't work. And I said that right from the start, we're gonna teach those big energy and multinational corporations to optimize and that we're never gonna get it out of them again. So, where did the comrades, in this case, not the GDR, make a mistake? This entire operation will end for the state minus tens of billions of crowns. The government often falsely boasts how it managed to cope with the energy crisis, but the relevant international statistics show that the Czech Republic has recorded one of the highest growths in energy prices in Europe. The government has not intervened here in the interests of customers and consumers, i.e. citizens, households and companies, but only in the interests of energy companies and energy traffickers with record profits. Instead of immediately addressing this crucial issue by radically reducing price ceilings, fixing them in the case of electricity, as I have already said, directly to producers, and immediately ending the payment of public money compensation to energy dealers, because the exchange price of electricity has fallen by 900 euros per megawatt hour over the last year and the production remains as low, it has decided to re-take money from citizens. And so now the end customer pays six CZK per kilowatt hour for the power electricity excluding VAT and other charges, for the gas it is for this part of the price of three crowns. But traders charge any and unlimited, much higher total price and the state pays them the difference from the taxes collected. They're drug dealers, they're energy gangsters, and you work with them. And the amount for these compensations, if the state does not intervene, will increase, because 700 thousand customers will end up fixing earlier lower energy prices during the second half of this year and these customers will jump into the system of erroneous price ceilings later. And the windfall tax. The advances to be paid by the companies and banks concerned this September and December will be calculated on the basis of a fictional tax on their profits last year. However, these profits will be significantly lower this year and, in the final billing next June, they will still have to pay back many billion-dollar overpayments to these companies. And that's really worth it. Prime Minister Petr Fiala is trying to distract himself from reality by meaningless statements such as that the agreement to consolidate this year's budget will be postponed until the end of the summer, when other figures will be reported to be known about the real state of the budget development. [[12.20 hours]] So let's see, I, of course, wish for the Czech Republic and the Czech citizens to keep the deficits as low as possible, but I think it is now unworthy of the responsible Prime Minister's behaviour. But no wonder. We all remember Petr Fiala promising not to raise taxes before the election. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura repeated this last time for breakfast for journalists on 12 April this year. And the month after that, on May 11, this five-police government published its consolidation package, in which it increases all the direct taxes. Corporate tax, income tax on individuals, sickness insurance, pension insurance, contribution to state employment policy and real estate tax. From a government that falsely declares itself right-wing and economically liberal, it is absolutely outrageous that it deepens and extends tax progress on personal income tax, even though there should be only one fair method of such taxation, equal tax, the same tax rate for all its payers. And I would remind you that a temporary tax progression was introduced into the system of equal taxation in 2012 by the Nečasův government. It was formulated as a solidarity premium at the time, and I was there, which was only supposed to be valid for two years. And for her to pass, they said she'd be paying for two years. But they've been paying for 11 years, and you're expanding it to tens of thousands of citizens with income above triple the average wage. Do you know what that means in reality? That each of them will pay CZK 40,000 a year for the operation and implementation of your insatiable and incompetent economic policy. Well, I don't know how to comment, but I definitely have to say, it's not a conservative right-wing government. We are already reaping the bitter fruits of this policy. The average of real cash and non-cash household income per capita declined by 1.2% in the first quarter of this year compared to the previous quarter, by 9,6 percentage points year on year. These are official numbers of the Czech Statistical Office. Real consumption of households per capita has fallen by 2,6 percent quarter on a quarterly basis and decreased by 7.6 percent year on year, and unfortunately I am afraid that the decline will continue. This year's first quarter's average monthly employment income declined by 0.7 percent in real terms compared to the previous quarter and by 8.3 percent in year-on-year. In the consolidation package, therefore, the analysis of previous economic decisions and their effects is completely absent and, instead, I present them to us a list of measures for which there is no priority or other real impact. In particular, I am thinking of the effects on inflation, GDP and economic growth. Of all the government's actions and plans, it is evident that the government is not interested in their macroeconomic context at all. He may not even realize it because there is no real economist in it worthy of this designation, what it means and why it is actually important. Or does the government really think that Czech public finances are in a vacuum independent of inflation, wages, or growth, or decline, or economic performance? Probably, because it's the only way to explain that, in a situation where ordinary drugs have been unavailable for almost a year, the government is willing to propose to raise their VAT rate! The same applies to food prices. In the situation of hidden cartels, where the retail market is completely dominated by three foreign players acting in agreement, the reduction rate will not be reflected at a lower price for consumers at all. That's what I'm talking about. For this, the government would have to use other instruments that I have already mentioned in the past. When the government realizes that the expected and reasonable tax collection can only be obtained from an economy that works and not from an economy that is collapsing and where working citizens are really poor - that is what I think is the basic thing. And once again to VAT. The reduced value added tax, i.e. the tax applied to goods of basic life needs, which now amounts to 10 per cent and which the government intends to increase to 12 per cent, is already the highest in the Czech Republic from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. And I'm telling the SPD that we should have kept it at least for the basic things that people need to live. And I am convinced, unfortunately, thanks to our economy, that some next government will simply have to reduce VAT on the fundamentals. The fact that it is the highest in the Czech Republic from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe results from the annual study by CEE tax guide, Mazars, published recently on its website. This company compares the tax systems of 22 countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The study points out that the reduced VAT rates in the Czech Republic are already higher than in the surrounding countries. Poland applies reduced rates of 8 and 5 %, Slovakia 10 and 5 %, Austria 13 and 10 %, Germany applies one reduced rate of VAT of 7 %, in Hungary reduced rates of 18 and 5 %. That is why our state is now collecting historically the highest amount of funding in taxes. This year, in the first half of the year, he chose a total of CZK 644 billion without social security contributions. For example, this is 36 percent more than on average in the first half of 2016 and 2019, so you can say that you are successful relative to GDP and you can drag around from left to right here, who did it worse, but they will take the people who pay for it. And that's what needs to be said here. And again, all of this has to do with the profit and margin inflation I was talking about. The biggest companies in certain business segments, especially where there is no free competition and real market competition, are growing enormously, and the price for this is a record decline in living standards - and I repeat, we have to look at them here - worse than in the times of the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 or at the time of the covid. In fact, citizens' income is brutally reduced by long-term double-digit inflation, which is paradoxically good for you, whose burden clearly most affects ordinary workers and seniors, i.e. households and families, which in the finals will also pay the increased costs of companies caused by the policy of this five-police government. It's a vicious circle and perpetum mobile that have a common denominator. And that is the total economic dilettantism of this government, because I don't want to accuse you of deliberately damaging Czech citizens yet. But it doesn't matter in the finals, because unfortunately, the result is the same for us. We can always rely on the fact that in the economic area, but not only there, this five-calice government will choose the worst from the solutions offered and for the Czech state and its citizens, unfortunately, the least advantageous. That is why real wages fell most in our country last year from the OECD member countries, that is, from all the countries of the developed world, and that is indeed a sad first. And the government is silent about it, or, even worse, it maintains, deepens and increases this unfortunate trend with its decisions. On the contrary, what is completely lacking in its programme and its consolidation package is savings, state spending investigations, especially in the absolutely necessary and operational ones. Minister Stanjura juggled with numbers when introducing this package, how many billions he cuts off on various subsidies, but "the action has so far escaped," or even the various ministries began to claim that it was so simple or possible to limit or stop various subsidy programs, it probably will not, because of course, many of them have long-term contracts and can threaten arbitration. On the contrary, at the same time new grant titles are already being planned, for example at the Ministry of Environment it is about subsidies for repairs of old houses. At the Ministry of Industry and Trade again about introducing corporate subsidies for the acquisition of electric cars. Green Deal's been writing into all our ministries. Pay up! There's literally no reason left to stand on that. Of course, the insane Green Deal measures in the European Union are the root of all of this. In relation to the conceptuality and predictability of government policy, one could say that the right often does not know what the left is doing, but given the political coloration of this government and the five governmental parties, we must clarify this and state that one left almost never knows what the left is doing until the fifth left. But it's just a bonmot. [[12.30 hours]] But I must say - in your defense, Minister - in the Green Deal system of the European Union, the Green Deal, the directives, redistribution and regulation, you are tied up in such a way that it is really very difficult to succeed in this system, to succeed economically and you do not have it easy. But like I said, we're both different in what way we'd be able to improve, how we'd use our way and how we'd get to it. The same can be said of the planned budget for next year. After approving the consolidation package, it seemed for a while that the government would be preparing a budget for 2024 with a deficit of CZK 210 billion, which was a clear decline against the original plan, and I commend it. Then new figures came about this year's management of the state by this June and the Ministry of Finance sent a draft budget with a deficit of 235 billion to the commentary procedure. What happened? So that the government finally corrects the deficit dimension to 270 billion. So there won't be any reduction for 2024, or are you really going to use it to further raise taxes to save money? I'm still waiting for the expenses to stop the rising spending of the state. And what's next? You can't be serious! That's not the way to go. What about the expenditure framework for the years 2024-2026 approved by the government, with which the National Budget Board expressed its deep disagreement due to their non-compliance with the consolidation package as well as the first version of next year's budget. And the National Budget Board is your advisory body. What's that supposed to mean? And now I'm not just talking about the content and the unacceptable high-end deficit or state budget deficits, but about the fact that the Treasury can't handle its basic work at all, that it literally doesn't know which one is beating. It really hasn't been here yet. On the one hand, the government is pretending to have savings that it does not even specify, does not make legislative proposals and does not actually implement, and on the other hand, it is launching new subsidy programmes that it is still borrowing abroad in secret outside the Budget Act. There's barely anything to say! Two thirds of the consolidation package and one hundred percent of the content of today's government proposal are focused on revenue from the budget, i.e. translating money from citizens' pockets. You're just gonna throw the whole responsibility for the deficits on people! Guys, pay up, and we're gonna cash in here and pay for deficits, at least part of the state budget deficits. The economic environment of the country will make it worse, the economy will, as a result, slow further and more strongly. And even tax collection will not be what the government is counting on today, which has happened to it several times before, and the standard of living will fall even more. Where are you gonna get those social security benefits? I'm saying that the state budget isn't inflatable if you don't deal with the causes, but only the consequences and as consequences you're going to give welfare, so you're going to fall before people think you are. However, it can be said that, to the extent of citizens' intervention, this government is only perversely fair, with quotes, because the decline in standard of living will affect all social and demographic groups - entrepreneurs, working on agreements, employees, employers, pensioners, property owners, just all of them. When I take note of the government's package and follow the pseudoeconomic policy, one statement by Ronaldo Reagan is still coming to mind, and it is, I quote, "This government's view of the economy can be summed up in a few short sentences. If anything moves, we'll get it. If it keeps moving, we'll regulate it. And if it doesn't move anymore, we'll subsidize it." End of quote. In the Czech Republic, we are long past the point where tax increases automatically linearly increase tax revenue, long and far beyond the famous turning point, beyond the peak of Lafferův's curve, which expresses effective taxation. This is true for all types of taxes, including excise duties, which are also expected to increase in this tax package, and where the price increase of tobacco products will not lead to an increase in tax collection and revenue, but rather to a decrease in it, as well as an increase in imports of tobacco products from Poland and further expansion of the illegal black market in this area. I'm being clear here. You apologize for some vice tax, but the collection will fall, and people will simply go to Poland for cigarettes, where even because they have lower excise taxes, or even though they have lower excise taxes, so they will grow their tax return on tobacco VAT, for example, because they will sell twice as much because Čech will buy cigarettes in Poland. And there will be what I thought would never be again. They're just gonna smuggle it, they're gonna smuggle cigarettes, they're gonna smuggle it, they're gonna create a gray and black economy, and nobody's gonna get anything out of it. But that is the economic alphabet, and yet the government has decided to squeeze in higher taxes on people with other firearms, which literally throws away to support the unproductive activities of political non-profit organizations, to support foreign states, and mostly to subsidising speculative business linked to the European Union's green policy, which is burying us economically alive. It's good to finish by repeating it. So you're increasing corporate tax, which is going to be the highest of the surrounding countries. It's probably not exactly a measure to motivate companies to come to the Czech Republic, to do business here and to tax them. Do you increase the social contributions to businessmen by 60 percent? This will be for many of them, especially for those smaller and rural, the famous last nail in the coffin of their business. In particular, when you increase other taxes key to their business as a bonus, such as VAT on selected commodities and services, excise duty or real estate tax. For another, you reintroduce sickness insurance for employees, which is the form and content of the classic tax, new tax and other tax of work. A two-member household with an average income will cost CZK 6,000 a year. So that people know what to prepare for in your submission. At the same time, you do not intend to start paying sick as a state instead of employers, even if this is how you get new billion-dollar additional budget revenues. You are increasing property tax, and you are probably silent from innate modesty about the fact that this tax is also expected to increase by the current inflation rate in the future every year. So please, the fact that they tax you apartments and houses by almost 100 percent is not the end, that's the beginning. That's a start! So the real estate taxes are gonna go up. They will grow every year because this government also introduces an inflation clause. So pensioners can't have inflation in the form of pension valorisation compensated, but you're gonna put it on the property tax. That's principle! By abolishing family tax discounts, you're attacking working families with the smallest children and endangering future birth rates, and you're threatening pension reform, and you're actually fulfilling the fact that when these kids retire today, you'll have nothing left to give them. And by a non-systemic VAT chaos, where you significantly increase its reduced rate and completely compensate people for it, and you transfer a number of commodities to 11 percentage points higher basic rates, rekindle the spirit of inflation, and go hand-to-hand with some monopolies, oligopolyes, cartels, multinational corporations. As a result, today's part of the so-called The consolidation package will not have nearly as positive an effect on public finances as it is presented today, but, on the contrary, the effect will be opposite and negative, and its possible approval will lead to a further reduction in the standard of living of Czech citizens and will cut even further and reduce the growth of the Czech economy, i.e. will deepen its decline. For this proposal, including an explanatory report of over 700 pages, it is a really trivial result! [[12.40 hours]] It is also - and let us not forget this - the absolutely unnecessary work of hundreds of government officials and hundreds of hours of time, millions of crowns invested in it, which would be worth giving better to the Czech Republic and its citizens, more necessary and important activities and measures. It would be much better and cheaper if you didn't do anything if you didn't submit a consolidation package and left tax legislation in the state in which it is today and focused on spending the state budget when you can't or don't want to improve it to serve the Czech state and its citizens, their prosperity and the decent level of those who work are working honestly. If what you're presenting today goes through, it's gonna get worse. And our duty is to explain why and warn people about it. And that's why we're standing here today, and that's why we're debating it so people know what's coming. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u151	We now have one factual remark by Mrs Peštová. Before he gets to the counter, I'll load up a few apologies. Mr Horák Jiří apologises from 13:15 to 17:00 for personal reasons, Mrs Olšáková Eliška from 17:30 to 21:00 for work reasons, Mrs Zajíčková from 14:30 to 15:00 for health reasons and for members of the Government, Prime Minister Fiala from 11.15 to 13:00 for work reasons. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u152	Thank you. I tried to press my button there quickly, but unfortunately it jumped on Mr. Fiala's contribution. I wanted to respond to Minister Stanjura. Minister Stanjura has complained or asked us to be here within 12 hours, since we have the factual notes. I merely wanted to remind him that the Constitution says that the government is responsible for Parliament. I don't have to tell you that's Article 68, par. 1. So you have to sit here, not sit here and beg or ask us, or -- you said it like it was quite threatening -- to be here. All I'm saying is that you guys put that kind of charge in here... You're changing over 60 laws. Over 60 laws. You put it in the interreort for five days. Glory be to bůh, you put it in all the place you could have put it, but the five days were... It was so gallows-like that, in my nature, when I read the essential comments, it couldn't be dealt with, you couldn't. That's why you went with 218 crucial comments unfinished. So 218. I didn't dare. I was 5 and I had my stomach tucked down when I went to the Government Legislative Council. But you went around it, you didn't even come to the Government's Legislative Council in essence, you forgot some board of administrative law, financial law, labour law, social affairs, private law, RIA, you left all that out because you set up a special ad hoc committee of the Government Legislative Council that you set up. I don't know who was part of it, but in any case, you didn't go to plenary again. So you went to the Prime Minister's position, which is Minister Šalomoun. So you guys went over everything you could bypass. Well, you can't be surprised that the discussion here is essential, that there are a lot of factual remarks. [[President: Time, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u153	Thank you. We are going back to the debate. Mr Štolpa will appear, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. I'm just reminding you that at 1 p.m., we're gonna call a break according to the club president's arrangement. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u154	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the five-calice government has presented its consolidation package to the House, and I am not afraid to look the truth in the eye, it is only a tax package. The various aspects of this package have been discussed and will certainly still be discussed by my colleagues, I would like to focus and speak against the government's proposal to increase property tax, submitted by Prime Minister Fiala and Finance Minister Stanjura. I understand that our countries are facing financial challenges, but I do not agree with this particular proposal as an appropriate solution. In the search for resources to finance government spending, an increase in property tax is considered an easy and fast solution. The beneficiaries of the increase state that the owners who have the means to own the property also have the funds to cover these costs. However, this idea is unfair and distorted. As we see in our country, property ownership is not just for the rich, how anyone might object or perhaps try to convince us. Property ownership is a universal goal for many Čech from young families who want a stable home for their children, to older citizens who have saved up for their own apartment or house during the years of their work. In our Republic, the situation is different from most European countries, with almost 80 percent of our population living in their own homes. After 1989, people in Czechoslovakia and later the Czech Republic, who were long-term restricted to the possibility of owning housing, began to try to acquire their own property. This resulted in a large privatization of housing funds and an increase in ownership housing in our country. Many Čech have also decided to own an apartment or a house for financial advantages. Owners have control over their property and do not have to pay rent, which is economically advantageous for the long term. In addition, they have the possibility to use mortgage loans and benefits associated with tax relief for property owners. Another factor is that housing ownership is seen by many Čech as an important symbol of success and stability. Traditional values and psychological aspects thus also play a role in deciding on their own housing. People often want to have their own home that they can adapt to their needs and tastes. It is also true that rental of flats not only in the Czech Republic is associated with some uncertainty. The landlords have the possibility to increase the rent, terminate the lease or make other changes that may undermine the tenant's stability. Many people, therefore, not only for these reasons, prefer to own an apartment or a house because it gives them greater security and control over their housing. All of this means that the proposal to double the real estate tax would affect the vast majority of Czech households. This is not a question that should be considered marginal or negligible. This is a question that will touch the lives of almost all the citizens of our country. It is also important to stress that we have a major problem with real estate prices in the Czech Republic for a long time, with construction and we are really in the middle of a housing crisis as a country. Real estate prices have grown significantly faster in the last decade than wages. We need an average of 15 annual revenues to buy an apartment, which is the most of all European Union countries. The fundamental principle of this government's housing policy, when it no longer has a plan to help people with flats, should be - doing nothing that would make housing availability even worse. This step in the form of raising real estate taxes is going in the opposite direction. And what will result from the increase in property tax? This is not only the amount of costs for property owners. This tax increase will be reflected in housing costs for all, including tenants. I repeat once again and stress that this economic nonsense from the head of Treasury Secretary Stanjury really touches every citizen. The government argues that the increase in real estate tax is only by hundreds of crowns in quotation marks. This argument is misleading. Yes, in some locations there may be an increase of several hundred crowns, but there are also locations where it will be significantly more. We must take into account that any increase in property tax has an impact on the overall tax burden on our citizens. Let us remember that we are at a time when the Czech Republic is recording the biggest decline in real wages in its history and at the same time the biggest decline in all OECD countries. To increase real estate tax in this context is completely unacceptable in my view. Property owners now facing higher taxes will be forced to pass on these costs to their tenants. This means higher rents for people who can barely pay their bills, which means less money in the pockets of our citizens, less money that they can spend in our economy, and, ultimately, less jobs. The government claims that an increase in real estate tax is a way to strike a balance between revenue and expenditure from the state. But I ask, why isn't the government trying to save and reduce their spending instead of raising taxes? Would it not be fairer and more effective to take measures to reduce public waste? [[12.50 hours]] Property owners in the Czech Republic are not responsible for the inability of the government of Petr Fiala, they are not responsible for the inability of the Minister of Finance Stanjura, who cannot and cannot manage the funds entrusted. Everyone just a little bit economically literate can't support this government tax package. For my part, I'm definitely against it. If the government is not on the side of the citizens, there must be opposition on their side in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u155	Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will now speak with a factual remark. [[Call from the diaper: Application!]] At the same time it is also logged in, so it can continue after a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm in a very difficult situation right now, because it's ten minutes in one hour, and I'm sure my speech will be longer than ten minutes. And since my colleague, Mr. Štolpa, was talking about real estate tax here, and I think - and I don't think the Minister of Finance likes it either - when someone in some way... [[He's turning around.]] I'm having a moment right now, okay? - so if anyone enters that speech, I would, Minister, because I have registered everywhere in the media, that is, the real estate tax will remain to cities and municipalities, but the important thing should be said is that the tax of property will increase by 100% to citizens. [[He's turning back.]] That's just the fact that it is. And I wonder, because at the meeting was Chairman of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, he of course is also František Lukl Deputy in the South Moravian Region for STAN, Eliška Olšáková is the chair of the Association, here for STAN, and they went with you to agree that it would therefore remain to cities and municipalities and that they would eventually reduce their budgetary determination of taxes. [[local authorities?]] I know they're the particular partners to you, but I, when I'm talking to the other mayors and mayors, they're - and I'm looking at it that, in a way, the mayors might lose even more money. So I wanted to ask if you already have any construction, what taxes, or whether it's going to be VAT, which is going to be reduced, or the income tax of natural, legal, because, of course, there's going to be a 2% increase in law, which wasn't going to go to cities and municipalities. I apologize for using these nine minutes now, if you're not upset, but I think maybe this thing -- and even though Alena Schillerová was performing, she clearly said that real estate tax is bothering all citizens, but I want to say one important thing that even if you in the media get off and say -- property tax stays with cities and municipalities -- so you have to add -- but the citizens will pay a hundred percent more. And that's just the fact that it is. And so I am with what František Lukl and Mrs Olšáková (?), I don't agree very much as the former mayor, because those citizens will think that the real estate tax is going to cost the mayor and the mayor a hundred percent. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u157	Thank you. And with a point of fact, the Minister of Finance is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u158	I have dealt with the delegation of the Union of Towns and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities, I do not select a delegation and it is a matter of members and those who choose their leadership. And I would have met that delegation, whether it was elected and led by anyone - politically, either from any side or independent and so on. I have received a proposal from both of these organizations, which says that what is proposed in the consolidation package, a recovery package, so that the volume of property tax goes to the municipalities, with the fact that - to make it budgetaryly neutral - it is replaced by a reduction in the share of shared taxes. And I didn't have the authority, nor the authority to agree. I promised to discuss it within the government coalition. And those negotiations will begin, and I expect it to end sometime before the second reading. First of all. Secondly, it's important in this debate if... because the increase in the recovery package isn't 100%, it's not 100%, it's about nine billion to 12.6. So anyway, in the next round of negotiations, I'm going to ask if the volume of this shift is going to be nine or 12.6, which is 100%. If it were 12.6, that would actually be a hundred percent increase. If it was nine, I don't know if it was 0.78 or 0.8, it would increase the basic coefficient. [[Are you gonna do the math?]] The question that I have long been calling attention to by the representatives of these organizations is that tax administration costs CZK 1.2 billion. That means today it's not the yield for the state of zero, but -1.2 billion. I think it's fair to talk about it, because it's quite effective, in the sense that there are no big underpayments. [[The administration?]] And of course the state would like to have zero, so it will tell the cities, the municipalities - choose for yourself. I will not suggest it, I do not think it would be a happy step, but I think it is legitimate to have this amount that the state stands for - and it does not matter who the minister is, it is about CZK 1.2 billion, it does not even have to do with the amount of tax collected, because if some municipalities or more municipalities increase the coefficient, so the selection is logically higher, but of course the costs remain the same. That time to use the tax should be the first digitized tax with a pre-filled tax return. [[Can they?]] [[Real estate?]] If all is well, at the beginning of 2026, that is, the 2025 tax return should already be pre-filled for all taxpayers, because if any of you have filed this return sometime in recent months or years, it is certainly worse than filling out the personal income tax. It is certainly more demanding because of how it is quite complexly designed, you need to find out the type of land, a generally binding decree that regulates it and so on. This is the proposal of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. At the same time, I say that yesterday, after negotiations with the Regional Association, with their leadership, I will present to the debate in the government coalition a proposal from the Regional Association to change the RUD for the regions... but this would relate to a change in criteria or new criteria and so on. [[Am I?]] I said the same thing - when the RUD is open, there is no reason not to discuss it, but even in the case of cities and municipalities, even in the case of regions, of course, the Minister of Finance cannot conclude any political agreement. We have explained what is going on, so I am able to explain to my government colleagues what is involved in this proposal, and we will conduct those negotiations, I would say, in the next six weeks and before reading the second, it will be clear whether such an amendment, which corresponds to these proposals, will be adopted by someone from the government coalition and presented to us as the Chamber of Deputies during the second reading and for a decision at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u159	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is still reporting with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u160	Thank you very much, Minister. I just want to ask - how can you make it budget neutral? I don't think there's any way to prove it, because - in the case of real estate tax, I suppose, if you agree, but I haven't understood yet, because if the basic coefficient goes up to double, the basic coefficient, then cities and municipalities can go up to five times. A lot of people use it. That means if someone paid a thousand today, they're gonna pay $2,000, okay? You're counting on a hundred percent increase in real estate tax going into your budget of CZK 10 billion, okay? Cca. Okay. And now that we always have the amount of real estate tax - in quotation marks - clear - yes, the municipalities can raise it, but I don't count on it - but tell me, how will you base your budget on taxes? You don't even know what the development of VAT, corporate tax, physical tax will be. This means that municipalities and cities, in my opinion, can lose much more money and take on the fact that people will say that mayors and mayors have increased property tax by 100%. So I don't understand how the chairman of the Union of Towns and Communities and the chair of the Association of Local Authorities could have negotiated this. I don't think that's a good proposition for mayors and mayors. So thank you for the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u161	Yes, the Minister's point of order will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u162	We have two minutes. I described it. I've received a motion, and now we're going to discuss it. I'm not the one who should defend the proposal, explain and convince someone that it's right. How do you make it simple? You take the amount and you convert the coefficients as it was done at any time. [[always?]] When the personal income tax went down, so what is going to be the blackout, we're the percentage. [[Guess?]] [[unintelligible]] Of course, today the collections are much higher than the estimates in 2020 - yes, that is - for the benefit of the municipalities. But there's no other way. It can't be fixed and recounted every year. [[13.00 hours]] So if we were to agree to this, because if there's no consensus, it's going to stay the way it's designed. I'm saying it's not an initiative by the government or the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance. We'll be able to recount it if there's a political agreement. But I'm saying, I'm not defending it, that's not my proposal. I'll just discuss it with my government colleagues. And if we agree on that, or if one of the opposition has presented something like this, then we will discuss it in the Chamber of Deputies at second and third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u163	Thank you. And one more point of fact, Madame, is to report, but I feel like I'm gonna have to interrupt you at 1:00 p.m. for a break. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u164	Thank you very much again. It's one minute to one. So, Minister, could you not answer me and tell me - the change in the RUD regions, what new criteria? Unless it's classified. I think that other regional representatives... Well, unfortunately. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u165	Well, I'm sorry to interrupt, it's 13 o'clock. I suggest you say it in the lobby with the Minister. It's 1:00 p.m., according to the club agreement, I'm interrupting and declaring lunch break until 2:30 p.m. At 14.30 we will meet again here in the Chamber of Deputies in the Chamber of Deputies. Enjoy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies this afternoon. And now we will continue the interrupted general debate which we are leading to the Parliament's press of 488. Mrs Eva Fialová and Mr Radek Vondráček are now applying for the floor, but I see President Benda's point of view. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u167	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we're doing quite well, but we still have 39 entries left, where yesterday at noon there were 41 of them, if I'm not mistaken, or a number like this. Therefore, I propose that we extend today's negotiations for nineteen and twenty-one hours and notice, I do not propose for twenty-four, I consider it a reasonable solution that we have chosen yesterday, for all Members and employees, to be finished around midnight and to continue the next morning. I propose an extension of the negotiations on behalf of all coalition clubs, to state that we should take action today and vote on a territorial basis even after nineteenth and twenty-first hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u168	Thank you, it's clear. I call on a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on the negotiations and on the meritorial vote after nineteen and twenty-one hours. And, yes, of course, I'll ask everyone, because I'm signing you all out now, so you can re-enlist with your registration cards. And since the enrollment numbers are already dropping, I will just repeat that we will now proceed to the vote in order to act today and vote after nineteenth and twenty-first hours. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote with order number 18 105 Members and Members were registered for 100 against 0. I therefore note that today we will also vote after nineteen and twenty-one hours. And before we proceed to Mrs Eva Fialová's application, I will make an apology. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes from 14.30 pm for work reasons, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová from 14.30 to 17.00 pm for health reasons and Minister Jana Černochová from 13.00 pm for work reasons. Now there is room for Mrs Eva Fialová, who I do not see presently present in the hall. So he is losing order, and we can proceed to the next enrollment, which is Mr Radek Vondráček. Mrs Lenka Dražilová will also be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am one of those Members who, in the course of the debate, have decided in some way to modify and change their original intended speech, taking into account the development of the debate, the conflicts that took place here last night and this morning. Part of the subject has been exhausted. That's why I'd stick to that rule of three. I will have three areas that I would like to talk about, and I will actually ask three basic questions: why, who and what? And the three areas that are concerned because I am an elected representative of citizens, so I would like to speak here for groups that I do not think have been heard in the preparation of this new legislation on the consolidation of public budgets, and that is, firstly, justice, second, beekeepers and third, winemakers, so that we have it simple and clear. So let's start with the justice. I have here the opinion of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic on part 16 of the regulation, which refers to the amendment of the Act on salaries and other obligations relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of the state authority and of certain state bodies and judges and Members of the European Parliament. These comments from the Supreme Court are as follows. According to the Supreme Court's conviction, the proposed regulation contradicts the constitutional order, as the Constitutional Court repeatedly interpreted it in connection with the interventions in the salaries of judges, and should not be accepted for this reason. Period. This is a reminder of the Supreme Court. I could basically end with this, because that is all that is said, but let me base this argument on further arguments in this debate. Last permanent change of salary base made by Act No.587/2020 Coll. it was justified by the need to establish a salary base on a quantity that is not in the hands of political power, i.e. to set up some pay machine, into which it will no longer be accidentally intervened. Contrary to this question, the political representation is presented by further restrictions on judicial salaries. According to settled case-law of the Constitutional Court, for example, findings 28/13 and 11/02, it is claimed, inter alia, that the salaries of judges in a broad sense are to be a stable, indecisive variable, not a moving factor with which they calculate this or that group of governments, for example, because they appear to be too high in comparison with the salaries of civil servants or in comparison with another professional group, with a long-term increase in the salary of a judge which should not be lower than the similar trend with regard to the average remuneration in the public sector. Contrary to the constitutional maximum proposal cited, it reduces this quantity permanently, and I would remind you, permanently, without prejudice to any material reasons for such a step. Again best refer to the constitutional finding. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 53. And without there being comparable wage restrictions in relation to other servants of the State, with the exception of persons whose salary is governed by or derived from Law 236/1995, the fact that despite the rephrased appeal of the Constitutional Court, the proposal was not dealt with in a real way with the representatives of the judiciary. Here for everyone who has already performed here, many have said so too. Of course, five days of commentary proceedings lead to a total failure of communication with the individual addressees of the legal standard. I can therefore say that the real government coalition and government have failed to communicate with justice, and this has not been communicated. The view is quite clear, there is actually no further discussion. If you call this proposal unconstitutional, then how do you want to settle this comment? The Supreme Court points out that the limits for restrictions on the salaries of judges are also governed by the laws of the European Union. [[14.40 hours]] This is, for example, the decision of the European Court C 64/16 and their respect may be reviewed by the Court of Justice. In view of the very short deadline for comments, the Supreme Court cannot provide a deeper analysis of the material under consideration. However, for the sake of clarity, it can be concluded that, if political representation is too effective and legislative, respect constitutional order, as defined by the Constitutional Court, for example, in the already mentioned finding, the file mark 28/13. A mere reading of this finding should lead the petitioner to abandon the intention to intervene again in the post of judges. We see this point as essential. End of quote by the Supreme Court. You all know the old story. For over a year now, Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials has been here. It was all about the salaries of constitutional officials. But in order not to be what Andrej Babiš suggested, to make it look a little different, he comes up with another coefficient, with another base for calculation, to make it a little bit different. But in fact, it means slowing down the growth or wage freeze not only for Members and Senators, but also for judges, despite the fact that there has been a gentleman's agreement in the past that it will no longer touch these salaries. You remember that under Secretary Helena Válková there was some sort of settlement and that the judges gave up their claims, which I will now not tell you exactly how much they were moving, but they simply did not ask for a settlement in their income, with the fact that this is the last time this material is being dealt with and discussed. And it's been a year, and it's on the table again, and we have to deal with it again. I consider it completely unnecessary, I consider it inappropriate to involve it here in the consolidation of public budgets and, of course, I say here with all the seriousness of the microphone, that in the end we will eventually receive a review by the Constitutional Court and that in the end the funds will very likely have to be aligned. So what are we up to now? Just a little bit of improvement to make the deficit look better this year and the flood will come after us. I don't think that's really how the petitioner should proceed. It's also a reason, and I'm saying this in advance, why I'm going to propose at the right time that this press be ordered to the constitutionally-legal committee as well. I do not have the ambition of the Constitutional and Legal Committee to discuss all aspects of the tax package, but please, this is a matter which really belongs materially to the Constitutional and Legal Committee and I hope that my proposal will be supported. Then we have justice. Secondly, we have beekeepers here. It has already been said here in the course of a debate from several mouths. The package proposes the unification of the limits for the exemption of other income in Section 10 of the Income Tax Act to 50,000 and the abolition of the adjustment of bee-keeping income § 10 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Income Tax Act. When you talk to beekeepers, they usually tell you one sentence: it's really not a good idea. Because the area is so specific, a large part of beekeepers, and it's some 65,000 registered beekeepers, and I'm one of them, and I'm saying right here, I don't have a conflict of interest, I have nine hives, so it's definitely not gonna apply to me, and I'm definitely not making any money by beekeepers, but it's clear to everyone that ultimately it can only lead to the fact that the bees won't report, that this could make the disease situation worse, that they'll be treated in any way, they'll be treated with their own help. It's not a happy idea at all. You know that the Czech Republic is a beekeeper power. We may have the greatest density of hives not only in Europe, but in the world that it is not at all easy to manage. It's always said with exaggeration: your entire economy is flying somewhere in the air. Diseases can come, bad weather can come that you can't control. And maybe just this spring, a lot of bees really died, and the situation is not easy. And now here's what's coming. Just in some refreshment, I would like to tell you that already on April 8, 1775 Marie Terezie issued her beekeeper's patent for Lower Austria and Moravia, in which, wait, I will find it, in which she specifically wrote that: "The beekeeping is freed from all tithes, where so far the estate has not been chosen and this benefit has not been compensated. [[Mr Vondráček is looking for the relevant text]] However, if any of the rulership of the two countries mentioned with this pleasure has actually been registered in the rectificatorium, it is to be reported to the relevant government that after the given charity under this Regulation the enjoyment should be written off or replaced in any other way, if it had not decided itself that it would renounce this tiny proceeds from the love of the universal good." So I say out of love for the common good that beekeeping, and we have a lot of beekeepers here, it's really not just about earning, it's just a matter that has a big impact on the landscape, on the economy at all. We all know that where there are bees, there are better farmers, the yields, and I have some comments from the Bee Association, which I will read to you, are then relatively ridiculous. It would mean a huge administrative burden if some 50,000 beekeepers were to file a tax return and then pay a tax of CZK 15 hundred, so if it really makes sense. I'm saying one third of beekeepers are retired. If they had to run some paperwork, they'd just wrap it up and quit. And I don't have to tell anybody here that this beekeeping thing is really happening, if we shift like this, and if there's a decline in the colony, we're all gonna feel it. We'll feel it on agricultural production, forest production, just about everything. I'm just quoting a little bit from the Bee Association statement. They say that beekeeping in the Czech Republic is based on interest beekeepers and their breeding. According to official data of the Czech Moravian Breeders Union, which keeps the central register of hives, there are 65,000 bee breeders in the Czech Republic. Our legislation does not regulate the definition of an interest beekeeper with reference to the number of hives, in which we follow the European Union rule, which calls the commercial beekeeper the breeder, which he keeps more than 150 beekeepers. In our country, there are 150 such breeders. The subsidies to these breeders are subject to specific characteristics, regardless of whether they are agricultural entrepreneurs or not. If a beekeeper is a professional beekeeper, he is registered as an agricultural businessman under the Agriculture Act and this is not linked to the number of beekeepers kept but to the will of the breeder to make a living. All others are beekeepers of interest, selling their surpluses within other income. Therefore, beekeepers do not understand the claim that professional beekeepers make use of an exception to the fictitious amount of income and formally distribute beekeepers to family members. Beekeeping is a traditional social-benefit activity based on family tradition. Most of our new beekeepers are from the family environment in which this hobby inherits to work with bees son, grandson, today also daughter, granddaughter learned, to pass on the colonies. And there's something spreading from the Green Table of the Ministry that they're probably crooks. We feel here the rhetoric of some professional beekeepers who may have a problem with the market economy and blame small beekeepers. The Bee Association therefore protests against the accusation of the vast majority of honest beekeepers of fraud. Mr. Speaker, he's not here, I'd like to ask him for the greater good to follow up on Marie Terezie's traditions and not to tax beekeepers here, which has simply not happened here for hundreds of years. The patent was more or less valid until the beginning of the twentieth century. Why is this government coming up with this idea now? And I'm going back to my opening question: could the minister tell us who it was, who came up with it and where's the original idea why they're doing it? It doesn't bring anything from scratch, you're just trying to eliminate the godly activity of people who are close to nature and who certainly do not achieve any missile earnings. [[14.50 hours]] I took a glass of my own, just so you know, the bee lives 40 days in the summer, it flies around about a thousand flowers in that time and collects one teaspoon of honey, or it becomes the nectar it brings, one teaspoon of honey. Well, look at this drink... [[He's showing a glass of honey.]] ...how many teaspoons of honey are in it, how many bees have had to lay down their lives to make this glass, which I love to hand over to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, who is a translator who isn't here, I'll put it on his desk to take a look at the glass. And I beg you, and in a good way, this isn't that I want to go into any controversy or into conflict, but please, let's take a look at it and at second reading, we'll come up with an amendment to how to help these beekeepers. That's two. [[Let's hear it for yes. The Member shall place a glass of honey in a place reserved for the Minister of Finance.]] And the third one's for the vintners, that'll be the fastest. Wait, I'll find it. So in the framework of the government package, because whoever hasn't noticed it yet, the government wants to abolish the possibility of giving wine as a corporate tax-acceptable gift. But otherwise, he preserves these gifts. That means the state budget won't get anything, or I don't know about it. They're just forcing entrepreneurs not to buy wine for the purposes of some kind of gift. And I say, because I say it from experience, I always buy some Moravian wine for Christmas and I personally drive it to my good clients and wish them everything for the new year. In return, I get mostly Moravian wine from my clients, and that's just how it works with us, and it means improving the sale of the Moravian wines. I don't understand why we should buy Belgian pralines or golf balls instead of Moravian wine. Why can't we donate gifts that are traditional? The state won't gain anything. I'd just like to ask the Minister why it's here, in this package of consolidation of public budgets, how we can help it if I can't donate wine and I have to buy the pralines. One simple question. And I'm going back to who-- who's at that green table at the ministry thinking about who's so upset about those vintners! It wasn't that long ago that Minister Stanjura wanted to tax quiet wines. I thank my colleagues from the People's Party for explaining to their coalition partner that this is a complete nonsense, that winemakers are not just earners, but at the same time it also has an impact on the whole landscape, it's just some tradition, it's in us, it's not just some activity to make a profit. And again, those vintners are bothering somebody, and it's gonna have an impact on their turnover, on their income, because there's a whole series of examples that I've given you. Therefore, I would like to address here again the colleagues who are close to it, this issue, in some way, to arrange for the Minister's life..., sorry, the Minister of Finance, and to prepare an amendment at second reading, where I think we could adjust this absurd adjustment. Of course, I'd be happy to have the Minister when he'd be here if he could explain to me who thought of the purpose and what we were supposed to get. In my opinion, nothing at all, it's only directed against Moravian winemakers, for whom it could mean a significant loss of their income. So much for my tax package. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u170	Thank you. One more statement, Mr. Ambassador, you mentioned the constitutionally-legal committee, so just for your information, the commandment is already proposed as the next committee. And now I will read an apology in the meantime, namely Mr. Josef Bernard, who apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for work reasons, Jaroslav Bžoch, who apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for work reasons and Jan Hofmann, who apologizes from 19:00 for personal reasons. And we're getting to two real notes. Mr Josef Kott is registered with the first one. Ambassador, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u171	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to tell my honored colleague, by your means, how he said he had nine hives, so that it doesn't concern him. Well, it concerns you, my colleague, it concerns you, because there is only a limit of 50,000 crowns. And I can assure you that we are preparing an amendment so that those little beekeepers, who are some 80 percent and who have between one and 15 bees, are not affected. So we want a combination of the number of hives versus some limit, and I think that's how we treat those little beekeepers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u172	Thank you. Mr Michael Kohajda is reporting further in fact, and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u173	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say that I love bees and I eat honey every day. I would just like to draw technical attention to the fact that what my colleague Vondráček here said, by your means, Madam President, is not true, because this is only a technical change, the exemption at the same time is CZK 30,000, in order to simplify the administration, it is considered that the income of the taxpayer, who receives income from bees and for whom the number of bees does not exceed 60 units during the tax period, is CZK 500 per colony. If it exceeds, if this provision is deleted as proposed, according to paragraph 10 it still opposes revenue expenditure, that is, the net income under paragraph 10 is examined, the only limitation is that we cannot go into loss. On the contrary, the liberated amount rises from 30,000 to 50,000 crowns. That means, administratively, it may be more complicated than that, but it is more tax-effective. So I'm not entirely sure what you're up against when you think it's fiscally dubious, you're really broaching.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u174	Thank you. Please, through me. And now, Mrs Berenika Peštová will appear, Mr Jan Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u175	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I had already performed before the break with a factual remark about the speed of the nearly 60 laws that are currently being amended. We've had an hour and a half, and I'd quite like the minister to be here because he's a gesture minister, it's over 60 laws that change, so he should sit here and answer. He himself asked here if we would be here by 12. We'll be here by 12, we'll be happy to ask questions, but as honey, I really can't put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u176	I understand perfectly, we are communicating that the Minister should be present in a short time. Mr Jan Volný with the following factual point, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm an awful loser, I've studied high school farming and I've been at the Beekeeper Research Institute, I've been there for five years, I've even inseminated bees, and after 35 years, I've gone back to beekeeping, and hup, and I've already got taxpayers there. Please, I just want the question - the Minister is here now, what my colleague said, who thought of it, and I beg you, and I'm sure the Minister will have it, or his people will know for sure what financial plus impact it has on this republic, that it's worth dealing with. I would understand if Mr. Babiš were a beekeeper, I can see why it's being done, but now it's not clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u178	Thank you and Mr Radek Vondráček, then Mr Kohajda, is signed up with another de facto. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u179	Thank you for the floor. To my colleague, through Madam President, I will tell you from the position of the beekeeper. You said it exactly, with the legislative talk, but for the beekeeper, it means that if you have 60 hives in the Czech Republic, you don't have to deal with anything. You don't have to pay a profit tax, you just don't. You kind of make these bees the way they've been done for centuries, and now it means they're going to be paperworked, they're going to have some kind of office. You guys realize that's supposed to be the lump sum for the colony. But if I understand the law correctly, it's the beehouse, when it's good weather, when it's a sustenance, it produces a lot more than it counts flat-rately on the bee. And really, there are 150 beekeepers over 150 bees, otherwise everyone else is interested, they don't do business and they just live here in this regime. [[15.00 hours]] Maybe this is what it looks like for you, you're increasing from 30 to 50. But how are they gonna figure it out? They just won't report it. Who's gonna check out how many beehives there are? He'll only report 30 hives. But after the 20, how's he gonna treat it? I mean, he's gonna lose a little control of whether or not it's being treated well. There's a lot of practical questions that maybe from that green table in the Treasury Department, it looks like something should be taxed, that they're just leaking some money, but in real life, it's really not. So if I add to that the disasters, like sugar already costs twice as much, the drugs cost more, everything costs more. The beekeeper has to invest a lot of money into it. That's not what I said about the honey jar, that, of course, someone has to pick up the honey, somebody has to do it, somebody has to piss it off, somebody has to turn it into the jar and pay for the glass. How much of that beekeeper's work is there, I've completely lost it. I only said that for the bees. Mr. Secretary, it's your honey. It's on your desk. [[He's pointing to a glass of honey he brought to Minister Stanjure.]] Well, that's it for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u180	Thank you. In fact, Mr Michael Kohajda wants to respond further. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u181	Thank you. I have to say, the regime doesn't change. It's always been an income. What is now regulated in the Income Tax Act is only an administrative evaluation to simplify how much income per colony is. The income was always, always subject to the tax, always taxed under this law. As with other income, the limit for filing a tax return was applied to him. We don't have a condition here where you're obliged to file a tax return from the first crown of the other income. That's not here right now, and the change in that isn't. Nothing really changes. The limit is changing. The current liberation is CZK 30,000, now CZK 50,000 is proposed. 20,000 crowns more. That's the situation. Let's just stick to what's actually written in that law. I like bees, too. Feel free to ask whether all bees and their breeders in the Czech Republic should be exempt from income tax. That's a regular question. But all I'm saying is that the numbers that we have in the proposal right now, your interpretation is against what the facts of the proposal are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u182	Thank you. I beg you to address me through me. Mr Radek Vondráček is reporting again. I'll read an apology in the meantime. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes from 15 to 18 o'clock for personal reasons and Minister Marek Výborný from 19 to 22 o'clock for work reasons. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u183	Mr colleague, through Madam President, this is not my interpretation, this is the position of the Czech Beekeeper Union. You didn't talk to them at all, you didn't explain. I said that at the beginning of my speech, greatly shortened my speech because I was ready to read the statement. But given what we've been through in these two days of these debates, and sometimes we've turned to the state budget and somewhere else, I've reduced it. I'll give you that opinion right now. We won't have to worry about it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u184	Thank you. We will proceed to the next enrollment, which is Mrs Lenka Dražilová. Mr Petr Sadovský will then be ready. Madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u185	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I am actually almost sorry for the governments and ministers, because watching them catch themselves in their own trap could, of course, be fun, but it is not. Because what we're experiencing here right now is the bill for the election populism of the current government parties, not just for their voters, but unfortunately for all residents. Because the popularity of the government is falling very rapidly, you have a very difficult task ahead of you. You have to convince the citizens that what you do, you do well, and you actually save them. I made a note that the Prime Minister here this morning said that you were doing a life-saving operation and that the citizens had to spare you and that you didn't have to. In this context, it has already fallen, but I'd like to repeat that you sent a clear signal yesterday to all citizens that you decided to give $50 million, someone says $54 million to Michelin's fancy restaurant guide. I have read that in the first stage Michelin will analyse the overall quality of the gastronomic scene in the Czech Republic and then the inspectors will visit companies from a short selection and evaluate them according to the Michelin methodology. But I don't think it's the village pubs where the VAT on the draft beer will be raised. Vice-President Havlíček has already said that. We know we need to deal with this, we just want to take a fundamentally different path. One of the basic lessons of political marketing is - woe to the politician who believes in advertising slogans. That's probably what just happened to the government garrison. That's how long they talked about the collapse of the previous government's state finances until they believed it. If that were true and it really was the collapse of the state finances that our government was passing on, I wonder what they would call the current situation, when the pace of the state budget deficit is double that of the previous government. But actually, Mr Bernard here answered me, who said it was critical. What a mockery you will now be making to your Minister of Finance, who has presented complex tax changes to have a neutral impact on VAT according to his words. So in other words, we're sitting here just because we're going to make changes in the law that will have no impact on tax revenues. I know that both the Minister and the Prime Minister are making it easier by saying that they are clarifying the tax system with this change, simplifying the rules that they want a fair state. But frankly, given that the Ministry of Finance officials - as we have read - spent more than 10 days dealing only with whether coffee with milk is a food or a drink, it doesn't seem that way to me. Especially when the teams discussed, for the next 10 days, the VAT rate to which the lemon mineral is to be included, the rate to which the mint leaf or itself is to be included. You can argue that these are extreme examples, but I don't think they are. We have also heard debates here about the fact that newspapers have a higher VAT rate than erotic magazines and cooking magazines. The absurdity of the whole proposal then I consider the idea victory TOP 09, which has passed a zero rate on books. It's nothing against culture. But why, in the context of culture, do VAT books have zero and admission fees for an exhibition or concert are on the basis of the basic rate? I don't understand. There are more, in a way, comical regulations that we are going to discuss here. This, for example, is about limiting the purchase of service cars, which will not be able to newly become a VAT deduction of more than CZK 2 million. That, in my opinion, is a classic demonstration of a completely unnecessary order. Although Minister Stanjura explained it very well and logically here in plenary, now, of course, without approval, entrepreneurs know very well how to go about it. But it's something that citizens are very well listened to. At the beginning, I said that what we are discussing today is the result of the populism of the electoral campaign of the current government coalition. But in fact, I think it's even worse, because it's really kind of a mockery of most decent people. The electoral rhetoric was some in 2021, but by the end of 2022, the government claimed that taxes would not increase. In a country where, according to Ilona Švihlíková's economist, the state is estimated to come by CZK 300 to 500 billion only because of poor tax collection, the government comes with an increase in VAT on most basic goods that people simply cannot do without. [[15.10 hours]] Yes, the macro-economists may indeed view the proposed tax changes as neutral, but that is not the case with ordinary people. At least according to the first calculations. In other words, the government and its Members are once again making life more expensive for people. It's been dropped. For a family of four, it will have an estimated annual impact of around 45 to 50,000 crowns. In a situation when 55 percent of Čech are already having trouble getting paid. And especially because they are brutally affected by the biggest slump of real wages in the entire history of the Czech Republic. And also the biggest decline in real wages from all OECD countries. Not only in 2022, but also in the first quarter of 2023. This is, please, a specific result of your work, your disdain for people. I know you're going to want to say that it's not your fault that Russia is responsible for starting a war in Ukraine. But I'm saying they're excuses. Excuses of blaming someone else for your failures. To Russia, to Ukraine, to Babiš, what you have introduced, to the YES movement, it is now costing us more money, and I ask, who voted in favour? Who has often co-chaired these proposals here, whether it was educational, let it be paternal? And yesterday, Patrik Nacher said it right here. What would it be like if we approved everything you suggested in the covid? I would like to mention Poland. This is closer to the war geographically, it has also adopted a record number of migrants and also supports Ukraine. Nevertheless, the decline in real wages compared to the Czech Republic is virtually indistinguishable. And there are more countries like that. Instead of dealing with people and entrepreneurs here, we are dealing with changes in VAT, which will not bring a crown into the state register, and in themselves contain so many questionable arguments that they have become a laughingstock before they got here to discuss the House. As you say yourself, you will increase the range of items from 10 to 21 percent, so you will not save. And the reduction of food from 15 to 12 percent, also said here, most likely stays in the pockets of strings. But the items you're increasing - I'm not going to repeat them over and over again - everyone will feel them. And that's why I think it would be better to put the whole thing on ice and start focusing on topics that really make life easier for people and, above all, make it cheaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u186	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Sadovský, Mr Roman Kubíček, will then be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u187	Thank you, Madam President, colleagues. I've prepared a small contribution on our highways. This may not be about the Minister of Finance here, but rather the Minister of Transport, who unfortunately is not here. As we all know, our road signs will be increasing by 800 crowns, which means 1,500 to 2,300. Moreover, of course, there will be a new valuation scheme where current inflation will be reflected. By increasing the price to CZK 2,300, the motorway stamp is actually issued at the same price level as it is in neighbouring Austria. If we consider that this is a comparison of Mazars' study, which compares wages and tax systems with 22 countries in Central and Eastern Europe, we will find there that the highest average wage in Central Europe and Eastern Europe has, world, wonder, Austria, which is somewhere EUR 4,500. It's not even half in our country at the moment, but the road sign will be equally expensive. By the way and does the Czech driver really get the same quality highway as in Austria? In the Czech Republic there are approximately 1,300 kilometers of motorways, and in Austria it is 1,000 kilometers more. This means that we are losing significantly in relation to the price of the annual motorway stamp to the total number. In our country it's roughly or it'll be roughly 2.10 crowns. In Austria it is based on 1.10 crowns. And I don't think they've funded tunnels and some mountain sections. I understand that the state register needs to be settled, we need to settle the deficit, the recovery package, but is it necessary to do it in such a forceful way? I mean, can you be more sensitive? And given the highways we have, I think it would be acceptable by two, three hundred crowns. Or is that what the European Union once again agreed to? In 2022, the European Union dealt with the fact that it would be a good idea for individual states of the Union to introduce a one-day motorway stamp that did not actually work for us. The proposal has been approved by the European Parliament and the new directive will have to be adopted by all the countries of the European Union within two years. That means next year. This means that they must cancel the mandatory multi-day fees for the use of motorways for transit and must introduce a one-day motorway stamp.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u188	I'm sorry, colleague, it's just that there's a lot of noise and I'm really going to ask my colleagues to be considerate about the tape. This time it's in the left side of the hall. Thank you for your consideration to everyone here, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u189	They were beekeepers, so I guess that's okay. The only exception will be those States which will demonstrate that such introduction of a new charging would be financially disproportionate, taking into account the expected profits. And in our country, our minister didn't really make any exception or request. And he explained it this way: If we stayed with the sum of CZK 1,500, it would mean a significant reduction in the prices of monthly and ten-day stamps, and there would be a significant loss in withdrawals related to this and the problem of investment. It seems like an amazing explanation to me. And according to the rules of the directive, the Member States of the European Union are obliged, from March 2024, to comply with the obligation to set the prices of time charges by a mandatory ceiling which is calculated in proportion to the annual fee. The monthly stamp must therefore be up to 19 per cent of the annual fee, 10 to 12 per cent, and the daily stamp will be 9 per cent of the annual one. So we will have a more expensive stamp mainly because the European Union has ordered the introduction of cheaper monthly, ten-day and one-day stamps. It seems unfair to our drivers. It seems unfair to me that it's called a highway sign. And I admit that I'm a motorist, not looking for differences, whether it's compression-ignition or internal combustion engines or electric, but is it a highway sign or an environmental mark? In today's ratio, how many cars do you drive, so take that vehicles that are electric, hybrid, hydrogen are liberated from the highway sign. But why, if we're looking for money in the Treasury today? Or is it because the Department of Transport doesn't know how to collect fines well enough and efficiently from drivers who don't use road signs? And now I don't want to say that it would be the police's fault, because that's how it works for us, if you don't know that every tollgate will pick you up, they'll find out according to the license plate, if you have a toll stamp paid, of course the police and Customs vehicles have it, and they'll pass on information about whether you're paid. But the police have to physically stop you, and they have to fine you for not having a road sign. In today's digitalization, when you commit a misdemeanor and a fine comes home to you, is this really effective? Shouldn't the Ministry also focus on this page to make the collection of fines more effective? I think it's to think about the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, who are neither here, but I think this is the way the Minister should look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Kubíček will speak with the next speech, and Mrs Ivana Mádlová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u191	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Secretary - he just left - well, I'm gonna leave him with these questions. I will be interested to know why and what decisions have led to the inclusion of different commodities in different dépéháček. Because in the end, we actually get to have three rates. It's going to be zero, 12% and 21%. So here's where I'm going to ask some questions. The consolidation of public finances should be based mainly on savings in the state's expenditure and not in the form of tax increases. That's why I call it tax, not a consolidation package. And up to 21% of the rate, for example, hairdressing and barbers' services, draft beer, authors' and artists' services, collection, transport, landfill of municipal waste, repair of footwear, leather products, bicycles, cleaning work, fuel wood, newspapers. On the other hand, the planned reduction in VAT is proposed for food without drinks, medical aids, construction work for housing, children's car seats, funeral services, and vice versa the increase in VAT is proposed for medicines, gluten-free products, magazines, public transport, catering and accommodation services, aqueous and sewerage, heat, tickets to culture, theatre, concerts. Here, above all, the water and gushing, heat and fuel wood is such a paradox. We're here trying to help people overcome the energy crisis, we're doing some measures here, we're doing some ceilings, and then we're going to add the 2%. It's not insignificant. You've all read about electricity, heating and so on. So the 2% isn't a meaningless amount. It's not, it's not. So I'd like to know what the Minister, the clerks, or what anointed heads led to these things being directly at the highest rate. I'd really like to know about this. According to a recent study by Mazars, the Czech Republic has the highest rate of reduced value added tax compared to the surrounding Central European countries. We could call ourselves Poland, Austria, Germany, and so on, where basic things such as food, medicine, and such things belong. So we're actually going to cancel the reduced rate, we're going to cancel the 5%, we're going to move the 10% to 12 percent, and we're going to call it some kind of consolidation. On the contrary, this will lead to a reduction in consumption, and in the global forecast tax collection, it will probably not be so happy, because I only looked at the decline in consumption because of the energy crisis and the household will start saving. And if it hits them, the supposed selection, the increase may not be true at all. The reduced VAT rate is referred to as a measure to promote consumption in specific sectors and also serves to protect the basic needs of the population. I really don't understand. At a decline in real wages in the Czech Republic, where wages fall most throughout the OECD, we approach increasing these basic goods. For example, the impact on seniors, we've been taking some precautions here, you call it some kind of pension package and so on. And we're actually costing the elderly their meds today. They're the biggest drug users, and once again there's an increase, and once again it's going to hit their wallets, so actually this most vulnerable group is going to get it twice. We will reduce their pensions in some way and add additional costs to that. There's some assumption and calculation of how much patients' costs are actually going to increase. It seems that the insurance companies will pay about 1 billion extra, patients' costs will rise by 300 to 350 million in the case of free-market medicines, 250 million more in the amount of cash, hospitals will pay extra, because, as I said, the three rates have been generated, so there is no reported simplification of the system at two rates. We'd have to have that zero 21 or zero 10 and so on. And it's going to be very counterproductive in a way. For example, we discuss magazines and newspapers. There is no logic at all, because the magazines will be at a lower rate, the newspapers will be at a higher rate, what is a periodical will be distinguished by whether it will be published three times a week or four times a week, where it will happen. I don't think I'm getting any ideas. And even though the books have been placed in a zero rate, the books are going very slowly, it's quite a burden. I don't know if anyone's been buying books lately. I buy for my daughter very often and really like to give 500 to 1,000 crowns a book is no problem today. And if we talk about textbooks directly, those costs are higher, they're books for $1,500, for CZK 2,000, and so on. So the so-called secondary market works, and the students, if they have the textbooks, they sell them, that's logical. We who are older may have experienced it in universities, buying from older students. But there will be really no support in the global. Then there's this interesting thing that I've come across, and these are, for example, flowers. Did anyone notice that if you buy a flower plant in a pot, it's going to have a reduced rate, and if it cuts, it's going to have an increased rate? So, men, be careful, now save up, because when you're carrying a flower to your wife, consider buying her one that she can water, and then you can give it to her every year, you can always hide it for a while and then return it. So that's kind of interesting. And what's quite a thing, that's what they've been looking at me, and I think they've turned to all of you, so that's actually the rate for baby and mineral water. It's just so incomprehensible. There's nothing to replace it with. If you think it's coming from the tap water... I'm lucky that I'm from South Bohemia and I'm happy to drink water from the tap, it's not a problem, but I don't drink tap water here in Prague. I think you're gonna confirm it's a county district, a county county. And if you have to buy the mineral water, and if you have that little baby at home and you're cooking him food and drinks, he's gonna touch you again and you're in the most vulnerable group again, so please let someone explain to me why we touched those two most vulnerable groups, which means families with small children and pensioners. When I say, the generation that works, goes to work, has a job, she can handle it somehow, I understand that. But why does it affect exactly these two groups? It's just not my brain. It's got no logic. I guess if I was a wood lumberjack, I'd have to think about it, 'cause that's something you don't do in a global society. So I'd quite like someone to tell me how it was prepared, how it was chosen? Because I could imagine some groups of one or two three, where I would give basic food, necessity and so on. Maybe I'd put a zero there. Then I'd do something that wasn't necessary, but it's things I don't have to buy every day, I'd put ten there. And then I would give things of consumption that we don't need at all, or they're so-called luxury things, and there I would somehow figure it out, and I don't know, I'm gonna say a car or a TV, clearly as I understand it. But I just don't know if I can pronounce it now, but let's try it, ladies' aids, they're just things - sanitary women's aids. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Thank you, Madam President. I would really like the Minister to come forward and say who did it, with what logic, with what consistency, and how did they actually work out the resulting effect? Because it's been dropped a couple of times, it looks like it's been torn out, and I've been trying to make a summary of what we should be talking about. Well, here's what I'd like to know. I'd like an answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u192	Thank you very much. With another contribution, Mrs Ivana Mádlová will speak. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will be ready. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u193	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, in my contribution I would like to focus on two areas relating to health, prevention and hygiene. One of them is the transfer of gluten-free foods from 10% to 12% of the rate. These are foods that are essential for health. And I will not comment on this any further because my honourable colleague, Professor Adámková, will have a separate contribution to this. However, I see this as a big problem, because the food is really extremely expensive and it would certainly be worth looking at the VAT once more. [[15.30 hours]] I would like to pay more attention to the other issue, and here I would like to thank my colleague Roman Kubíček for actually mentioning this subject, namely women's hygiene needs. In the Czech Republic, the hygiene needs used by a woman during menstruation are classified at 21 VAT rates, i.e. basic and not reduced rates, such as medicines or medical aids, and, on the contrary, at the basic rate, with the hygiene needs of menses, jewelry, cigarettes or alcoholic beverages. Why these aids remain at the highest rate, government representatives were unable to answer. So here I would join my honored colleague Roman Kubíček, if the Minister could possibly answer that, because neither the House President could answer the questions of journalists in this regard, nor whether it is politically intertwined or impassable. In fact, the Czech Republic within the European Union is one of those countries that does not apply the directive, according to which these sanitary needs can be included in a reduced rate. We will therefore definitely propose an amendment concerning the conversion of these aids from 21% to 12% of the VAT rate, namely for the following items: sanitary inserts, tampons, menstrual panties and menstrual cups. Why? For one thing, it is a very bad symbol that the menstrual aids that a woman needs and are an essential part of her personal hygiene for most of her life are at the same rate as cigarettes or alcohol, and therefore are more of a luxury. The Czech Republic, with a reduction in the tax rate, can rank by the side of the southern states of the European Union, which even taxes sanitary needs to women at the tax rate in the order of units per cent. The reduced rate is also applied by Germany, the Netherlands, France or Slovakia. Ireland is then significantly progressive in this direction with a zero-percent VAT rate on these goods. It is true that they have introduced this before joining the European Community and therefore have an exception. It can be said with certainty that the reduction in the VAT rate will be a clear signal to Czech women that political representation does not perceive menstruation and menstrual poverty as taboo, and is ready to take measures that will not fundamentally burden the state budget, but move our country closer to the 21st century in the perception of many foreign partners. What are the other reasons? According to PAQ Research data, 13 percent of households lived in 2022, which actually have to count very, very much after the housing payment. They have 3,000 crowns left per person for the whole month, i.e. a hundred a day. And in the context of the economic crisis, there has also been an annual increase in the number of households that really count very and very much. So if 13 percent of households are left with such a low amount, of course, every expenditure for these hygienic needs is essentially an intervention in the family budget, they did not say that there are more women in the same family. And the arguments that the price of these sanitary aids will remain unchanged after the reduction in VAT, I think it has no logic, and we should not actually resign from this argument and we should move these sanitary aids to a lower rate. At the same time, she would like to remind us that menstruation is often not only linked to expenditure on women's hygiene needs, but there are other problems, mostly pain. This means that, in connection with this, it is often necessary to purchase pain-muffled analgesics and so on. Of course, if hygiene is not observed, this can lead to other health problems, infections, inflammations, and so on. So, as I was saying, we're going to make an amendment on this subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u194	Thank you very much. Mrs Romana Bělohlávková is also reporting with a point of fact. I'll do two apologies in the meantime. Mrs Lucie Šafránková apologizes from 15 to 19 o'clock for work reasons and Minister Marek Výborný from 14 to 15 o'clock for work reasons. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u195	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to assure my colleague, Mrs Mádlová, by means of you that we have noticed exactly these items that she has been talking about in the framework of the KDU-ČSL several weeks ago. So I can assure you that within the framework of internal coalition management, we are actually proposing the transfer of both infant water and baby diapers and women's sanitary aids to a reduced VAT rate, and we firmly believe that we will find understanding and support of all our coalition partners in the K15 negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u196	Thank you. With the response of Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u197	Thank you. I am very pleased to welcome this information, thank you for it, but I just have to say that it is a great pity that it has not been directly thought of, but that it must change again in the framework of some amendments, but nevertheless it is certainly for the benefit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u198	We are going back to the general debate on the duly registered ones. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, then Mr Kukla will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u199	Thank you. Madam President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to comment on the planned future increase in corporate tax from 19 to 21 percent. I believe that such a measure will have a negative impact on our economy and the business environment. The proposed increase in corporate tax will result in a negative effect on business and investment, both domestic and foreign, which will lead, in the medium and long term, to a reduction in economic growth and employment and a total loss of competitiveness in our country. The increase in tax will have significant negative consequences for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. At the same time, I believe that this increase will not have a significant impact on the increase in the revenue of the state budget, as the big ones will be even more optimized, which we can already see today on significantly lower expected windfall tax revenues, when the revenues from the banks will be almost zero and from ČEZ will be significantly lower than the original assumptions. Already windfall tax is proof that Lafferův's curve actually works, but with regard to the government package it is necessary to repeat it. So what is Lafferův's curve? It's named after American economist Arthur Laffer. It shows the hypothetical dependence of the total amount of taxes collected on the level of taxation. High taxes have a negative impact on economic growth because they weaken people's motivation for work performance, increase tax evasion and cause capital evasion. The curve is a description repeatedly in the history of the observed phenomenon, where tax increases have a negative return on the state from a certain point and an excessive tax increase does not increase tax revenues anymore, but, on the contrary, they cause a fall. Too high a tax rate puts too much pressure on taxpayers to ultimately cause the growth of a grey and black economy, along with a capital spill-over into less tax-bearing countries. Instead of increasing corporate tax, the government should focus on promoting business and growth, reducing bureaucracy and setting up a predictable business environment. In view of the above, I therefore believe that the proposed increase in corporate tax to 21 per cent is not an appropriate step and its possible approval will bring more negatives than positives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u200	Thank you. Mr Martin Kukla will now appear, Mr Lubomír Brož will prepare and Mr Pavel Růžička will apologize today from 19 o'clock for health reasons. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u201	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I will try to cut my performance a little short. I redesigned it, too, because there was a lot to be said here. When I looked into the consolidation package, it contained some 723 pages that I gradually chewed through, and I found that it wasn't really a consolidation package, but it's a tax package that just takes people's money. [[15.40 hours]] You, as a government, are hiding it behind some kind of consolidation, but let's face it, it's a simple tax increase and the abolition of tax exemptions. When we look at the tax exemptions that helped people, you cancel a discount on a husband or wife raising a child only within three years. I know from my own practice when I was working at the firm, we were quite a young team, so I know that many of my colleagues had just used this tax exemption if they had more children. Next thing you know, it's kindergarten. We know that the last preschool year is an obligation to go to kindergarten, so that's not where kindergarten fees are paid, but those younger children have been paying kindergarten fees since they were two years old. Those young families took advantage of it when they wanted to go to work, and it was thanks to this relief that they relieved themselves of their taxes and you took away their tax relief and thus increased their taxes. Next thing you know, there's a discount on the student, there's been a lot of talk about that. It's a cancellation for the students, not just for the tight group, but for everyone who makes more than 200 grand, so they're just not going to deduct it and they're going to have a basic discount on the taxpayer, and they're not going to have another discount that you're canceling. Next thing you know, non-cash benefits from employees. I know that mostly larger employers used it, gave employees benefits that didn't get paid, and those employees used them, went sports, bought drugs, and so on. All of this is falling because of your actions. Next thing you know, deductions are for membership contributions and for the payment of a test verifying the results of further education. A lot has been said about beekeepers here, I'll say it from practice. I'm a beekeeper, our family manages about 30 hives. It's not for the reception, it's for the hobby. I started it about seven years ago, and gradually, as the departments were done, they swarmed, so we were on some number of 30 hives. It's a hobby, but it's also a job. It's hard work. When we look at how many beekeepers we have, we have roughly 56,000 beekeepers in the Czech Republic who manage some 700 thousand bees. When we look into history, my colleague Radek Vondráček said that thanks to Marie Terezie's patents of 1775 the beekeepers did not have to pay any taxes. And what's the practice? The practice is that today, who keeps up to 60 hives, taxes don't apply. You're increasing it from 30,000 to 50, but there's no limit to the number of beekeepers. He's already given it to you by my colleague here, I've got the letter from the Czech Beekeeper Union, I'll tell you the reasons why the Czech Beekeeper Union has opposed it. The reasons are quite simple. You say in the explanatory report that beekeepers write down beekeepers precisely so they don't have to pay taxes. If you suspect that, let it be investigated and you'll see that it isn't. It is a simple attack of beekeepers, which is an interest hobby in the Czech Republic. It's community service. And as my colleague Radek Vondráček said, for the sake of greater good, we should not tax the beekeepers, the small ones. And the reasons given by the Czech Beekeepers' Association are simple: Not to overwhelm the tax administration, first of all. Because if there are no restrictions on the number of hives, then every beekeeper, even if he has 10 hives, falls under that tax obligation at the moment, will have to keep an eye on how much and how much honey he sold, and if it's over 50 grand, he'll have to file a tax return. Another point presented by the Czech Association of Beekeepers is the retirement age. As I was saying, there are about 56,000 beekeepers, but the average retirement age is 60 years. The third point presented by the Czech Beekeepers' Association is the involvement in beekeeping and civil servants. Because as we know, some civil servants can't make extra money. And the next final point is the statistical surveys in beekeeping. Because if we put this in place, then it's going to be so-called fixling. I will read here or quote from the letter from the Czech Beekeepers' Union: "We are sorry that no one asked the opinion of the Czech Beekeepers' Union, in which the organized vast majority of all beekeepers in the Czech Republic are currently 56,500 members, and instead the argument will show the unsubstantiated view of the Association of Professional Beekeepers, who have only 47 members." I'll tell you what beekeepers are interested in these days. Nowadays beekeepers are interested in how much sugar they cost, because, of course, after dialing, they need to be fed. They're wondering if there's a plague and a varroosis in the area. And they're also interested in the purchase price of honey. As you know, in the past there was a Beebo, but unfortunately it no longer works in some way, it was such an organization for Czech honey and beekeepers to get to the Czech market. So much from me to the beekeepers, I guess. And I'll continue to see why I called your tax package. Next thing you know, corporate tax is from 19 to 21 percent. Next, VAT. It has already been mentioned here, but you kept saying in your pre-election vows - we will not raise taxes, we will not raise taxes. Period. And so on. And when I look at it, the VAT on these basic things-- you just increase it. You're saying there's going to be two rates, and there's going to be three rates. Books, I don't know why books, why it's not baby water, have a zero rate. So the government's five-caliber promises of tax increases vanished like steam over a pot. After they were no longer able to hang the people's bells on their noses, taxes simply went up. Next thing you know, sick leave is 0.6 percent of the gross wage. It's about 11 billion, and it touches all the working citizens. This is simply to be said to everyone that they will be paying 0.6% of the gross wage. And that's going to lower their income. That's VAT. When we look at the consolidation package, we see that there will be a price increase. I've said this before, but, as they say, repeat it, so you'll probably understand. Hairdressing and holistic services, draft beer, authors and artists' services, collection, transport and storage of municipal waste, repair of footwear and leather products, cleaning work, fuel wood are increasing. Well, I'll stop by here. It doesn't heat much with fuel wood here in Prague, but I come from Vysočina, we have 704 municipalities, a relatively small region, over 500,000 inhabitants and most people in small villages drown wood, either own or buy it from local sources. So you've been picking up since the new year. I could also name another increase, which shifts from 10% rate to 12% rate, and these are medicines, these are gluten-free products, these are magazines, these are public transport, catering and accommodation services, aqueous and sewerage. Well, of course, water and sewerage, that's the easiest tax, because you all need water and sewerage, and you're going to pick it up because no one's fixing it, it's selling big associations, big companies, and there you just have to be sure that if you make it expensive, you're going to collect the VAT. Well, I guess that's why you put it in there, too. [[15.50 hours]] And that's where you're sure if you make it more expensive, you'll collect the VAT. Well, I guess that's why you put it in there, too. When I look at the drugs, my colleague said it would be a billion-dollar increase for insurance companies, although it's 2%, and for people it's going to be some 300 to 350 million crowns. I drive through this little village and I always have ice cream and it's in the local newsroom, and so I talked to the gentleman there, and he said, Well, it's awful. What's going on? A few years ago, I was buying coal for 10,000, now I'm buying it for 30. But what's worse, I'm not good at business, I'm not buying the paper anymore - because I was wondering why it was selling everything and it's a newsstand, it's a newsstand together, but the paper didn't have any more. And he said, well, he doesn't buy the paper anymore. And now that you're going to put them at 21 percent and you're going to make them even more expensive, I don't think anybody is going to buy them at all. The last or one of the second-to-last topics I'm going to deal with is property tax. It's always called housing support, support for young families, but when we look again, we make real estate tax more expensive for everyone. In the larger cities it will be a much higher price, because there are higher coefficients and higher rates, in the smaller municipalities it will be less. But it's just getting more expensive for everyone and twice as much. In consolidation, and as I say, I've read in the tax package that it's going to be the income of the state. When I look in the newspapers, in the news, it is said that it will be the commune's income, that the budgetary determination of the tax will be reduced. Mr. Secretary, can you tell us what's going on with the real estate tax? What's it gonna be? Will it still be a local tax, or will it be a part of it? Because I'll be here, I dare to quote you, which you said before the election, and you said that raising real estate taxes - having a place to live is not luxury, we refuse higher real estate taxation. So I'm asking you now - why do you come up with double taxes on real estate taxes? I could probably stand here for a long time and talk about a reduction in building savings, which was once four and a half thousand, then three and now there are currently two thousand. It's used by older citizens, children, parents of children, and savings on their future housing, they'll get $2,000 from the state if they save $20,000. And if we look at today's inflation and the interest on building savings banks, it's not much, but at least part of it will cover inflation, and those young families, at least the kids have to start, to live. But you come up with a proposal to put in a thousand crowns. That means it's going to end completely. I can talk about increasing the road signs and so on, but I'm not gonna hold up here. Maybe I'll mention the state debt, 'cause they keep telling the truth here. And I'm going to put the fact that, under the rule of Andrej Babiš, the government's debt to GDP has declined, thanks to the covid, for the last two years has grown slightly, but it hasn't gotten to the debt as it did at the beginning. But now that I look at you for 2023, you have a record debt against GDP, 45,8%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u202	Thank you and with a factual remark the Minister will speak and then Mr Milan Wenzl. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u203	Too bad we don't listen to each other. My previous speaker said, Mr. Secretary, come and tell me what's going on with the real estate tax. That is what Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová asked me, and I answered her. So how many times are you gonna ask me the same thing today? If you weren't here, Mr. Ambassador, please read it in the log. It was between 12:52 and 1:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u204	Thank you and also Mr Milan Wenzl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard from Mr Kukla that the impact of an increase in tax on fuelwood will be mainly for villages, for smaller municipalities. But that's not true, because if we look, maybe one of the biggest impacts will be on businessmen, entrepreneurs and pizzeria owners, because that's where they drown with wood. I don't know if anyone realizes this, but that's gonna cost them, yes, even the food. There are really young people today, students, but there are even generations of really going to pizza. And it's not just pizza shops, but it's also small bakeries that drown in wood. And I'd say there's a lot of pizzerias in Prague. And they're drowning in wood. I think that the environmental tax will come again from the European Union, where it will be forbidden to drown wood completely. And I don't know how the entrepreneurs in those pizzerias are gonna figure it out, because everyone has an oven built right on wood, because I don't know if anybody goes to a pizza place and you see and feel how it smells, the wood that's there, and the pizza from the wood oven is totally about something other than electricity. So I just wanted to add that it will have no impact only on the villages, but it will also affect entrepreneurs in Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u206	Thank you very much for keeping time and there are three more entries with actual ones. First, Mr Martin Kukla, then Mrs Berenika Peštová and then Mr Finance Minister. I'm gonna load up an apology. At 20 o'clock, Mr Milan Wenzl apologizes for medical reasons. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u207	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I was here before 12 o'clock, but I completely misunderstood you because you were talking here that the property tax is collected by the state and is 100% income from the municipalities and that the state should somehow participate in it, that it costs him money. Now you're saying that the property tax will increase to double, but so far we haven't learned anything in paper form from the government, except we're reading some press releases. And that's why I'm asking you again how it's gonna be. And as for participation here in the House, I'm going to try to improve my participation when you say I wasn't here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u208	Thank you. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now perform with her factual opinion. Again, an apology, I'll reload. Minister Pavel Blažek from 16 o'clock for work reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u209	Thank you for the floor. I must confess, Minister, that it was I who went to see Mr Benda, through Madam President, if you would be so kind as to come here because there really were quite a lot of questions. I don't know if a colleague wrote them down. And I'd quite like to know the answers to them, because I'm saying, they weren't questions that would be repeated. That's one thing. And about the real estate tax. I, when I looked at the 217 essential comments that were not settled, I saw that quite a lot of them were repeated about real estate tax and it was quite hovering with the ministries, not only the other comment points such as the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and so on, but I also saw that the ministries were appealing a lot to keep the real estate tax from moving in that direction. So you answered them that you did not accept it, or that you would not approach it, so I would still be quite interested, because the way you answered Mrs Mračková here, through Madam President, I sat here, so you said some margin that it could be from 0.8 to 1 - I mean the coefficient - from 0.8 to 1, so that means it can either be 100 or 80, depending on what - but whether you agree or what does it matter? Because all we're getting is what we get from the paper, we don't have any other information. So we'd still like to know if it's moving somewhere and where it's moving.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u210	I thank the lady. I'm handing over the meeting management. And with effect now the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u211	I'll look for a mistake on my side. I'll answer the same question. You have a government proposal ahead of you. Nothing's changed about that. I have received a proposal, a joint proposal from the Association of Local Authorities and the Union of Towns and Municipalities and promised to discuss it in a government coalition. [[To them?]] That's all. That's how it's gonna be. We're going to discuss this at first reading today, so you all have a government proposal ahead of you. Then, when Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, I would argue whether it is beneficial for cities and municipalities, I said it is not my proposal that she must do so with those who will make the proposal. That the government's proposal doesn't raise the property tax by 100 percent, otherwise the revenue of 12.6 would be calculated. It introduces the so-called State coefficient, which is equal to the coefficient 1 in each city, the municipalities according to today, which is the yield of about 9 billion. Thanks to the fact that approximately 650 municipalities have a coefficient of 2, and several tens of municipalities have a coefficient of 3, 4, 5, some already have the tenths, so that means that if we wanted to comply with the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, then you have two options. Then you don't work with the state coefficient anymore, but with the basic one that's today. If it were to be a volume of 9 billion, it's probably mathematically based on an increase of 80 percent, if it were to be twice the current volume, then that volume would be 12.6 billion. But it is a proposal from the Union of Towns and Communities and the Association of Local Authorities. On the basis of this, if such a proposal were to be made, such an agreement would be part of the proposal of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities, the appropriate conversion of the coefficients for shared taxes. But I volunteered for something else, I guess I won't be able to make it, so I'll come forward if I don't answer or comment on the opinion of the honourable Member - now I've lost my name, I'm so sorry, who was talking about the pizzas and the pizzerias.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u212	Thank you. And please, another logged in... You volunteered once more? Okay, one more time, so we can actually keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u213	I'm sorry, I volunteered first to respond to the first performance, and in the meantime, it was second. In this debate, we must distinguish whether it is a payer or a non-VAT payer. If it's a VAT payer, that means it's worth more than $2 million a year, it doesn't matter what the rate is. Because he's applying a price without VAT, that's what I'm saying. I'm not capable at the moment, I don't have an analysis on me to tell you how many pizzerias are VAT payers or non-payers, but what you're saying can potentially only involve the insubordinates. It means those who have 2 million sales, now calculate it by the number of working days, it's nothing excessive, so it just doesn't concern them. And it does not apply to any VAT rate, because if they are payers, they, of course, charge value without VAT to costs. That's all I wanted to say about the show. But I don't know how many payers and insubordinates there are in a particular type of, like, a gastronomic facility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u214	Thank you. And I would like another duly registered, Mr Brož.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. A lot has been said since yesterday, a lot will probably be said. I, like some colleagues, have very much discussed and cut my contribution, focusing only on some things that I see as very important. For example, I will focus on the significant effects this tax package will have on businessmen. I would like to recall some of the most important changes and impacts. First of all, it is actually progressive taxation. It's just like that. The right-wing government introduces further progressive taxation of employees and entrepreneurs. The income band under which the 23 percent tax rate is applied instead of 15% tax will start at 36 times the average wage. In fact, this will extend the set of taxpayers to whom an increased tax rate applies. So, to put it simply, the higher tax rate will now be applied to revenues from roughly CZK 120,000 a month and above. This means, if you have an income of CZK 120,000 per month gross, you will pay income tax of 23 percent instead of 15 percent paid by other employees and businessmen. Self-employed persons will also feel a significant increase in the levy burden in the coming years, and this is certainly a very important and sensitive matter. In particular, the proposal proposes to increase between 2024 and 2026 the minimum assessment base on insurance premiums for self-employed persons from 25 per cent to 40 per cent of the average wage. This is by five percentage points per year, thereby bringing the minimum assessment base closer to the minimum wage level. At the same time, it is proposed that self-employed persons pay premiums of at least 55 per cent instead of the current 50 per cent of the tax base. This is for the raw numbers, so in practice it means that while today every businessman has to pay CZK 2,944 per month to social security, if his gainful activity is the main source of income, he should pay CZK 4,700 per month in three years. Instead of roughly 35,000 a year, the CFI would pay more than 56,000 crowns over a year. That means 60 percent more. For a businessman for whom his business is a secondary work activity, it is not so significant, but the monthly advance will be raised from the current CZK 1, 178 to CZK 1,884. So he would do a little over 22,000 crowns a year instead of 14,000. However, in addition to the contributions and the pension contributions, health insurance contributions are also to be raised for entrepreneurs, instead of 50 percent of the tax base they are to pay 55 percent. The monthly premium would thus increase from the current 2 722 to the new 2 994 crowns. Maybe it doesn't need to be that big, but when these bills and taxes are added up, it gives a pretty big amount, especially for the lowest income department. The increase in the levy burden on self-employed persons in the form of the proposed minimum assessment base adjustment and the increase in minimum premiums may have a very negative impact on economic growth. That's what business representatives agree on. I would like to quote the chairman of Mr Bábek Radomil's business unions here, where from the media, where he talks about the possibility that the proposed measures may lead to a reduction in the number of businessmen. But what he says is much worse is that instead of strengthening the principle of justice towards all workers, the government increases injustice towards a group of self-living citizens. I'll take the liberty of quoting it now. He says: "The attitude of politicians to businessmen is fatal. They ignore the fact that the businessman pays for everything from his own, bears the full risk of his business, the state does not care about his vacation or his sick leave, he does not have the right to a caretaker, he does not have a minimum wage, he has nothing of what the state guarantees the employees by law", warns Mr Bábek. According to him, the right-wing government sends a clear signal to the tradesmen, and again I quote: "You will pay as employees, but otherwise take care of yourselves" This argument cannot be accepted. Of course, it is not possible to put those matters on the level of employees and those who are self-employed in relation to what I have now quoted. Of course, the negative effects of the consolidation package also affect other areas, and we will also find those impacts in the field of culture that I have been pursuing in the long term. The culture sector has recently been severely tormented, severely punished, tested by restrictions in pandemic times, then came the energy crisis and more, and he always stands a little on the edge of interest. And so cultural institutions are being hit pretty hard with all the things that are around inflation and all that. [[16.10 hours]] The operations of cultural monuments are very expensive. With its proposal, the government plans to increase VAT on all tickets to culture and sport in the area of the culture, these are theatres, galleries, cinemas, concerts. So there's one positive thing that it didn't happen that these inputs jumped into the higher rate, which still looked like it in the spring, so if there's anything to praise, how is it that it's at least 12 percent. But it's important to remember here what I've said here several times in plenary. The cultural event will be the first thing the family budget can't take anymore, it's just the way it is, it's not going to the theater. And less money will flow to cultural institutions in their budget, and, on the other hand, the government has decided, for example, to cut VAT on books to 0 per cent. I wonder, and I would like to hear why, for example, books are at a zero rate, but tickets to theatres are at a 12% rate. A colleague gave the analogy similar, I heard before, to the infant water for example. So it's definitely a thing that just doesn't make complete, complete sense when it comes to some principle of putting together the package. The government also proposes significant savings in subsidies, amounting to a total of CZK 54.5 billion, if I am not mistaken, and I would like to ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture in this place how the planned cuts in this area will affect culture, if they already have an idea of the areas where these 54 billion will be saved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u216	Thank you. Ondřej Babka will vote with card number 15. And I will now ask Mr Ratiborský to speak with his contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, among other things, an increase in the price of the annual motorway stamp of CZK 800 from CZK 1500 to CZK 2,300 per year is part of the proposal. This amount will also depend on the prices of motorway stamps paid for 30 calendar days, 10 calendar days and one calendar tax. As well as the price of road signs paid for the use of road tolls by hybrid vehicles and vehicles powered by natural gas or by biomethane. The reason report says that the current price of the 1,500 CZK motorway stamp has been valid since 2012, and its real value has fallen due to the development of the price level. Since the rates of motorway signs are set by a fixed amount and, due to the increase in price levels, their price declines in real terms over time, it is desirable to periodically valorise their price. The annual historical price would now be 2300 per year. As a result of the price increase, according to the explanatory board, an increase in the revenue of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, which finances the construction, modernisation, repair, maintenance and administration of motorways and roads can be expected. So much for a reason. In March of this year, Minister Kupka for List said in an interview that the price increase is also related to the planned introduction of a one-day coupon. Its introduction, according to the Minister's statement, will mean in itself a loss of revenue from collection. If the Ministry had introduced a one-day coupon with the current price, his calculation would have meant a loss of up to half a billion crowns. By leaving aside, I will consider whether the introduction of a one-day coupon is more of a response to the call of motorists who use the motorway network once or twice a year, or, rather, whether it is imposed on us by the European Union. So what is the real reason for increasing the annual stamp by an entire 800 CZK? Consolidation of public finances, or the fact that we're introducing a one-day stamp? The Minister likes to rely on the Austrian draft on the issue of the valuation scheme for the price of stamps, but the comparison with Austria is less appropriate on the issue of the price itself, and what motorist gets for it. With us, converted into a kilometer of highway, we are currently paying for a kilometer of CZK 0.9 and we will pay 1.56. In doing so, the Rakušan pay 1.09 and have approximately twice the length of the kilometers. This means that we will pay double, but in Austria they have double the kilometers. At the same price in the Czech Republic, the driver will not receive the same service yesterday as in Austria. The kilometers of the motorway in the Czech Republic are also scant, other sections are built at a snail's pace and the quality of some sections is at least debatable. The increase in the price of the year-round coupon by eight hundred directly triggered a sharp criticism among the drivers. The price increase comes insensitively at this time, when perhaps all possible other household costs have increased: food, energy, housing. Some drivers are considering stopping on the highway and taking advantage of the district roads. In the country, people are addicted to cars to get to work. Often they have no choice but to use motorway networks or to drive around in a difficult way. So what effect will the increase in road safety and the financial situation of households have in practice? Let everyone answer their own questions. In direct conflict with the current increase in the price of motorway stamps, frequent repairs of already carried out construction works on the motorway network, extension of the deadline of completion and places of low quality of the work performed. The priceless price of the most frequently bought annual coupon brings us back to the idea where all the money is actually visible. Slowly, it doesn't have to be repaired so it doesn't have to be repaired again. The four-mile rolling section D47 between Bohumín and Antošovice was repaired after several years of litigation. The builders of the D48 motorway in Novojičínsk had to tear down part of the completed highway. Laboratory tests have shown that a non-compliant concrete mixture has been used. The length of the affected section is about 2.5 kilometers. The financial intensity of the entire operation has not been indicated. It doesn't matter. It was not cheap and it was not the first repair of the work already done and probably not the last. Not to mention repairing our D1 motorway transport artery. As the National Audit Office states on its website, the inspection has shown that the modernization of the D1 motorway is not completed, bridges and overpasses remain on the repaired parts in a state that threatens traffic safety and damage the repaired roadway to overloaded trucks, which reduces its service life. Auditors also draw attention to the poor-quality removal of defects, which create inequalities on the road and have a negative effect on driving comfort. In the media, I have read an interesting idea, which leads the matter to an absurdum, how much would it cost to even know that we're paying for something? In 2022, the state selected CZK 5 851 613 735 through the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure for 7 399 038 purchased stamps with an average value of CZK 790 per piece. If the average price of the stamp were CZK 9,900 and thus approximately 12,5 times more, it would bring CZK 73.3 billion to the Treasury. That's a really big difference. The Ministry of Transport's budget for 2023, or capital expenditure, amounts to approximately 76,7 billion. In other words, if the average price of the stamp were CZK 9,900, the Ministry of Transport's budget would rise twice. The authors of this idea allegedly also turned to the Ministry of Transport, so far without an answer. And because we are a resourceful nation, there have already been tricks to save in the future. Thanks to the fact that the new price will not apply until March next year, it could still be theoretically possible in February to buy an annual stamp for the existing 1500 crowns. According to current rules, it is possible to postpone the validity of the stamp from up to three months. So the savings drivers could still buy one at the last minute at old prices, which could theoretically start at the end of May. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u218	Thank you, Mr Member, and I would like to ask another duly signed-in Mr Jan Volný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u219	Well, thank you, Mr President, colleagues, but time is running out, it's long, it's washing out. Minister Stanjura left me, so I'm gonna talk like a wall here. Please, I'm not going to talk about the individual items you drew in there to draw something. I'm gonna be a little bit more philosophical. We're talking about the term austerity package, and we're talking tax package. How did it all start? A month ago, there was a bombastic press conference where you introduced an austerity package. At the time, it didn't look so bad, because you said to the entire nation: "We, people, our voters, our fellow citizens, will want about 40 billion to pay, and on the other hand, we will put 80 billion on the other side of the scale as savings in the state apparatus to put the economy together. I don't know if the numbers are accurate, but it was a third of you and two thirds of us as a state. In that package, we as the state claimed that the main part would be subsidies and that you would actually overwhelm the subsidy system. [[16.20 hours]] We don't really have such a big problem with this because we know that the subsidies really distort the economy. And if all of Europe goes without subsidies, I think we're gonna give the first round of applause, headed by President Babiš. But we've been asking you all this time: what kind of subsidies are you going to cut? The solar ones? The barons, they're the biggest. Or you to build family houses and apartments? Or the agricultural ones? And we got the answer: Well, it's getting ready, it's on the table, it's going to go to the government, it's going to go through a commentary procedure, and then we're going to bring it all to Parliament, and you're going to talk about it, and you're going to know it. Well, what didn't happen? A month and a month came together, and not an austerity package landed in Parliament, but a tax package. That means what you, citizens, fellow citizens, our voters, will pay you, we have here, we will discuss because it needs to be discussed, it is a legislative necessity for it to come into the law. And the rest of it, don't ask that yet. That means the tax package landed here. I was really amused when Minister Stanjura here said about it in the first sentences: Well, the tax package has to be discussed quickly, it has to be put into law, well, and then in autumn we will bring in our part of the budget, the 80 billion as savings. Please, it's a little bit of a scam against us and those citizens that you may have asked in good faith to be involved in the recovery of the economy and those budgets, because it seems to me like a recent case of ENERGY a. s. Raspberry, when they collected several billions from their clients, and then they said, "Sorry, you paid us and we're not gonna build it for you." So I see it as one big, big trick on citizens and voters. The Minister's speech also implies that the two percent for those legal entities: Well, it's not that bad, they agree, and they don't really mind. Colleagues, coworkers, well, I've also checked with a lot of friends, a lot of legal entities. It's not quite true, but I have to give the Minister the truth that there are some who say, well, we take it as part of the libation that the public finances will somehow settle. Colleagues, co-workers, government, I can imagine how busy it will be when the 2024 budget is discussed, and you are not going to point your finger at the 80 billion that the state should spare, what the rush will be, and how those soothed and long - suffering legal entities will drive you. I just don't think it's the right approach. You guys were supposed to come into this Parliament with that austerity package of yours, even if it's taxes, that's the one-third, and there's the two-thirds that we're going to save as a state, and you're going to see it in the budget for 2024. But you didn't. You guys brought that half, and you don't even know what you're gonna put in the other half. And now you're gonna stick to put the two-thirds in there and you're not gonna make it. It's gonna be a loophole again. Just like the loophole I want to talk about, like the other loophole, and the other one's a little bit of a backstabbing or a little bit of a backstabbing, are the two VAT rates. What we heard from Stanjura, when we introduced a third VAT rate of 10 percent, as it is wrong, as it is unsystemically, as we have heard the rhetoric, as it will now make things right. There'll be two rates. He basically told the Prime Minister today. Please, it's a lie. We have three rates again. If anyone doesn't realize that the zero rate is also the third rate of VAT, and if someone is sticking their head in the sand and saying that the fence is green, when it's already wiped red, I want to tell the citizens that the zero rate of VAT is the same as 5 percent, as 10 percent. That means we still have three VAT rates. So these are just things that I understand, and I just can't deal with it. Now, just in a nutshell, 'cause a lot of things are waking up here. If a colleague is sitting over there, she's not here, from KDU and all the coalitions who have something to say have told us sooner. What she said about the women's sanitary supplies, the baby water, that it's gonna sit around, that it's gonna change, so we could have saved ourselves a lot of time here, and we didn't have to discuss things. So I have the last two things. It's basically about gambling. One, happiness tax. We called it a co-worker who just left, back when it was discussed, a luck tax. I don't think it's entirely happy to tax people from winning lotteries and gambling. Gambling is an ugly thing, I have no problem with the fact that somehow it's included in the package. But tax winnings? Take the fact that Grandpa and Grandma have been betting sports for ten years, leaving maybe a hundred, maybe a hundred and fifty thousand, and after ten years, they're going to win 60 grand, and we're going to tax them. I don't think he's happy. And it's not like you're writing in that explanatory note that it's one step in the fight against the harm of gambling. I don't think that's the case, and it doesn't make any sense to me at all. We are thinking of making an amendment and proposing that this be left to the current option, where it is taxed from a million more. That's what I think he might have the logic. But those little wins shouldn't be taxed. And the second thing is that I wanted to talk about, but I'm not gonna mess it up here because I heard the minister himself was still thinking about it. It seemed illogical enough to me to raise gambling taxes on one side, I'm not saying if it's wrong, okay, but then put 65 percent of the community that's willing to gamble there. I don't quite see the logic and the nature of the thing why do it like that. Like letting a game room set up, I'm gonna get 65 percent of the taxes and only 35 percent of the state? But the minister himself said that he wouldn't be disturbed if someone came in, that it should be 50-50, or that the affair would be a little different. So I'm just gonna wait and see how it's gonna go, and I wouldn't want to storm this place in a glass of water now that it's not clear yet. So that's what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u220	Thank you. We have two factual ones; First Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka, then Mr. Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u221	Hello, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am taking the liberty of reacting effectively to a fellow Member of the Volný Member who spoke a moment ago. He's devoted a great deal of his speech here in the area of savings. I think that he is already an experienced Member for the two parliamentary periods prior to that which he has spent here, that he is very well aware that the House is discussing legislative amendments at first, second and third readings. The issue of savings at resorts, such as a reduction in salary by 2 percent, on which we agreed to reduce operating expenditure by 5 percent, other austerity measures at resorts, or, for example, a reduction in national subsidies, are not things that would be in specific laws and there was a reason for them to be included in this recovery package, which is a set of amendments to several laws. These are decisions that are made at the level of the resorts and which are written into the budget, the department chapters. So the commitment that we made as a government is clearly valid, we save on ourselves, we save on the ministries, we increase the efficiency of the state administration, we slim the state administration, and this will be reflected in the draft law on the state budget. This will be reflected in the steps of individual department chapters. I think anyone who knows the principle and the process of legislation understands this and understands it. So I wouldn't want the public here to mingle, mix apples and pears, but we've devoted ourselves to what's in this package, and it's completely logical. These austerity measures will be part of the draft state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u222	Thank you. Roman Kubíček. I see he's not here. Then I'll ask Mr. Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u223	I thank the Minister for instructing me, I know, of course, but you're also the press conference before the month I mentioned, you started your speech, you did it all at once, and we said - we want you guys here to do it, and this is what we're offering. [[Are you?]] And you said it would be one third, two thirds. I don't see why it couldn't have been part of this press and it wasn't supposed to be summarizing - yes, we want this, come approve it for us, and we'll bring this. I hope, Minister, that on Tuesday we will also touch this on the Committee on Budgets. So maybe I'll be satisfied with the savings that will be in the budget for 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u224	Thank you. Minister Stanjura wants to respond with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u225	This time I will not show it, it is on the website of the Ministry of Finance, savings on state operation 11.2 billion CZK, savings on salaries 9.9 billion CZK, other expenses CZK 3 billion CZK, subsidies CZK 54 billion. A total of 78.4 billion crowns. Then we'll check with the draft state budget, which will come at the end of September. It's really public material, I understand that everyone doesn't have time to watch what's on the web or isn't. If there's an interest, I can have the members of the budget committee send it out before Tuesday so everyone doesn't have to look for it and download it themselves. There's no problem. It's the calculation of two percent of the salary, that's the salary, plus FKSP, that's what you have to say. Those savings on the operation of the state, that's the 5% narrower operating expenses and so on. So it's nothing secret, the break-up to the individual items has been known since May 11th, but I'm saying I can have it sent if there's any interest, the whole presentation. You guys are talking so dirty about it at the press conference, so good, so we're gonna send you the presentation and we can evaluate it as we want, that's not important, that's where the numbers are. That's important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u226	Thank you and please another duly registered member, Mr Julius Špičák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u227	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of areas of consolidation have already been mentioned, criticised, discussed here, and I feel that research is basically the bite of the most and the saddest. It can be demonstrated that the government of the ANO movement placed a special emphasis on science and research. The chair of the movement and the Prime Minister became President of the Council of the Government for Science and Research and a colleague of the Vice-President of the House Havlíček developed the concept of The Country for the Future. Without precedent, research funding has increased to the declared 2% of the budget, and all these facts have been a much stronger appeal to the development of science and research than to the establishment of a dedicated ministry, which everyone perceives as mere formal fulfilment of the coalition agreement, and the emphasis on research de facto devalues. We wanted to become an Eastern European tiger or Israel, but as a result of the consolidation package, which I will describe in detail, we are becoming more like a research Venezuela. The changes proposed by the government in the consolidation package, for example, mean that state investment in technology will substantially decrease. The reason for this is an incorrect reduction of national subsidies for entrepreneurs. Limiting subsidies together with increasing all inputs, raising taxes and changing VAT will have an adverse impact on the growth of the business sector, on innovation and in the final result on the overall competitiveness of the Czech industry. It is appropriate to fear that the reduction in subsidies will lead companies to significantly reduce their research and development activities and reduce investment in innovative technologies. I do not know at all that the government would make any decision based on complex and professional analyses. Rather, the limitation of subsidies seems to be a cut-off and a media move in order to argue with restrictions on the subsidy business. Of course, there are companies that have built up a business out of subsidies, but it would be good to think about the functional regulation of subsidies based on a detailed analysis of what companies are and what processes therefore allow the abuse of subsidies. In addition to limiting research and innovation in the private sector, by the Minister, through the President, we are literally monitoring the destruction of science on live air, which is absolutely unbelievable because it is in sharp contradiction with the government's programming statement, which I will quote. I don't know if I should laugh about it or cry about it. So we want to stand - quote, which is smart, effectively economical. Our country is full of skilled, productive and innovative people. Our science and research have a long-term great name in the world. - Not so, only individuals are great and usually individuals who do not work in the Czech Republic. - Science and research will have indisputable support, because in them we see an opportunity to move the Czech Republic even higher among the most successful countries. - What kind of support? - We will aim to increase financial allocation to support basic research. We will further encourage the mobility of researchers, internationalise the environment of research organisations and promote targeted bilateral and multilateral contacts with key international partners. - A truly absurd counterpoint to what is really happening. This was therefore a declaration, and the reality is that the draft state budget for 2024 is expected to reduce expenditure by an unprecedented 10 per cent. I'll get another number. In proportion to the budget or VAT, we reach less than 50 per cent compared to Germany or Holland, for example. So there is no way we can catch up with such advanced countries in Europe. At the same time, the Science and Research Council, where I had eight years of honour to work, drew up a draft budget for science every year, which was well prepared and taken into account record inflation, for which, of course, the government bears full responsibility. However, the Minister of Finance, through Mr President, has decided completely unprecedentedly to ignore this proposal drawn up by political competent experts, and it is fascinating that a dedicated minister has passively assisted in reducing the funding of science. [[16.40 hours]] I'll quote French historical politics. Don't take it personally, it's a quote, "That's worse than a crime, that's stupid." As far as I know, the Prime Minister has also attended the relevant meeting of the Government Council on Science and Research, but basically the cuts of 10 percent have not yet been affected. It should be noted that underfinancing science under the pretext of savings will return negatively immediately. I see it live as the departure of young capable people abroad. The reason for this is not the wages, but rather the scientifically unfriendly, non-perspective, environment. I have an example in my own family. My daughter works in a more creative environment in a Spanish university hospital. We have traditionally behaved with science in a rather stepmotherly way at all. I'm gonna quote one of the ex-Presidents who said we could finally buy the science results. Or it was said, let's get the young people on the run, they'll come back. They just don't come back, and their parents are terrified that these gifted children will come back. I would say that this country is simply not for the young. Cutbacks in science make no sense even from an economic point of view. The National Budget Board warned that, while maintaining current productivity, we would have three times the national debt to GDP within 50 years. However, according to the Budgetary Board, we could effectively reduce this state debt by increasing performance, by increasing turnarounds, by technological acceleration, through support for research and development. But the current government ignores these analyses in a better way, even worse, it is not familiar with them. This can be judged on the basis of the proposals it makes and how it makes. So I'm afraid we're actually becoming more of a country of the past than a country of the future. As I have already said, the draft state budget for 2024 includes a 10% reduction in expenditure on science and a 10% reduction in funding for the Academy of Sciences, the Grant Agency and the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic. Specifically, with the Academy of Sciences, this, together with inflation and with the increase in energy, means a real budget reduction of some 35 percent, which, together with the reduction in EU subsidies, is conditional on the institution's increased contribution to funding, is therefore literally winding-up. Again, I know what I'm talking about, because my brother is one of the heads of the Academy of Sciences Institute. In conclusion, I'll take my advice. Within savings, cancel the Ministry of Science and Research, which has no competence and only contributes to the swelling of officials. Review the so-called funding of research within ministries, apart from the Ministry of Health, Education and Industry, which is still several billions a year. Specifically, Ministry of Defence 440 million, Ministry of Interior 852 million, Ministry of Agriculture 1 175 million. What's there to explore? Other resorts also have smaller amounts. Funds should be allocated to grant agencies, and ministries could compete with them as well as other institutions. Because it's a big science to do science, and very few people and very few institutions can do it. Finally, cuts in the financing of science and research without any analysis and strategy are not only ineffective but totally counterproductive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u228	Thank you. The Minister Stanjura wants to respond to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u229	Thank you. I won't need two minutes from now. We're not discussing the draft state budget. The draft state budget will come here when it comes here. Let us also discuss the amounts mentioned by the Member. That's all I had to say. We are conducting political negotiations these days and weeks. The negotiations are not closed. What came about - I don't know why the law is like this, I suggest you change it - is actually the initial official material that was sent to the Ministry. Now the Budgetary Rules Act is being followed, and this is what happens as every year - you know from the time of your governments - political negotiations. So I'm gonna ask -- and it's really just a request -- to let the 2024 budget debate go to September when it's here. Then we'll see if those amounts are what you're talking about or what you're talking about, then we'll defend it, and you might criticize it or suggest any changes. Today it is premature and I apologize, but it is not the subject of negotiations and those amounts are far from final.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u230	Thank you. In fact, Mr Špičák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u231	I believe that creating some pressure and a certain opponent at this stage is not premature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u232	Thank you. Another of the applicants is Mr. Aleš Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we are here in the draft law on the consolidation package, the consolidation of finances. But what do we have ahead of us? Here's one of the ministers saying, let's talk about what's in the package. Minister Stanjura said, and I quote, "You have a proposal ahead of you, and it pays." But what's going on around here in the debate? That's where we'll know it's still real estate tax. We know here from Mrs. Bělohlávková, through you, that infant water will go to a different rate. We also know that entrepreneurs and unions will be preparing some of their proposals to come up with a government that may accept some of them, perhaps not. So what exactly are we talking about right now when the 750 pages that have been presented to us were for all of these organizations and the authorities concerned only on a five-day commentary procedure? So the minister here spoke of the package, but he did not tell us how such rapid changes for the 73 billion crowns he was communicating with others. Who even supports the package, who's ever seen it. Any business unions, Chamber of Commerce, Trade Unions, Rectors, Association of Industry and Transport? We learned everything and learned everything gradually. So how did such communication, which is important in promoting such changes, take place? It all started with a bombastic press conference - we've all seen it - where, first and foremost, all ministers were obliged to support the package to show the unity that they really are one team. What happened in the end? Eventually, everyone looked, probably didn't know what was going on and what major cuts would be in their departments. So I have an example here. Minister Lipavský defied Minister Stanjur, the first ministry refused cuts, we heard immediately afterwards - and he sat there in the first place. In the government coalition, I quote, there's still another big break. The ministers do not agree on the reduction of salaries in the state administration. The Ministry of Finance, led by Zbyněk Stanjura, has come in the past days to reduce salaries by 4 to 5 percent in the next year's savings. However, this does not appeal to the pirát, whose chief and minister of local development Ivan Bartoš opposed such a significant reduction. He criticized Minister Stanjura for failing to comply with agreements, deliberately deciding where to cut or add. Then we have another reduction in the budget for science, research and innovation by 0.45% of GDP in 2024. "This is a gamble with the future of the Czech Republic," said the Minister of Science Helena Langšádlová at the meeting with journalists. According to her, the Ministry of Finance's work proposal for the next year's budget is unacceptable and contrary to the government's programming statement. "The Ministry of Finance allocated 35,8 billion to science in the work proposal, with a reduction of more than 10 percent year on year. The Research, Development and Innovation Council proposes a budget of 12 billion higher, nearly 48 billion." End of quote. Yes, even ministers who should probably know when they're sitting in the front row supporting this consolidation package at that big press conference just staring with their mouths open. [[16.50 hours]] Let alone, we should not look not only at opposition benches, but also at entrepreneurs, trade unions, or, of course, citizens, to whom all this should be presented clearly, transparently and predictablely. But that probably didn't happen because even the ministers themselves didn't understand. Well, I'm wondering at this point, and I'd like to ask those ministers concerned if anything has changed, if they really support what was presented there. Whether Mr. Lipavský, Mr. Bartoš, Mrs. Langšádlová and others here support these cuts, which, of course, relate to the consolidation package, because we ourselves do not know what its content will be, if the property tax changes here, there will be a change in the dépéháček for example in the infant's water and perhaps other x-things. So what are we discussing here today at first reading? We can really only talk about it in general. The coalition partners were also surprised by the proposal, for example, to remove the ponds used for fish farming from the obligation to pay property tax. It's not my proposal, I don't know where he came from, said Minister of Agriculture Marek Výborný today. Today, when we're discussing the consolidation package the next day. Minister Bek, watch out, but he's mature for that. Minister of Education Mikuláš Bek presented several priorities on Tuesday for improving the quality and availability of education. I quote: that cannot be done without considerable investment. They intend to bail out the planned loan from the European Union of CZK 45 billion, my friends. The Minister wants to borrow at a time when the Czech Republic has historically the highest state budget deficit and the government cuts subsidies, increases taxes and looks for savings on all sides. That's not all. Everyone was watching the press conference, the consolidation package that should happen in it. For example, here we have Mr. Bernard's chief of budget committee, which is 23. 6. says. For the first time, Mr Bernard spoke to the News List about establishing more intensive cooperation. I quote: Mr Stanjura has it difficult, but I have already decided not to rely on the expert apparatus of the Ministry of Finance, in which I have no confidence, said Mr Bernard, who is the head of the House Budget Committee. I'm still quoting. I therefore agreed with Mr Mojmír Hampl, the head of the National Budget Board, that I would always have them evaluate the risks to income and expenditure before making any binding vote. End quote for Message List. Has this happened, Mr Bernard, through Mr President? Can you introduce us to the risks assessed when we're at the first reading that the National Budget Board evaluated? Because a binding vote is coming. So if you put on the views and recommendations of the National Budget Board, I do not understand that you disobeyed them when you were missing CZK 19 billion in the budget for extraordinary pension valorisation. What changed? What happened that suddenly, as the chairman of an influential budget committee, this is an important advisory body, but which, in preparation for or about which you did not listen in preparation for the draft budget of 2023 due to extraordinary valuations? (?) And that's just a minimal excerpt and proof that I don't hold back from how miserable this government communicates not only inside with its own ministers, but it communicates poorly on the outside as well. So everyone after the package show at the whole government's bombastic press conference, they were watching like steam, what's going on? The union looked like spring. Incredibly this approach was then criticized by business associations, such as the Confederation of Industry and Transport. I quote: The consolidation package was created without discussion with business, taken away by companies and their competitiveness. That communication really is awful for this government. And not only the three-hour conference where we learned very little, but also after. This tax package is simply a non-conceptive slab of various measures, which are not at all communicated with those concerned. Not to mention catastrophic communication towards citizens. Can we cross individual communication laps, certainly, that will happen, but openly mystify citizens? So I'll get started. So social networks, Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura 10. 8. 2021, I quote: Increasing real estate taxes is one of the topics that I deal with you repeatedly on my travels across the Czech Republic. A lot of you are worried that the left will increase taxes. I understand that when we finally managed to cut taxes and leave people more money in their wallets, the socialists once again declare an attack on their wallets. It's not supposed to be that way. The state should give people space to succeed, but it does not punish activity and diligence. The increase in real estate tax will not help anyone and will pay the tenants the most for it, which will increase the rent and the housing will be even more unavailable. Next, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, I quote: I am not pleased that the reduction in the deficit of the previous government will be slower due to the war in Ukraine, despite inflation and war spending, the next budget deficit must be below 280 billion. But it will certainly not be at the expense of pensions, raising taxes on the income of our citizens, or introducing charges in hospitals. Next up, having a place to live is not a luxury. We reject higher real estate taxation. [[It shows the printout.]] Next: The state must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and the family. We won't allow an increase in real estate tax. And Prime Minister Petr Fiala: We are not going to raise taxes to people, although there is demand. We promised we wouldn't raise taxes and we wouldn't want to raise them. We consider it better when people have more money in their wallets. Our government won't raise taxes. We don't raise taxes. Savings instead of tax experiments. The insatiable state needs a diet, not higher taxes. We're not gonna raise any taxes together. Unfortunately, the opposite is true. Taxes will increase, taxpayers' wallets will lose CZK 73 billion on different fronts. For now, we don't know where, because a lot of things are going to change, so we're at first reading who the consolidation package is, but we still don't know. For example, you can tell some citizens that we are in some kind of a situation, and it calls for some measures. But how can we trust you if you can't even start with yourself? You guys are really just talking about it, but the Civil Service Act is clearly proof that you don't mean it. Just like with the number of ministries, because it's just politics, prebends. You certainly don't start with yourself, they're just great places for you, for your friends and unsuccessful candidates for the House. One example for all. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has two political representatives, Mrs Jelínková of KDU-ČSL and Mrs, who nobody even knows about from the Social Policy Committee, which is called Zuzana Freitas Lopesová. She is Mrs Richterová's personal assistant during the last parliamentary term, and at the moment she is Deputy Minister of Government of Mr Marian Jurečka. A pirate who has been deputy since the beginning of the term of office. How many times has she been on the Social Policy Committee? Zero times. She may have been sitting there in the audience, but she never defended anything. We do not know her opinions at all, she has never been with Mr Marian Jurečka to defend something that is happening at the employment offices, with pensions, with the Czech Social Security Administration. So here I am calling on Minister Jurečka to tell me the competence of this deputy who has a secretariat, a salary, a driver with a car, but which we have just never seen on the Social Policy Committee. You say you start with each other. Well, maybe when the Prime Minister gets here, he's looking up wisely, and with a good voice, he says, "We're saving ourselves." But the facts talk about something else. So I quote again; On June 29th, the government, next to the legislative form of the austerity package, took place in a rather inconspicuous way - it is written in the press - it also approved the proposal for an adjustment of the number of jobs in the state administration. The cabinet plans to increase the total number of positions by about 160, despite earlier promises to reduce the situation. While the seats are about to decline somewhere, the vast majority of the authorities are to be recruited and the cost of salaries is to rise by tens of billions of crowns. Changes should apply from July. End of public quote. [[17,00 hours]] Tens of millions, yes. [[The Minister's response.]] It's not tens of billions, sorry, it's tens of millions for those 160 new positions. Until now, and so did Minister Stanjura in his speech, we do not know anything about the budget spending side, about cuts in ministries, such as the cancellation of ministries, of course there is no mention of this at all, we do not know what subsidies will be cut in, because by this silence we are preventing us from being under the press of lobbyist groups. No one actually knows anything together. So I would like to ask whether the esteemed ministers to whom this applies, here these cuts in spending, who criticised it as Minister Langšádlová, Minister Lipavský, Minister Bartoš, Minister Bek for education, who has to take 45 billion loans for this, have already shut their heels and agree to it, or do they also have other opinions and other challenges that they need to finance from the state budget, or do they simply borrow for it as Mr Bek, or will they simply keep quiet, or will they say about it? For now, it looks like he's keeping his mouth shut. Everybody shut up in heels. And I don't want to say those two words. For the time being, the only one who is really serious about savings in the government is Minister Jurečka. Each pensioner put CZK 7 000 in the state budget on average when they changed despite legitimate expectations for all seniors of valorisation, which will be dealt with by the Constitutional Court. For now, it's the only group that's involuntarily put money on the altar to the state budget. You, as a government, certainly not with your expenses. You still have 18 ministries, you have more officials, you have more friends in positions of paid deputy. I've got the government's programming statement that's changed. I have here January 2022, March 2023. [[He's showing the papers.]] This has changed, and even then the government did not come before the House, so that in some way we could vote on whether or not the government's programming statement was rescinded, whether or not we agree that the government really has our trust. And here's one sentence, I took the social and family policy. It says here: Through tax instruments and a simplified social welfare system, we will ensure that the work and costs of raising children and caring for loved ones do not mean a decline in standard of living. I already did. I already did. For example, only for families with children has the real amount of parental allowance decreased by CZK 75 000. Until now, we don't know who's gonna get an updated parenting raise, if it's a 1-year-old. 1. 2024, or it'll be for everyone. Let's see how the government stands up to this. But one thing we do know is that it's going to be CZK 50,000, which certainly doesn't equal the real fall. We didn't know it until now, but as far as families are concerned, of course, they're going to lose some of their finances, except that, of course, they've gotten a little bit more expensive. Prices of motorway stamps are expected to increase. That's what most families need. Kindergarten is canceled. We talked about this. The actual cancellation of the building savings will be presented here by Patrik Nacher at second reading, as he said. The increase in real estate tax will also not be a small item for all families with children. The higher VAT, which will affect family budgets, includes collection, transport, landfill of municipal waste, fuel wood and more. The increase in VAT even awaits families, for example, gluten-free diets, food services in general, water, sewerage, heat, tickets for cultural events and sports. All this will be an intervention in family budgets, including, for example, a tax credit for spouses and so on. There is also a higher rate of infant water, but it is probably, as the honourable Member said, my honourable colleague Bělohlávková, that will be at a different rate, by your means, Mr President. And I want to say here that family policy and support for families, as well as within the budget, are very important, because our number of children has fallen by 10,000 year on year. That's bad news, very bad news. And you give these measures, or rather, you don't motivate people to have those children. For example, this is also crucial for pensions when we have an ongoing pension system. Everyone knows that. So speaking of pensioners and pensions, linking pension reform to consolidation package is really very insensitive towards the elderly and only leading to the distribution of society. The guilt you switched to seniors that they're eating out of our budgets, that it won't be for pensions, will be signed on to Czech companies for many years in advance in the future. By allowing this discussion at all, you have divided society and deepened the already fragile disrespect for old age and the elderly. He's starting to rattle with guns. Remorse for seniors from people on social networks, through information in the media that they are de facto eating away at our future, that they are certainly well, does not bode well for future social reconciliation. Just read any discussion under the articles or go to the pub. Neither you, as a government nor you, as coalition MPs, really mind that the law on extraordinary valorisations has been violated, because it is a social demand that you yourself have created. Suddenly everyone understands pensions. There are various charts running around social networks that explain how they are actually doing well, how inflation has been compared to them as the only one. And they say that without context, without knowledge of things, in short, just like we do here at this counter, often in the media, because we just don't explain it enough. Not only seniors, but with our entire company, this government is playing a dangerous game. You keep talking about joining, but you split your policy. The tax package will make life and the elderly more expensive. You don't mind because they're for you, and you've done that several times, just some item in the Excel table. So you say, if they can't do it, if they're on the edge with their income, then here we have a great - yay - social system as a housing contribution. That's where they can come to the Labor Office and ask for it. Such a shame for all those who have worked their whole lives to go to the Bureau of Labour. You wouldn't have seen those seniors chewing on their homes when they don't have the money to go begging for some kind of benefit from the Labor Office. The consolidation package, which will make life more expensive for all of us, and the so-called pension reform, which has already reduced seniors' pensions, is, to put it mildly, an insensitive cocktail that will significantly affect their family budgets. It doesn't have anything to do with each other. And you know it. You are transparent and unpredictable to the citizens. With the tax package and the change in pension parameters, no one knows what it will eventually be, what it will be prepared for. What you're doing here is chaos! You're going to cost and raise people's taxes. You're not explaining anything to anyone because you probably don't even know what's gonna happen to them or not. And the proof of that is that individual Members here are taking up individual taxes and say, maybe it will still be different, we are still discussing it, as in real estate taxes, like in infant water, like in ponds, in beekeepers, in other taxes. The Minister of Agriculture doesn't know it's like this. You surprise all citizens and yourself in the coalition. You deepen distrust among citizens, divide society, and piss off individual people against each other, individual groups of people. Finally, I just want to say that I will listen carefully to what will happen here not only during the first, second, but mainly third reading. We will be making amendments at second reading. But we don't agree with this negotiation in this way. We have a consolidation plan prepared, and we have a slightly different plan. I think this government owes us all answers on how it will save itself and on the budget spending side of its ministries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u234	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And we have three factual points. First Prime Minister Fiala, then Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u235	When someone, Juchelka, reads bookmarks and doesn't read the books, they may look very educated and consecrated, but they don't know anything about the books. Just as someone who reads only media subtitles and doesn't care about the actual content, and you've shown it in many ways, just as you've embarked on saying that someone has worked for someone, so they don't have enough competence to be a deputy and so on and so on. But I'm gonna skip all that, and I'm not gonna give you back to the same degree. Your speech undoubtedly has a certain appeal where you have used your previous media presence. I'm not denying it. But the content - the content was really missing there. But I want to clarify one thing that you said that might confuse someone, that we don't know what's in the consolidation package, that we want to change it, and all the confusion. You achieved that effect by mixing pears with apples, by actually confusing the state budget preparation and consolidation package. Whatever the budget looks like, the consolidation package will save us CZK 94 billion. We will reduce the deficit no matter what budget we draw up. Another debate is what we're drawing up next year's budget. Someone might even have said that. We have prepared a consolidation package that we have introduced to the public. We haven't made any changes in it, and we haven't reported any changes yet. But we have the first reading as with every law and second reading. And what's second reading for? The second reading is for us to correct things that we may not have succeeded in hearing the arguments and possibly adopting an amendment, and that is what we want to do in this law. That's honest politics, that's right politics, and that's a policy we're not ashamed of. There is no confusion, the whole coalition is behind the consolidation package and we will continue to do so in the next few days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u236	Thank you. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u237	When we find time with Mr Juchelka in peace, we'll add up the tape and count the number of insults. We have a pretty good relationship. Mr Juchelka always says, let's have a fair debate, but the speech was pierced by a lot of personal insults and personal attacks, as well as inaccurate information. I won't use strong words. Mr Juchelka said, this year or when - you achieved the highest budget deficit in the history of the Czech Republic. No. How did you figure that out? What year was that? What are you comparing it to? It's not true. Quite innovative approach to the discussion of the House press. If we agree to cancel the second reading and that we will always vote at first reading, that there must be no changes, I will be in favour. That's how I understood Mr. Juchelka's speech. Then what can you afford to propose some kind of amendment? What if we happen to approve an amendment from the opposition? How is that possible? What are we debating today? How do we know what this law will look like if we do not know the amendments to the opposition. What if we approve? We can't approve him! We will be criticized for discussing something else at first reading. I don't get it at all. How nice it is to read the headlines from the media. The first 10 minutes were the authorship of many government MPs, that is to say, or citations from different periods, from different social networks. Why not, nothing against it, but his own insight was actually missing there. And what are the counterproposals of the YES movement? We're consolidating slower. Slower. This means, when the 360 deficit was last year, what should the budget result be this year according to the YES movement, so that we do not consolidate too quickly? How much would that be? 320, 330 or 295, as we suggested? Then choose if it's supposed to be a higher or lower number! You're criticizing us for both. It's too much and it's not enough at the same time. It's too much and it's not enough. I'm in and out. Answer yes or no? Yes and no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u238	Thank you and please Mrs Balaštíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u239	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to comment on my previous speaker, Mr Juchelek, through you, Mr President, on those political deputy colleagues. I know about two at the Department of Agriculture. One's for the TOP 09 and one's for the Pirates. Gentlemen walk, speak, read better. They read what's written on paper. When the words run out on paper, there'll be silence. When the expert questions start, it's quiet or the Deputy Director picks up, looks at his watch and says I have to go. Please note that there is nothing more embarrassing when we show this to the people sitting there because those committees are public. Everyone out there realizes it's really just a newsstand. It's embarrassing to us, it should be to you, and I think we should stop doing this. And believe me, we'll appreciate it when these stores are over, because they're gonna end up awkward for all of us, and at the end of the day maybe even for the Deputys, because they have nothing to say professionally. I personally blame them. Maybe the salary is so big, maybe no one would hire them, but let them go to places where they can't see so much. Think of something, but really realize that these are the first cuts that will be seen, for which the people will be grateful to you, and maybe eventually the parties, because it's their awkwardness. For us political representatives - ours - were not really and there is nothing more awkward when you yourself know that asking any question is useless. Useless, because the man often doesn't know what he's talking about, and I wouldn't get anything out of him. Making fools of them is also pointless. None of us need to prove that to ourselves. So please start with this page here, and we can agree on some points, and I'm sure you'll give me the truth that it's true and that's true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u240	Thank you. I've left about five more seconds, but I've left the previous speakers as well. I'll ask Mrs Peštová, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to the Prime Minister. You're the one who said what a rare match it is. You discussed it beautifully. These are the comments from the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, and this is the Association of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce. [[shows the supporting documents]] I wonder, of course, as I said before, Minister Stanjura heard me, you went with the contradictions of 218 fundamental remarks. Two hundred and eighteen! Can you tell me, Prime Minister, what did you do with the tripartite that she bent like that? What did you do with the tripartite? When I settled my remarks, they were yelling at you! What have you done with the unions that are on strike alert? Where are the comments that were made within the interreort, and suddenly everyone is silent! What's going on? The ministry, which made major comments, shut its heels, explained, unaccepted, and they're silent? Is this an interresorative commentary? Is that how you deal? Well, thank you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u242	Thank you and please take a factual note from Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. So I don't know who I was insulting in this speech, I really don't understand it, because, on the contrary, even though I was perhaps a little more emphasizing, I was just describing how the government communicates about this consolidation package. Everyone knows that it's miserable. Political commentators, economic experts, they all say it's awful about communication. I will answer Prime Minister Fial with the words of Minister Stanjura. If the real estate taxes and baby water don't change, that's what your coalition MPs - some of them were talking about. And you can listen to the footage between 16.15 and 16.40. It's in the tape screen. So if something like this is going to happen on such crucial things that we've been talking about property tax for months, and you're still saying that maybe it's still going to change, then, of course, I'm saying the other way around that it's not ready to go to first reading. That is why, at this point in time, I also propose that this press be returned to the government for recasting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u244	Thank you, I'm aware. And I will ask another duly registered Member Richard Brabec. [[A note from Minister Stanjury.]] It's not properly logged in. I'm sorry, I mean de facto, of course. Really, then Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u245	Thank you. I'll let the Minister go. Maybe he'll record me on something else. [[He's looking at the board.]] Now I thought I only had 16 seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u246	No. When I'm upset by saying "de facto," I haven't played it for you yet. It's on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u247	I feel much better now. [[Laughter on the left.]] With a sense of safety, drought and security. Well, first of all, I want to thank you -- but it's ironic -- to the Prime Minister, Minister Stanjur, that they're here with us now, because at least we feel like we're not talking to the wall. And when the debate gets a little bit messy, you always put that incentive in there. I think you must appreciate the fact that there are no obstructions. We don't quote from any books, no encyclopedias, no Bibles, or anything else. But I only wanted to respond briefly - in the meantime, Aleš Juchelka came forward - but to Minister Stanjura. Minister, we remember you - I have a longer memory too, I'm not saying better, but longer - as a very hard glossator and a hard opponent. But I feel like when you're on the other side, like you can't take the harder punch. So if on one side you're a terminátor, then you can't be a Barbie Barbie if it turns out who's punching, you have to know how to get it. That's the way it is. If the insults were personal - and I didn't see them there with my colleague Juchelka, so clearly, we should always be able to free ourselves from that, but the political debate is fine. So I'm saying, you've been and you're definitely still tough on this one, and when I was standing here or sitting as a minister all these years, I listened to you, too. But at that point, I expect logically that you will be able to bear it. And I think we're quite gentle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u248	Thank you. Minister Stanjura, de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u249	I wasn't talking about myself being insulted by Mr Juchelka. I agree with the thesis that whoever gives the shots is supposed to accept them, I have no problem with that. I am constantly annoyed - and Mrs Balaštíková here said so - with the tobacco shops, my friends. So look at my resort and tell me, who's not competent, who's going to the committee? Look who I've managed to get into state services, helping me as deputy. He's not my friend, he's not a newsman, and he'd make a lot more money in the private sector. So either be specific or don't say and insult those co-workers. If I'm talking about an ex-bank board member who is in charge of financial markets, if I'm talking about the same person who was the highest-ranking Čech in the European Commission and is in charge of communicating with Europe today, and you're able to say that they're market players, amateurs in general, and they don't know anything, I have to stand up for them! Because I'm glad these people are in the service of the state, not in the private sphere. And believe that they have applied much, much better. Just as you weigh your words, or be specific, and then let the man defend himself. I think he was talking about the friends, by the way, Aleš Juchelka, the stockbrokers, the political deputy. So when you tell me that there was someone incompetent who would act on, for example, a budget committee from the Treasury Department, I'll deal with it. I have competent people there. And when I spoke of the deficit, Mr Juchelka avoided the answer when the highest deficit in the history of the Czech Republic was in our government, so I would like him to tell us. And then I asked a question that wasn't rhetorical. You want to consolidate more slowly. Last year, the budget was 360 billion. So in your opinion, how much should be this year if we consolidate too fast? I think it's a legitimate question, we can talk about it, I'm not questioning it, that someone wants to consolidate more slowly, and someone wants to consolidate more quickly. This is indeed a legitimate political debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u250	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Balaštíková and then Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u251	Well, hello again. But, Minister, through you, Mr President, I was specific. I was talking about two deputies at the Department of Agriculture. I took advantage of the Prime Minister's presence here, and I spoke to what my colleague Juchelka said. I said there are probably others. I wasn't specific to you guys, you know, you're taking it for nothing, I don't want to use that ugly sentence that a hit-and-run goose always gets in touch. I'm glad you stood up for these people, knowing them. I was talking about these two people, it was specific, I didn't want to name them, there are three deputy politicians, but I didn't name one because he has the expertise, even though he's in the position of political deputy. [[professional, to be said]] I didn't even say the names, I said only from which political parties, I could have been much worse, I said it politely. You're making a point of hitting me, and mine -- essentially, it was a request to realize what it would mean to those citizens, what it means to us, that these places are there. And I'm not saying they're with you, I'm saying they're with you. Minister, you know very well that they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u252	Thank you, ma'am. And with Mr Juchelka in fact, then Mrs Peštová and then Mr Válek in fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u253	Minister Stanjura weeps on the wrong grave. I was just quoting the chairman of the budget committee, and I quote again, it's from the Report List, and I quote, that's the quote there, okay? "Mr. Stanjura is having a hard time, but I've already decided not to rely on the Ministry of Finance's expert apparatus, which I have no confidence in," said Bernard. This is a quote from Mr. Bernard's Message List. But tell it to each other, not me. I've been talking about this all along - and don't yell at me - about the miserable communication of this government here to the consolidation package, to all of us here. [[comments from the Minister of Finance outside the microphone]] And we can quote it several times, because it is from open sources: the highest deficit in the history of the Czech Republic in May. The state budget deficit reached 157 billion. - That's been repeated several times. That's it, let's see what happens at the end of the year. I firmly believe that this will be the deficit you have planned, I believe as a citizen of the Czech Republic that we have a good government, so we will see what you have planned. But for now, we see that we are missing 50 billion in the Modernization Fund, and we lacked 19 billion in pensions, the way you treat that state budget, the way you treat the state budget as a law. I mean, there's normally talk about it here, and everyone can read about it. So if anyone doesn't have confidence in Treasury officials, it's not me, it's not even any opposition, it's a government coalition, and it's the head of your budget committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u254	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u255	Thank you for your word. I'd like to stand up for Minister Stanjura right now. He's here defending all the 60 laws that change. And I'm not gonna make any procedural proposals, you don't have to worry. But that's how I remembered when the state budget was defended here and the way the ministers were sitting here because you asked for it to sit here. And if you're defending 60 laws here, I understand that it's not all in your mind, but now there's the Minister of Health here, but the other ministers, as the Prime Minister always comes here, they might come here sometimes, too, because all the questions here are right at you, and I understand that your gesture is the Ministry of Finance, and even the questions that have been falling here have fallen into the ranks of the Ministry of Transport - but unfortunately, the Minister is not here, isn't there. So I think it would at least be polite for you to take turns here at least three, four ministers, at least from the 60 laws that they have in their individual policies, so that the questions that are falling don't really have to fall over and over again, because it's pointless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u256	Thank you. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u257	Of course now, Mr President, when I, by your means, was called upon as one of the ministerial ministers to say something, only two comments and purely pragmatically without any emotions. Yes, the Ministry of Health had a number of comments. I guarantee they've all been properly dealt with. And there is only one small matter that we are discussing here today with my colleague Farhan, for which I thank him, and where we and Minister Stanjura match the details regarding the heavy instrument technology and its definition of the commission. As for the Deputys - political, non-political - I can only talk about my resort again. [[for]] I am 100% sure and maybe one of them will come and confirm it, from the three members of the Health Committee who sit here with the opposition, that my political deputy Jakub Dvořáček is at least as good as Vojtěchův's political deputy Mr Vrubel. And similarly, as with Professor Adámková, when they took turns on the speedy frequency within one year of four health ministers, Mr Vrubel, along with me and Professor Adámková, extended the law - you will remember that and we all participated in it - which helped to eliminate § 16, as well - and I thank all members of the Health Committee for that regardless of political affiliation - Mr Dvořáček is trying to stretch out and extend several legislations successfully, because it is expertly really on the level. I think the same about other political representatives at my department. On the other hand, the medical director at the Health Department - and you will remember - was Mr.Prymula during the year, then he became a minister in the short term, then there was Mr. Deputy Minister, I believe, Aleksi Šedo, replaced by Deputy Minister Černý and ended up with Deputy Minister Vašáková. [[to]] I, given that Prime Minister Babiš was an excellent personalist and Minister Vojtěch was, také, so I decided not to continue with this and I do not have a medical deputy, I reduced one deputy. [[That guy?]] He's not even the director of this department, and I run it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u258	And I'll ask Minister Stanjura for a de facto one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u259	I defend the law as a whole, so I will try to answer some of the questions that have been raised, I have so far forgotten the property tax from the ponds. I didn't discuss it with anyone, that's true. And it's the Motion of the Treasury, that's also true. And when they gave you the reasons, I think you'll understand. First on rhetorical questions, I'll answer her right away. Do you know what the national tax return on ponds is, pond taxes -- nationwide? [[unintelligible]] One million crowns. Answer how much the cost per employee in the government is on average salary, contributions, he needs computer technology, some office where he's heating up. One. The reason is very simple - a completely ineffective, completely ineffective tax. I'll explain, that wasn't suggested by the Department of Agriculture. I, when I check, but I look at how effective the Financial Administration is and how many people do what tax and so on and so on with the nationwide yield of one million crowns if we were to check every pond, whether or not fish farming is going on there, we may agree that the collection of this tax is completely unnecessary. Yes, I didn't talk to anybody about it, there are a lot of points, so I didn't discuss this detail with anyone, but I believe that no one will suggest that we maintain the tax with a national return of CZK 1 million because the state has lost it. It can't be done by one person who just rode and checked the ponds. To the highway stamp and to the price - it is quite well described in the explanatory report. By the way, even the subsidies are in the explanatory memorandum. For Mr Volný - I'm sorry, I'm not sending it by e-mail, it's in the explanatory memorandum, page 250, okay? I'm sorry, I didn't realize. So I don't think there's a need to e-mail it, we all have it in electronic form. If you look at the explanatory note to the highway sign, two thousand three hundred is the same real value as when it took fifteen hundred. Only if you calculate inflation over that long period of time, that's exactly what it's worth. So the real value of the stamp went up... I see I'm out of time, so I'm disciplined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u260	Well, I'm letting everyone in for, like, ten seconds, 'cause maybe it's better to finish it than roll it up and give it to each other. Mr Juchelka - downloads. Mrs Peštová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u261	Thank you. It'll be very quick, I don't even need two minutes. Minister, I have now looked at the settlement table for your comments, which you have made - essential - within the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. And out of those eight, five of them wrote you "unsubstantiated, conflict." So I'm kind of wondering how you found that match. But I'm not going to go into detail here right now, in any case, you said that apart from one conflict, you settled everything. The settlement table, which is the basis, says something else - eight contradictions, and there are five contradictions left to say, "unsubmitted, contradiction" and to let you know why it stays there - because within the settlement that took place, I mean the session, so you probably didn't show up, because it says that you probably didn't show up for some of the settlements that probably took place at the Ministry of Finance, which is why it remained in the table. So there's a contradiction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u262	Thank you. Minister Stanjura, so far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u263	I remember the questions that were raised here. One of you criticized - now I don't know, I'm sorry - the increased number of officials approved by the government. A few hours ago, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Dostálová, who commended the government for accepting those officials so that we could manage the National Recovery Plan. These are fixed-term places and are paid from the European Union. So just so we know when we're criticizing something. We, on the part of the ANO Group of Deputies, were first praised for the same step that we did well and then criticized that we did wrong. The way anyone communicates - that's a subjective impression, and we can lose it, and I'm not saying that everything... communication always improves. [[Is that okay?]] Here's the question, what did you do with those social partners? I don't know how you put it -- well, maybe we communicate well with them. Maybe it's the result of the miserable communication that Mr. Juchelka said he wasn't yelling at us, screaming at us, or banging... or whatever you used to do. [[I've been talking ……]] And I can confirm that, it's true, he's not yelling at us, he's not yelling at us - and we don't agree, please, we don't agree with that. Sometimes I think it's enough to normally talk to those who don't agree with you, and then there's no reason for anyone to yell at you, scream or bang you on the table. For me - not satisfied, in that moment it is settled, because it is not appropriate that everyone who writes so the petitioner agrees. I think it's crucial that the government voted. I think it's right, sometimes it's normal, authorities have a different perspective, politicians do political deals, nothing wrong with that. [[is not]] Many comments are dealt directly with by the government, one or the other member of the government will say - well, I agree with the majority opinion, downloading... and we are no longer writing it in the tables. When you get comments that don't agree with what you're proposing, you really can't accept them. That would make the recovery package look completely different if we complied with some of the comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u264	Thank you. Mrs Peštová, then Mr Vice Prime Minister Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u265	Thank you for your word. Minister, I've done a lot of these settlement tables, so I know... [[He's turning to the Treasury Secretary.]] Really, as Deputy... [[The Minister of Finance speaks outside the microphone.]] Oh, yeah, that's right, I'm sorry... so I know what individual unions and individual comment points can do, how they're looking for a match, when one wants to dump, another wants to burn, another wants something else, and you're looking for compromises. I didn't yell at them either, they always had a fight with each other, but anyway, when I read the essential comments that the individual ones put in there... I say, and it's crucial to me, whether it's the Chamber of Commerce or the Union of Industry, they're really of a fundamental nature, and I don't believe that this can be dealt with in a few days, because I know what kind of work it can do. And on the contrary, I appreciate the officials because they're going up from the officials and they're going up to the Deputy Chief of Staff, and now the Minister who's going to the government is going to get it, and I'm saying, I've been trying to make sure there's a maximum of five contradictions, because we really got the contradictions within that $2,000, $3,000, people really can't imagine what it's like to deal with, okay? I say, I respect them immensely. That's why I'm saying what you did to them because I don't believe it, I don't believe it. I don't believe that they would shut up and find, even among themselves, that they would find constructive debate in such a short time. I really don't believe that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u266	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Válek. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová - from 17 o'clock for family reasons; Prime Minister Fiala - from 17.30 to 19 for work reasons; and Minister Baxa - from 18.30 to 22 for work reasons. And now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to confirm the words of Minister Stanjura and Mrs Peštová, because the process, as she described, is what happens. It also took me months to sink deep enough into it to see how it actually works. And, of course, those career officials and professionals at the ministries know the process very well. And in our case, we downloaded the comments by e-mail, but they were already recorded. If you didn't believe me the way I believe you, I suppose you believe me, I might as well send you the e-mail, now I've checked. We stayed on one reminder that we would be dealing with, and that was VAT, where basically our view of the EU position was slightly different from that of the Ministry of Finance, or the Czech Statistical Office, and now we are trying to push it as far as possible to the side of medical Stanjura as I explained it, because we both think it would be amazing for Czech health care to get all medical resources into the lowest category. But we don't know if we're gonna make it with a heavy instrument. Today we know that we will manage it with all medical devices for vouchers, without a ZUMA voucher, everything, which I have already informed the Council of Providers. But that's how the health-care trial went, and I really guarantee it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u268	Thank you. And since we have exhausted all the factual points, I will ask Mr Hendrych for his contribution. So we are back in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u269	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been many arguments here today that have basically answered what I wanted to hear, and what I wanted to put in my questions, so I have modified my speech a little bit, not to say that it has reduced, but maybe it has modified in a slightly different direction than I originally intended. And basically, I want to focus on two areas. One is on the effective functioning of economic policy in the administration of today's government - I will get there shortly. And in the latter case, I'd like to focus on a little bit of micro-region like that, and that's essentially a reduction, virtually. adjustment of construction savings support. But first things first. I would be very interested in the Minister of Finance, but I might be interested in the Prime Minister's opinion or any other minister's opinion as to how one highly renowned Czech, virtually. Czech-American economist, Professor Švejnar, on his views on the consolidation package. I don't think I need to introduce him, Professor Švejnar. Just as I would like to say briefly that he is one of the most quoted economists in the Czech Republic, I have currently found on Google Scholar that he has some almost 12,000 quotes of his scientific work, he is one of the most sensitive ones, as I have already said, and I think there is no point in talking about other benefits. Perhaps I would remind you that he was recently proposed by the Chamber of Deputies of the President of the Republic for state honours, virtually. on the Medal of Merit and the plaintiff was none other than, the initiating agent, the plaintiff, none other than the Member for the TOP 09, Mr Miloš nový, who is also an economist and, on this basis, I assume Vice-President of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. As much as an introduction. And right now, I'd like to cover up some of Professor Švejnar's views here. He is relatively consistent in them, speaking the same language expert, for example for quite many years already in 2015, 2017, it can be traced from public sources, basically being critical to the functioning of the government in 1997 and 2021. And, in their opinion, a flawed economic policy that has caused economic crises with lasting effects. I wouldn't want to do this in detail, even if we could, of course, be able to do it sometime later, it's his opinion. I'm used to my previous work to source my arguments or questions, so somehow I don't just draw them out of some of my own considerations, but I refer ideally to some relevant sources and I think that Professor Švejnar is quite a relevant source in the field of economics, virtually. Macroeconomics. As much as I understand that this science is, let's say, a multiview or, perhaps, a multiparadigmatic one as the vast majority of social sciences, I'd be interested in an opinion. I will try, then, to the Minister, possibly someone else, to what Mr Švejnar says relatively in a recent interview for the Diary, but, as I said, these views are consistent in the long term and also in other media. So this paraphrase, if the government has had reforms in the program for more than a year, I would expect it to come up with a well-designed concept that will aim precisely at the essence of economic policy. In order to increase GDP, therefore, living standards and instead, current proposals are aimed only at economic policy instruments, budget deficits and debt reduction. These tools should be used skillfully by the State to achieve an increase in the standard of living of the population. Another statement is that it is surprising that the attention of the professional public is not attracted to a decline in GDP. The Czech Republic is one of the few countries that passed through the economic recession in the second half of last year and we are basically in it, virtually. in stagnation probably also at present. Our GDP is essentially stagnating. And another statement from Professor Švejnar. Most large countries, for example, got out of debt after World War II, not because of its substantial reductions, but rather because of rapid GDP growth. And that's the key. Debt is a debt of productive GDP, so even if we do not increase debt, the debt ratio is rising. So, based on what the expert says, I really do not think very much that the current consolidation package should increase GDP, virtually. He should share in raising the standard of living - perhaps someone here will give me some kind of expert opinion. And I'd just mention here that the Treasury Department doesn't think so, either, the middleman of the so-called RIA. She's already been mentioned here by the president of our club, Alena Schillerová, and I'm willing to basically quote him back on what the Treasury says about the government package. The costs of the government package include a slowdown or even a fall in GDP, unemployment growth and negative social impacts, as well as the risk of losing credibility. So much for the first part of what I was gonna say. And now for the other one. It wasn't mentioned here, even if it was part of it. The government, in essence, aims by one of its measures to reduce the support of building savings from the current CZK 2 000 per year at a maximum of CZK 20,000. It's down to 50 percent, which means a thousand crowns tops. And they say that it's basically a surviving instrument that basically doesn't fulfill its original function anymore, which, by the way, started some 30 years ago, or pretty much exactly 30 years ago in 1993. And there's basically a reason not to support this instrument too much. I know that there have been proposals that are not on the table at the moment, that the building savings have basically ceased to support completely, that does not happen, but it is decreasing to 50 percent. And one of the main arguments is why this instrument should basically be neglected, that perhaps some kind of overwhelming majority of those Czech savers or those who are saving up in this way for housing, essentially not using it for housing and using it for completely different purposes, which, with the original intention that it actually serves for housing or for building purposes, does not actually sort of crowd out anymore. I found a survey that was made by the Czech Building Savings Agency at IBRS, which shows that it is actually a little bit 50-50, or respectively. The survey says that 60 percent of people are actually using the funds for housing and only some 40 or over 40 percent aren't. I would understand that it should not be through the state budget, virtually. through a taxpayer to subsidize savings that are not assigned to housing. [[17.50 hours]] I understand that. That makes sense. We had a debate about who's contributing to the state budget here, by the way, yesterday. But I am interested, and perhaps the Minister of Finance might have a relevant answer to that, because I have read, confirmed it to me, or disproved that in 2013, when he was part of the then Nečasův government, as well as Prime Minister Fiala, he was already prepared to propose the coalition that the building savings would be maintained, respectively. There may have been some thought that the aid would have been increased, but that it would have been really purposefully linked to housing, to nothing else. Denial. If this guy collected the money and didn't use it for housing or reconstruction, he wouldn't get a public contribution. I've read this. Perhaps it would be good for someone to answer that question, whether it is really true or not. It ended with it falling under the table because Nečasův' government ended in 2013 and it was said that it hadn't made it. However, I consider such an adjustment to be very reasonable, very clever, so that the state contribution is actually granted further in the full amount of CZK 2000 per year. I even think it could be increased, but only for housing purposes, if I say so briefly. Of course, it's wrong to use the funds to buy, I don't know, anything else, a car, etc. I wonder if you really had that kind of consideration here in discussing this particular matter, and if there isn't, in fact, any possibility that you would still change your mind on this matter until the definitive approval of this law. That's all on my part, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u270	Thank you, and I will now ask for a factual remark from Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u271	The renowned economists who help us in NERV have recommended that we cancel completely. The reasons here were described that it didn't work out, or partly doesn't do it. A much more accurate name is saving with a state contribution than building savings. Anyway, now if I wanted to be ironic, it's, I'd say, another proof of our miserable communication. We signed the memorandum, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment, all the construction savings banks, helping us with the energy transformation of households. He knows that there will be a thousand CZK contribution, he will help every client, every citizen who wants to invest in reducing the energy consumption of his housing, to settle the subsidy or credit, to advise him, to give him a list, all at the cost of building savings banks. We are promising that this event will be successful, that households will really reduce their consumption, and therefore energy payments, so in this case, when we are agreed with the whole sector, the solution is accepted, we have found new uses, we will still have to adjust it legislatively so that construction savings can not only make energy savings, they can today, if they are construction modifications, but also without construction adjustments to provide loans for it. So in this case, we agreed, we got a match, we got a memorandum, so I don't see any contradiction with those who run the system for years. I think it's such a win-win solution, the system will work, it will bring new benefits for citizens, and at the same time it will save two billion a year on the part of the state budget. If we purposefully tie this up, we still cannot intervene in the existing treaties, and this control would be extremely demanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u272	Thank you. Mr Hendrych also wants to respond to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u273	Thank you, Minister. I forgot to say that in my speech. I know about it, I've read it in detail, so I'm aware that this new instrument is basically increasing to this, and I appreciate it. This is a thing that is probably worth appreciating, and thank you for supplementing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u274	Thank you. President Bernard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To Mr. Hendrych. I had exactly the same concerns through you, Mr President. I've really been dealing with those savings banks. I can confirm everything the Minister said. I'm not gonna repeat this for nothing. I want one thing. One more is valuable to us in the area of building savings, and this is a credit budget that we have every year from building savings banks, which is around CZK 45 billion a year, and I can actually confirm here that this will also be preserved, because they guarantee that when the system in the form presented here by Minister Stanjura, we will update the 45 billion they will be able to give again on those loans. But I was really worried about you, and we were thinking in the same direction, and I'm glad it turned out that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u276	Thank you. Member Jiří Mašek. So far the final de facto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u277	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to ask a question with some humility to the Minister of Finance. Minister, I was impressed by your statement that the tax on the ponds, the real estate tax, that it amounts to a million crowns a year, and that it is below the cost that would have been incurred with their control, etc. I just took the calculator, I'm a friend of numbers, I counted it four times, and I can't be wrong. I get 100-200 million a year. So this item, if you could verify it, but it shouldn't be complete change. [[Minister Stanjura's reaction from the table.]] I would be, I'm sorry ahead, but for me a million versus maybe 200 is really different, so that's where I'd like to get it straightened out. But if I'm wrong, I'm sorry in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u278	Thank you. Since they were all effectively exhausted, I will now ask not Mr Brabec, but he has agreed to switch with Mr Zlínský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u279	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to thank Mr Brabco and Mrs Maříková for allowing me to switch, because unfortunately I have to leave quickly because I have a medical examination tomorrow. Thank them again. I will talk about the relationship between the consolidation package and science. The five-coal government consolidation package proposes limiting investment in science and research. Limiting investment in science may have some negative effects. Science is the driving force behind innovation, which is the basis of technological progress of previous, current and future companies. The development and domination of Western societies has always been based on the technological superiority that has been driven and supported by scientific research and its transformation into a rapid growth of technological innovation. Limiting investment in science can hinder the emergence of new major discoveries and thus the development of new technologies. New technologies are essential to ensure economic growth and thus the well-being of the population. New technologies are needed in these fields. It's a field that doesn't cover everything. It's something I'm interested in and I've been thinking about. So clearly what comes to mind each of us is that we need to discover and develop a new way, a clean way of generating energy. And the important thing is also energy storage, which we don't have a proper solution either. What's my favorite is space research. I think it is necessary to expand into space, that humanity must expand into space, even because there are many elements of precious metals in the universe that we will need, which we can quickly exhaust. It is also robotics, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, where I would mention mainly the production of new antimicrobial, antiviral substances, oncological therapists and therapists for neurodegenerative diseases. They and our scientists are working on this. I have a family member working on it. Innovation and new technologies lead to new sectors that can generate new jobs. Limiting investment in science can also reduce economic potential due to a lack of technological innovation, thereby reducing our company's competitiveness in relation to other progressive economies. It can also lead to an exodus of talented scientists who will seek better funding and support for their research projects in these countries, on which we will then become completely dependent both economically and ultimately in power. [[18.00 hours]] Investments in science not only support research but also enable the education of young scientists. Limiting investment could lead to a lack of funding for scholarships, grants and other support programmes for researchers. Even in my experience, I can confirm that this is happening, that, in fact, those young scientists, their wages are being funded from those grants. Otherwise, if it wasn't, they'd be in danger of leaving otherwise, because their income from that doctoral study is pretty crappy. This could have a long-term negative impact on the education of scientific staff. Continuity in the transfer of knowledge and experience between older and younger generations of scientists may be interrupted. In my opinion, we will need a lot of scientists and technicians in the event of the return of the technologies introduced to produce the necessary products for the operation of our company in our territory after the expected start of deglobalization. We can already see it in the chips, we can see it in the medications, and there will certainly be other products and products that need to be deglobalized and transferred to Europe, or to our territory, which would be the best. But, of course, it will be completely at a new technological level. There is talk of Industry 4.0, which will be driven by robotics and artificial intelligence. It follows that our company may be significantly lagging behind other companies in the field of scientific research and technological development. This may result not only in reduced competitiveness, but it may even lead to a threat to our safety. At present, the following disciplines have such power: artificial intelligence, biotechnology and nanotechnology, which can promote and grow each other and can have a similar effect as it had gunpowder. To bring it back to life, my performance, I'll tell you something about how gunpowder appeared. Interestingly, neither the Říman nor the Řek discovered gunpowder, but it appeared in China around the ninth to tenth century. It was discovered by local wise men who were trying to find the stone of the wise men or the elixir of life. So it was some sort of basic research of theirs, and based on this research, which, of course, didn't lead to success, but based on that, they discovered gunpowder, which consists of ice, potassium nitrate, sulphur and charcoal, because the ice is potassium nitrate. Interestingly, the Číňan have imposed an embargo on this knowledge of how the gunpowder is developing, because they have discovered that it is a pretty effective weapon and have even developed such things as grenades and cannons, mines, rockets. But their effectiveness was not enough to stop the Mongolian invasion. And I would like to mention, precisely, that thanks to the Mongolian invasion, these products have gotten through; gunpowder, grenades and cannons both to the Middle East and then to Europe. And there was an incredible acceleration, because Europe was shattered into small states that fought each other and, of course, fought with Ottoman Turkey, and there was an incredible acceleration, and actually the one who invented gunpowder was finally this powder and the products that followed, that is, it was effective rifles and cannons, so it was essentially subjected. So it's clear that these technologies have huge implications for geopolitics and the overall arrangement of the world. Overall, limiting investment in science has a broad, harmful impact on society, poses a risk of reducing innovation, economic growth, economic levels, competitiveness, and unfortunately also the safety of our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u280	Thank you, too. And now it's Mr Brabec's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u281	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, I see no one, sorry, sorry. [[Mr Brabec looks at the government benches]] I'm out of line with the Minister of Health here. Don't take it personally, Minister. I'm sorry. [[Minister Wark off the microphone: I don't take it personally.]] I am glad that I have allowed my colleague Zlínský to expand our horizons on gunpowder and so I will try to get back to the package. I also belong to those Members who have quite fundamentally rewritten their speeches several times, because I really wanted to make it clear, and I told Prime Minister Fial and Minister Stanjur a few minutes ago that they might appreciate and hope that they appreciate and appreciate that this is not really obstruction, that the overwhelming majority, I dare say that all these speeches are about the proposed package, that we are not reading any more or less amusing publications here, as we have witnessed in recent election periods. And I think that's right. And since the material is complex and has, of course, huge effects on millions of people, it's logical that we're basically all of us, and that we don't want to do that in a couple of hours. I don't think anyone can say, and it is, I think, a message for the viewers who are looking at it, if there are any such braves left, if it's being broadcast at all, or for some journalists, that this really obstruction doesn't look like it if they were thinking about using the name again. So I will focus on the main points that have actually been commented here several times, many times, and I too am the one who will confirm here that, in my opinion, this is not some consolidation package. It's a really clean tax package or a bag or a bag or a purse or something. It is really very interesting, and our club president, Mrs. Alena Schillerová's shadow secretary of finance, spoke about it, among other things, that it is really interesting that the contradiction that occurred during the presentation of the consolidation package or the tax package, when there really was a very different number on the screen or on the screen than that which representatives of the five-calice thus famously commented. That means it should have been different. It was supposed to be that the savings would prevail and not that, in the end, the number would literally be chased primarily for tax increases, even for those who can't defend themselves most of the time. In other words, at the beginning there was some idea that the state, the government would show how it would start with it and then it would come and say, "Look, we did it, and now we are humbly asking you to participate. But the truth is the other way around. So first, we're going to go to those who pay it in the finals, which is the taxpayer, because somehow we're going to get it out of them, so that's what you think, and then maybe, maybe, we'll also get some savings out of us. And when we look at the numbers, it's clear that a number of them are literally sucked out of their fingers. Nor can the Minister of Finance, who unfortunately is not here again, be surprised that we do not have that trust. We do not have it in the numbers because we have experienced many of us simply a situation where we have asked many times about the various figures, the literally housenumer that appeared in this year's budget, and the reality clearly shows us that we were right about the doubts. We've never actually been answered our questions, it's literally been silenced. I'm just going to remind you of the 50 billion crowns of impossible, non-existent Modernization Fund, which were supposed to come into the budget, and they won't, of course, come from nowhere to come. And then you can't be surprised, co-workers, colleagues or members of the government, Minister of Finance, that trust is not there in those figures, we can imagine, of course, and we have also been in that government for some time, that it is not possible to estimate everything accurately. [[18.10 hours]] Of course, this life is taking a little different ways than planning, but it is not possible to literally lie down or cheat on numbers that are, of course, materially large, for me tens of billions is already an amount that is very material and very important. And it's not just these 50 billion, it's obviously another amount - a completely over-shot windfall tax or that there's no money for extraordinary pension valorization and so on, and so on. We would never really dare to do that in our government to plan and present this. And it is logical that that trust will then fade away, and it is logical that that trust is then not even in the other material that the government is presenting. And that's all the more logical when we actually see numbers that don't really make us believe that they could be real. I do not want to say for myself, and not only for myself, but I dare say that for most of my colleagues in the YES movement, I do not want to say for all of them, but I think that for all of them, I can say that I am simply in principle opposed to the way that tax changes are being set or proposed in this package right now, because it is simply a carpet raid on the vast majority of taxpayers. And it has already been said here several times, it is in complete contradiction with the rhetoric mainly from the ODS. Not only a few years ago, but literally a few months ago. Thus, even when it was known that there was a conflict in Ukraine, that there was an energy crisis, yet stubbornly and convincingly at that time, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and others said - well, that is, through it the train does not go, we will not increase taxes. And boom! It's here, not only do taxes propose to increase, but they propose to increase really to the extent of incredible, and it becomes the main source of the money at that point. Because if we look at the other sources, they're really in the airlocks. Because while it's pretty clear with those taxes, and of course, the question is, what's the yield going to be in the finals, but there's a way to pass it on to the taxpayers and think that someone's gonna pay it off, so for the other things, especially the popular subsidies, it's a lot more complicated there. And that's another reason why I don't have the complete confidence in this package, even if I have a beautiful connection with it in principle, but I don't even agree with it from the point of view of the solution. But even if I did, of course, there's a whole series of questions opening up here. If it is mentioned here that in this so-called subsidy business, it is also another beautiful term, the subsidy business is for me mainly a matter of those consulting companies, which, however, mostly often advises municipalities, regions or firms, that is the subsidy business, but here it has been made pejoratively, that it will save the famous 54 billion, and many of you have already discussed it. But for me, with the experience of the $50 billion from the modernization fund, that's the famous morgue no one's ever seen, so this is another $54 billion, another morgue that may be partially seen, but the question is, will she see the licking sticks in the finals? And there, of course, it is mainly the MIT and the famous amount, i.e. the crucial amount, which should be about 20 billion crowns, which will thus be saved somehow. But here they are in principle, the Vice-President Karel Havlíček has already mentioned it, there are basically three possibilities. So this is the payment for renewable energy sources or the charge for renewable energy sources. So either it stays on the shoulders of the state, but then nothing will be saved, or it will go back to the consumers, which is obviously politically very difficult for the five-wheelers, because then you have to tell these people that you're going to cost them even more energy, or it's probably not going to pay off to the investors, which is a way that is tempting, probably attractive from a PR point of view, but we who have also dealt with this for quite a long time, so we just know that it's going to be easy to say, but it's going to be very difficult to do, because it's going to be thousands of courts with a very unclear outcome, or I almost think that with a clear result that won't be in favour of the state. That means, that's exactly what we're going to say here -- so, we're going to pick up some 54 billion here, see, citizens, taxpayers, voters, how easy it is. How easy it is, why they haven't done this to you in front of us. - Well, they did it, but they did it where it was real. But they didn't just do it so that we could just, somewhere around here, throw it on the set, and then find out it wasn't real. So when you take apart the subsidies, you're really going to find that either the subsidies or the slimming are literally floating on the water or hanging in the air, or at your discretion, where it's supposed to hang, but it's definitely not realistic. The amount is fundamentally not realistic, and tens of billions are being faked. That means that just like we've been through with the budget, there might be some yield or some result, but it's definitely not in the order that we're talking about here. Or, where the so-called subsidies are cut off, on the other hand, it will have some specific impact, either very negative on cities, municipalities and so on, or simply from the point of view of road construction, these are issues around the MMR or the Ministry of Transport, or where the so-called subsidies are cut off famously and it is shown as a result, so on the other hand, credit is taken. This is simply unbelievable, because interest is still going to be paid for the loan, and that is probably what we have been dealing with on the budget committee, and by coincidence today we have also dealt with it at the Council of the State Environmental Fund, this is the loan through the European Investment Bank, where, of course, the interest is - this is the so-called advantageous prognosis rate, which today is estimated to be up to 4.5 percent of PH, so, of course, over that time, over the 30 years, it is doing tens of billions of crowns on those interest rates. So this is the so-called great result that looks good on the paper, which means we're gonna cut off your subsidies and everyone sees behind it, or the five-calice wants her voter to see the rich moguls that literally leak the subsidies, and suddenly the state is gonna cut them off and everything's gonna be flooded with the sun. But then when you go into those intestines, and I understand that it's not always pleasant to go through it in those intestines, you'll find that - I wanted to watch my colleague Julek Špičák, a gastroenterologist, but he's not here, so I'll forgive the remark, so you'll find it's not that simple or fragrant at all. And that the ant work there, so that the amount would be realistic, was simply not done. Because I am absolutely convinced that these amounts are not real. Another significant part, even psychologically, and it has already been said here several times, is the so-called slimming of the state, which is a subject which, of course, is - this term is old, how old the world is, I think in terms of how old the office is. Because those slimmers - I'm not exactly the right person to talk about slimming, even though I've been trying all this time to slim down by at least 10 kilos, but I think while I didn't do it on my body, I did it in that office. So I know what I'm talking about. And here it is again about your famous signals, because really, if we want someone to tear their mouths off, we have to start with each other. Yes, somewhere around here - I've just read an interview from one of the five-wheelers who says, "Well, this is where you keep talking about slimming the three ministries, but it's not gonna save us. - But that's exactly it, that's the psychology, that's just that this is exactly the signal. That's exactly the signal for those people, because they understand that. And that's not about limiting the number of teachers or cops or other things. I think we know that if someone says they're going to slim down the government, then everyone, or a whole bunch of citizens, doesn't imagine these civil servants, which means teachers, cops, firefighters, and so on. [[18.20 hours]] He imagines the "officials" that, of course, have a negative impact on them, because then they feel that the officials want to cut everyone, but they don't deserve it. I think in a number of cases, they feel right. Because we've been there, too, I say, eight years I've been in that ministry, and I've been in a situation where I've just clearly gotten ten percent down and we've had to deal with it. So I'm not just saying that from some experience I've just read in books. But this is exactly when the citizen sees three ministries joining with everything that's connected to it, he can't necessarily believe it's the state, the government, he's serious about the slimming. Because I think that you're going to see these people, too, and there's no way that we're going to meet completely different people. It just bothers those people. If it doesn't really bother your constituents, then I'm surprised, because this is exactly what papalism is. It's also - there's been a lot of talk about it here too - about the so-called cadre. Now that I see the situation, of course, as the political deputy and the advisors get back on track... I'm not saying that in all the resorts, I'm sure there are resorts that didn't do it, but we're all judging it from somewhere in that department of ours. I'm really sorry to see those people I'm convinced were apolitical, but quality, so they have to leave because there are people coming in with a party book. I never had that criterion in the ministry. I didn't take people for yes. He even said that being in YES was basically blacklisted for ministers, for those people who applied for those places. That means it was a downside. It wasn't an advantage, it wasn't neutral, it was a net disadvantage. We just never wanted to play this game. Attention, I'm not saying that a party book person or a card person doesn't have to be an expert. Yeah, that's possible, too. But it bothers me that I actually feel that somewhere, it's the main criterion, and that's just wrong. That's just wrong! That is, when I look at the package, for me the tax package, I see, in terms of income, a clear appetite for the state, how to touch taxpayers' money in different categories and in carpets. Again, I am saying completely contrary to what has been said to the voters and to us, just to everyone, that this is some kind of holy or sacred cow that this government will not touch, even in a situation where it already knew that these things are evolving somehow. So this is what we call certain. On the other hand, I see there not to say, of course, a whole series of ideas - I call it an idea - how to get the money somewhere further. But it's not entirely certain there. It's like we're supposed to do something about it and see what happens. Of course, as the state budget has now developed, the last few months - I feel that it has been seen today that both Prime Minister Fiala and the Minister of Finance have come to life from the latest figures, that the deficit has decreased somewhat - well, I don't quite think that it is so-called won. But we'll see that for sure in the next few months. I look forward to the debate on the budget committee on Tuesday, because I really wanted to ask the Minister of Finance Stanjura about a number of things in the last few months, but I just didn't have a chance, because he just didn't answer the questions I had. So now I'm happy to have the opportunity to ask the Committee on Budgets. But this is the key thing, and that's the basic reason for me not to believe the package. I repeat - now here is the Minister of Finance. Even if I were consistent with this, politically speaking, that this is a way of healing, in fundamental, carpeting, raising taxes for me, with the major effects on millions of people in this situation - and I don't have to deal with it - so, even if I had this line beautifully, I believe that this is the way, I just can't, unfortunately, out of my experience of building a state budget at least this year trust those numbers. I have a problem with that. So allow me to conclude briefly with my assessment of some of the proposals in your package. First things first. No, definitely not. Well, not at all. Oh, my God, what is this crap? You're crazy. Who thought of that? I think this might be, but it needs to be adjusted. I don't think the package is healthy, but it's annoying. It's like five dogs and a cat making a cake and putting in everything that looks quite tempting at first sight, but it's probably not going to make people feel good together. I'm stressing not to the government, but I'm just more of a citizen here. So I'd say pack up the package, try again and better, or you'd better not cook any more together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u282	Thank you. Now it is Mrs Maříková's turn. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u283	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I can't tell the government, my esteemed colleagues, my colleagues and my two masters - because two ministers are not the whole government. We are presented with a consolidation package to improve the balance of the state budget. However, it will result in an increase in life for all citizens. The government here is presenting us with a consolidation package called recovery. But if state finances didn't get sick because of this government's incompetence and futility, because it blew them up, they wouldn't have to be treated. However, he is treated and treated and is not a doctor. The chief physician, Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, has already proved that this is not his area of expertise when drawing up the state budget. Unfortunately, not admit it and wrap it up. Unfortunately, this is also the opinion of many renowned economists. Instead of being judgmental, this government is showing such a great deal that even the Kecal of the prodaný nevěsta is a loser against her. Prime Minister Petr Fiala promised that he would not raise taxes, that he would not shift the retirement age and reduce pension valorisation, promising that the state would not indebt. I could go on. He's doing the exact opposite and total opposite in absolutely fundamental matters. Five-calice before the House elections in 2021 on billboards promised not to raise taxes. No tax increases, the state must save on itself, not on people, for example on the social network KDU-ČSL 20 May 2021. She added to her contribution that the Czech Republic must return to the tradition of responsible management and balanced budgets. We will tighten budgetary rules, and the budget will no longer be a tearing calendar that the government does not take seriously. We're gonna put a stop to the government spending increase, it was in the people's contribution. The ODS expressed itself similarly. It is better for society, the economy and the state when money is available to people and companies. We believe that it is people and companies who know best how to spend their money that announced on May 10, 2022 ODS on Facebook. In addition, Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself on the show last October He said directly that his government would not increase taxes on households. We're not raising taxes, period. He emphasized that on the show. At the beginning of 2021, the current Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura stressed on the social network that the idea of increasing real estate tax is really dangerous. I don't see why the state should punish someone for getting a place. In addition, higher taxation is reflected in the rental price, and the only people who pay for it are tenants. That's not the way to go. On the contrary, we want digitization, simplification of building procedures and low taxes. [[18.30 hours]] In November last year, Prime Minister Petr Fiala promised: We are not going to raise taxes, with the only exception that the tax on extraordinary profits will be imposed on energy, refineries and banks. Thus, after a few months, the government turned around as a banner and announced, through a consolidation package, an increase in all direct taxes, such as corporate income tax and part of natural persons, property tax or social insurance trade tax and more. But the government, announcing the consolidation package, waited a long time for the presidential election to take place, and to the last moment, it lied to the entire nation. And as soon as their horse settled on the Castle, where are the promises she tricked not only her constituents, but the entire nation. After the announcement of the so-called consolidation package, Prime Minister Fiala justified himself from his lies. We promised not to increase the overall tax burden, and we won't. I'm not aware of any promise I haven't kept, but circumstances have changed. When we joined the government, no one expected a war in Ukraine that would hit our economy in such a fatal way, the Prime Minister answered the question of the moderator whether it would be wise to apologize to the public for violating the electoral promise. We do what we promised, we do not increase the overall tax burden, Petr Fiala added. Here you can see how promises to Prime Minister Petr Fiala mean nothing at all. The Minister of Justice Blažek, who explained how it was with unfulfilled pre-election promises, added an even greater crown. Fiala didn't lie, he just said something he couldn't do, explained Minister Blažek. Then what is it when you say something you can't do? That's a lie for me. Even better argument for the misleading election advertising of five-wheelers was made by Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Our pre-election tax password was just a billboard shortcut. I wonder what the Minister's excuse is for coming up with a double tax increase on real estate in spite of his promises. Would the Minister suddenly want to punish someone for getting a place to live and not mind paying the tenants for it? That's a hell of a big turn. You remember the five-wheel drive pre-election promise: We will make life easier for businessmen and small and medium-sized companies and create an attractive environment for key partners. In addition to employees, higher taxes will also affect legal persons, in addition to some there is an increase in income, from 19 percent to 21. (?) In addition, the contribution of the CFI will be increased, between 2024 and 2026 the minimum assessment basis for insurance premiums for self-employed persons should be increased from 25 to 40 per cent of the average wage. The changes brought by the package affect the area of tax, budgetary, social security, transport and many others, and affect defenceless citizens. Whoever doesn't touch, however, are multinational corporations. 350 billion goes abroad, and the government watches it quietly. It is time for large corporations to share a fair share in the operation of this state. But this government, in order not to wrong it, even the previous ones, defends more foreign interests than the citizens of the Czech Republic. The defenseless citizens who are deep in their wallet will be flattered by the government, but we will tiptoe around foreign giants. Let's take a look at the government's programming statement and the changes from the original to this revised so that it quickly corresponds with the government's consolidation package and pension reform. Let me just point out that none of the post-November governments have changed their programming statements during their reign. In the original program statement of January 2022, the five-wheelers promised that the years that the student spent studying would count on his retirement. And what didn't happen? This promise from the revised programming statement is gone. In practice, this means that those who have studied after 2009 or are studying now will not have this study counted as a substitute period for retirement. In the original programming statement, the five koalice also promised to support part-time contributions by reducing social security contributions. I quote: The conditions for tax discounts and deductions will be set with reasonable marginal tax rates. And what happened? The sentence on tax discounts is removed from the revised programme statement, on the contrary, in the consolidation package tax exemptions such as the reduction of tax on the wife, the abolition of the so-called kindergarten tax, the abolition of the student tax discount, the abolition of the exemption of non-cash benefits for employees. The government's austerity measures will be socially sensitive in particular with regard to education, health, social welfare priorities and in order to maintain the existing pension valorisation mechanism, it promised five koalices in the original programme. But in the new version of the programme statement, there is no mention of pension valorization. Why do you think? It wouldn't fit the government's pension reform. In fact, pensions should be revalued by a third of the growth in real wages, while so far it has been by half. And it's worth mentioning, remember when Prime Minister Petr Fiala, on November 11, 2022, said in the media that the retirement age would not change or pension valorisation? Well, that was another lie. The duration of the average pension will be 21.5 years and retirement will be shifted each year according to the average life expectancy. The Prime Minister claims that we simply cannot live on debt, which I think we can agree with, but at the same time this government is indebting us record. The Czech Republic is leading the rankings of the countries of the European Union, which are the fastest indebted. They were saving up elsewhere, and what was our government doing? She was throwing it away. How about an expense audit? The government hasn't done it yet. It would be worth seeing where the funds rolled. To control extreme defense and support expenditure for Ukraine, which is one of the most corrupt countries, and I suppose no one even knows where the funds we sent in and the weapons have ended. This government received the worst rating from Czech residents from the cabinet of Petr Nečas. People don't believe her, and instead of wrapting it up, they're taking steps that don't bring anything to anybody, they're just raising taxes. And with how they manage and what they choose, they can be assumed to be out there again, making excuses for the war in Ukraine. Not only is this government antisocial and inhospitable, but she is mainly a liar and her chief, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who is always saying something different, if necessary, nor will she admit that they lied not only in the election campaign, but they lie until the last moment. A promise not only he, but the whole five-caliber gave to the citizens. They only take it as a slap in the water. Any man of judgment, if he saw the disastrous consequences and the inability to act, would wrap it up. But this government is probably going to stop at nothing, and it's going to put our citizens' security at risk. Because this has nothing to do with the love of its country and its citizens. But maybe if it were Ukraine, the government would approach a little differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u284	Thank you, too. And now it is Mr Zborovský's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u285	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we can look at the consolidation package more closely, but it is certain that without the reform of public finances, our state can find itself in a very difficult situation in a few years. I'm gonna try to be factual and not just not react emotionally based on impressions. Therefore, allow me to mention a few points on why I think it is necessary for us to approve the proposed consolidation package. Firstly, the cost of debt servicing. Of course, many different indicators such as the absolute amount of debt, the level of debt, and so on can be mentioned. But the most important thing is the real impact of our debt on the state budget, in other words, what we all have to pay each year as interest on state debt. In the long term, this interest was around CZK 40 billion a year, but with a rocket-growing debt, interest on it is also rising. [[18.40 hours]] If this year's interest cost is about CZK 70 billion, this amount will reach CZK 90 billion next year. That is why it is necessary to start doing something about the country's debt. Second, the debt brake. If we continue with the annual 100-billion-dollar debt, it will only be a matter of time before we reach the so-called debt brake, a situation where the debt-to-GDP ratio reaches 55 percent. We are currently moving to about 45 percent. If we reached the 55 per cent limit, the current proposed cuts and tax increases would only be a weak decoy of what we would have to do. However, our goal should not be to try to achieve a debt level of 55 per cent, but not to go near that threshold and to start reducing current debt as far as possible. Third - rating of the Czech Republic. As debt increases, the probability of a deterioration in the rating of the Czech Republic also increases. This is one of the basic factors that determines at what interest our state borrows funds on the financial markets. It must also be borne in mind that our small open economy, which is outside the euro area, is viewed differently than Germany or France. Credit rating agencies and financial markets will not be so lenient in the event of further rapid debt. Any deterioration of the nominal interest for which the Czech Republic borrows would quickly start to manifest itself in the cost of debt service. Fourth - inflation. I now consider inflation to be the biggest problem facing the Czech economy and the Czech society. I don't want to concern myself with the extent to which this or that government is responsible for current inflation, let each of us draw a picture of ourselves. However, the fact is that the austerity package, which will help to tame the state budget deficit, is certainly a fiscally restrictive instrument that acts counter-inflationaryly. Fifth - sustainability of public services. If we want to maintain the level of public services that we are used to, the austerity package and, by extension, the deficit reduction is absolutely necessary. The question is not whether unpopular steps need to be taken in the form of cuts in government expenditure and increases in the revenue of the state, but when to take these steps. The fact is, the sooner we get to these unpopular steps, the less painful they will be. If we were not doing anything, we would still have to do the austerity package in the future with the difference that it would have to be much harder and with a significant impact on the level of public services. Sixth - investor confidence. The austerity package is crucial for restoring investor confidence. If we reduce state budget deficits, the country will be more attractive for both domestic and foreign investors, which can lead to increased investment and support for economic growth. Seventh - credibility on the international stage. Saving measures send out a clear signal that the government is aware of the responsibility for the Czech Republic's management. When a country shows its capacity to address debt problems, it strengthens its credibility on the international stage and increases its position within the European Union and in the world. And finally, the final point for the eighth - future generations. And that may be the most important thing, because it needs to be realized that every loan, every debt that we now create and which does not have an investment character, is merely an artificial increase in our current standard of living at the expense of the standard of living of our children and grandchildren. It is up to us how much we will burden the future generation and how much problems it will have to solve for us. The austerity package, it will never be popular, it will not bring political points to government parties, but it is something that is responsible for future generations. If we don't do it, I'm afraid another government won't find the courage to do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u286	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Peštová is registered. Please. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u287	Thank you for the floor. I'll be short again. I thank Mr. or my predecessor for a lovely speech. If I were as gloating as Mr. Kučera, I'd tell you, we're saying it down here, but I won't, I won't, I won't. Because I think it's really a person when he prepares, when he prepares the speech in writing, then it has a completely different level. But what would I be interested in? I know I might shoot into your ranks now that you've described everything beautifully here, I'm saying I'm not an expert on economics like you. What do you think of the inflation clause, the valorization of church restitutions? I know, it's in your ranks. She'd help us, too, wouldn't she? How much do you think we'd be down by?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u288	Thank you for keeping time. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Berkovc, who is another duly enrolled in the debate, I shall make an apology. Mr Šimek David has apologized since 18.30 for working reasons. And now, please, Mr Berkovec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant summer late afternoon. In my paper I would very much like to devote myself to what concerns me, what I have been doing my whole life, because I am a trained and educated polygrapher and then a journalist, and that is an increase in VAT for the periodic press. I used public resources in my materials, such as quotes from Hospodářské noviny, MediaGuru server, quotes from the Association of Online Publishers, the Union of Publishers of the Czech Republic, citations and materials of European agencies, newspaper publishers and magazines EMMA and ENPA and others, as well as surveys by STEM/MARK. New VAT for periodical printing, then. VAT adjustments for printed matter should bring up to 200 million Czech crowns to the state budget. But as we know, and the polls confirm, the news market is dropping. In March and May, it decreased by 14 percent year on year. The volume of sales from the sales of newspapers on the Czech market is estimated to be at around CZK 2.5 billion per year based on the development of their sold cargo currently according to audits. It follows that every day 360 000 pieces of newspapers were sold on average at an average selling price of 24 Czech crowns. The total sales cost of newspapers is gradually decreasing each year, i.e. by between 10 and 16 per cent on average. 16 percent, of course, was in covid. The sales of newspapers are falling so much, but not at the same rate as the costs sold. Publishers may, by increasing the sales price - i.e. the sales price has increased twice in the last 12 months for newspapers - affect that the impact on sales is lower despite the decrease in total sales. If a newspaper were to be transferred to the basic proposed rate of 21 percent VAT, which is more than twice as much as today, then according to the gross calculation, the revenue for the state would increase by CZK 275 million at the current cost and sales price. That is, of course, assuming the sales results that the newspapers are now achieving. But it is precisely the annual decline that is estimated to be 14 percent year on year at this time, which reduces the contribution from increased VAT to approximately CZK 236 million. For the total revenues of the proposed consolidation package, which are planned for the years 2024 and 2025 in the amount of some CZK 69.2 billion, this is not an entirely significant contribution. But publishers also estimate that an increase in VAT will have to be reflected in an increase in the sales price by some 2 to 3 Czech crowns and at the same time expect a decline in the market even higher, i.e. 15 to 20 percent. [[18.50 hours]] In this case, with the average increase in the sales price of the newspaper by two crowns and their decrease in the sold cargo, and here I am holding the worse option, i.e. by 20 percent, the return on increased VAT is reduced by 36 million crowns compared to the original plan. On the contrary, magazines are to remain at a reduced 12% VAT rate, but this is a two percentage points increase compared to the current situation. The estimated volume of sales from the sale of magazines at the level of CZK 2 billion per year is an increase in VAT revenue by 40 million. At the same time, the government intends to apply a zero rate to books, so from the point of view of the state budget contributions, it is necessary to expect a decline compared to the current situation - now 10 percent VAT. The Union of Publishers stated that changes in VAT on printed matter are estimated by the Ministry of Finance to bring an increase of CZK 160-200 million. The government's proposal to convert newspapers into that 21% VAT rate even triggered responses to foreign publishing associations, namely the European publishing association of newspapers and magazines EMMA and ENPA, calling on the government of the Czech Republic to withdraw from the proposal to increase the VAT rate for newspapers to 21 percent, and, on the contrary, to consider transferring all the periodic press, namely newspapers and magazines, to a zero VAT rate, just as it proposes for books. The Association's letter was addressed directly to Prime Minister Fial. More than a double increase in the VAT rate for newspapers will lead to a significant increase in their price and will clearly reduce the availability of newspapers and magazines for citizens of the Czech Republic, writes associations. We believe that the financial contribution of this increase in rates for the state budget would be negligible in the case of sales of periodic printing. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that the increase in the price of the press will inevitably adversely affect sales, which ultimately means that tax revenues for the State will be reduced, the associations said, among other things, in their letter. Of course, the question here is, what are newspapers and magazines? The uncertainty is caused by the application of VAT according to the type of titles. The press law does not define newspapers or magazines, i.e. the Czech press law. It refers only to periodic printing. The Ministry of Finance has informed that periodicity will be decided in accordance with the Customs Act, i.e. the economic newspaper's source, to distinguish newspapers from journals for the purposes of setting value added tax. If the title is issued not more than three times a week, it will be included in the reduced VAT rate as a magazine, whereas, if the product is issued at least four times a week, typically a newspaper, it will be included in the basic VAT rate, said the spokesman of the Ministry, Mrs Gabriela Krušinová. The Customs Act to which it refers, although according to Hospodářské noviny, distinguishes periodicals in this way according to the number of weekly editions, but does not distinguish them according to this key to newspapers and magazines. It is also not clear how this periodicity will be assessed for purely digital products that do not have regular editions. STEM/MARK has conducted a survey that has been subtitled: the public does not understand press proposals. The Czech public does not understand the government's intention to sort printed matter into three levels of VAT. This was shown by this research from STEM/MARK focused on the perception of packages of proposed government measures to stabilise public finances. It was carried out on a sample of 805 respondents from the Czech National Panel. Citizens largely agree that the increase threatens the issue particularly in the case of newspapers, and the VAT rate should be the same for books, newspapers and magazines. A considerable representation also has the view that the measure will increase the scope for spreading disinformation. It is more space for various servers that do not have permanent editors, reaction systems, some codified moral, ethical and professional codes. The reduction in the VAT rate per book from 10 per cent to a zero rate is considered to be very reasonable - 47 per cent of respondents. By contrast, an increase in the VAT rate for newspapers from 10 to 21 % is considered illogical, nonsystemic or very unreasonable by up to 67 percent of respondents. What would mean a higher taxation of newspapers for traditional publishing houses and media consumers, and why is the daily press important, even if paper newspapers buy and read less and less people? I quote again: The government is driving the Czech Republic into the arms of disinformation websites and technological platforms, responding for the union of publishers Mrs. Libuše Šmuclerová, Chairman of the Board of Directors of this traditional publishing association. The Union of Publishers has stated that it will seek the so-called a super-low rate, i.e. 0 percent for newspapers and magazines, just like it's supposed to be for books. Next, I quote Mrs. Šmuclerová: "Media is not yogurt, it is not a classic commodity. They play a completely different role in society and it's not just the economy." Prime Minister Petr Fiala's government, in the opinion of the Association of Online Publishers, will put another nail in the casket of free media. The Association has stated this in response to the consolidation package, which includes the abolition of this tax exemption for the daily press. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura explained that the main reason why magazines will be at a reduced rate is the existence of scientific journals. Yes, there are other magazines, I quote, which are not scientific, but that can no longer be distinguished. We know scientific journals, we don't know scientific papers, he said at a press conference. In the draft of the Ministry of Finance, does the detailed explanation of which types of newspapers this amendment will concern, whether this transfer will concern all printed printed printed printed printed printed printed printed or decide how to bind, or will periodicity decide? And how will the reader's access to locked digital content be taxed? He's asking the association. Czech laws still make no difference between newspapers and magazines, there is no legislative definition of newspapers. For example, the press law generally refers to the periodic press. Furthermore, I quote: "In this context, we consider the abolition of the VAT exemption for the daily press to be at least unfortunate," says the association. "Then, unfortunately, we must say that, on the basis of the amendment of the copyright law, large digital platforms have changed their behaviour on the Czech market. Part of their products have ended for publishers and at the same time changed the way they display messages on their platforms, which once again has a negative economic impact on the publishing market," the statement adds. Otherwise for interest, members of the Association of Online Publishers are, for example, the Czech Press Office, Television Prima, the publishing house Economia, Extra Online Media, Echo24, Journal N, magazine Reporter, Watchdog, Info.cz and other media. Diaries were and are an anchor for readers to learn about misinformation on the Internet. The government can take this anchor from people by increasing their VAT. This threatens to increase the consumption of messages from the Internet, where technology platforms have no responsibility for content on the Internet and do not. Moreover, removing newspapers from magazines and books makes no sense at all. And the comments made by the government that the magazines are also scientific are ridiculous. Mrs Libuše Šmuclerová, President of the Board of Directors of the Union of Publishersors, joined with criticism. I will add some basic information about the Union of Publishers. For more than 30 years now, it represents a total of 43 publishers of print publications, which give around 300 printed newspapers and magazines and run on 200 Internet publications, the members of the Union publish all newspapers in the Czech Republic for up to two titles and reach about 50 percent of magazine production. In addition to the Internet Development Association, they account for about 80 percent of the market for the provision of Internet content in print publications. The intervention of printed titles of members of the Union according to research by Media project, which is co-founder, the majority co-founder of this Union of publishers, amounts to more than 73 percent of the population of the Czech Republic between 12 and 79 years of age. A member of the Union of publishers employs more than 5 000 publishing staff. [[19.00 hours]] We have often heard a variety of approaches to different European countries here today. So if this VAT increase were to take place in the newspapers, as our government proposes, then the Czech Republic will, according to Union figures, have the highest VAT for printing in Europe, meaning, of course, periodic printing. In Germany, the tax is 7%, 8% in Poland, 4% in Italy and Spain, and 2.1 % in France. I would really like to join in this proposal by the Union of publishers of the Czech Republic to make it a super reduction to zero, because I am convinced that the periodic press is one of the cornerstones of the culture of the nation, education and information, and every citizen of democratic establishment is entitled to information. And, of course, I'm also based on my experience. It may seem funny, but I started publishing the first paper in the eighth grade, sometime in 1970, called the Eight Rivends. And I accidentally tried what I later needed to publish my own newspaper, that there was a need for an editorial system, some distribution, and so on. I used very simple polygraphic tools, a hand press, and I pressed my headers. And I also learned the basics that really suited me my whole life, so I really wish I didn't have to use the principles of conspiracy that I got in that samizdat school edition once. Thank you for your precious attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u290	Thank you for your performance, too. And now it's Mr. Síla's turn. And before I give him my word, I'll load two apologies. Mr Kolář Ondřej apologizes at 19 o'clock for health reasons and Mr Nacher Patrik at 19 o'clock for personal reasons. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u291	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, let me also comment on the current package to consolidate our public finances. But when I listened to all my previous speakers' contributions all day today, I realized I had to rework the whole speech because practically all the problems were solved here and I won't repeat myself. So I will focus in my speech on why it was actually necessary to submit a consolidation package to us for a solution. Debt under the government of the current cabinet is nominally increasing at roughly twice the rate compared to the increase in the government of the previous cabinet of Andrej Babiš. This first quarter of the Czech Republic's public debt for the first time in history exceeded the psychological level of CZK 3 trillion and showed a level of almost 3.1 trillion. For faster debt growth under the Fialův Government compared to the situation under Babišův's government, it is perhaps some part of it that makes inflation more sensitive and significant. Let us look at the real reason for unprecedented inflation. The Czech National Bank is supposed to represent our interests, 99 percent of us citizens, and not the interests of 1%, even the interests of foreign investors. From November 2013 to April 2017, easing interventions ran to weaken the koruna, to save the dollar, mainly the euro before collapse. The Czech National Bank held the so-called exchange rate commitment to artificially devalue our currency, and it blew a total of CZK 2.05 trillion on this interesting banking operation. They bought euros, bonds and other papers for our crowns. Since the heads of the Czech National Bank are obedient servants of the European Central Bank, they have ruined the Czech currency. In what interest would they do that? Now let's imagine the situation of a foreign investor. He comes in, takes his territory, builds a factory with tax relief, often brings his raw materials there, takes out the manufactured semi-finished goods. The product completes in its home and sells it there and unfortunately taxes it. Here, they only pay with a devalued crown of human labor and basic inputs. He leaves behind a devastated landscape, takes the cheap energy that our environment weighs on, and destroys our roads. Our government is doing great. The assembly and processing industry continues to produce semi-finished products that no one wants to have at home because they cost a lot of energy and raw materials, destroy the environment and need a lot of unqualified work. So we employ our citizens as slaves in montovny and help foreign investors with cheap crowns. Let us look at this from the perspective of the Czech company. It had to buy raw materials in dollars or euros, exported finished products but in impaired crowns. At the same rate, the Czech National Bank paid its people with impaired crowns and needed to amortise the machinery park for euro or dollars. The same has happened in all social areas, including health care. An example of the devastating influence of the Czech National Bank on Czech companies producing and exporting finished products is clear. After the interventions, sales also increased in slave montage. That's right. But the capitalist business is going to profit and the company could not have it because it sold for the damaged crown, but it produced in euro, so intervention clearly damaged Czech companies. The central bank has already decided to face inflation with two proper measures under Governor Jiří Rusnok. This was an increase in interest rates, thereby preventing the impaired koruna's exchange rate from living on inflation, and therefore the fixed exchange rate of the koruna was set. Again, the right measures, but unfortunately, and here I must stress it, vocally supported by the central bank. Was it a major mistake or intent? Because a banker can never say that. Because when we are sure that there is no exchange rate risk and the central bank pays 7 percent of the interest, it is obvious that it will attract speculators. The result was the appreciation of the koruna for the euro to 23 crowns. This appreciation of the exchange rate is a direct reason for the entry of speculative capital because the current account was negative at the time. This error or intention of publication of the fixed exchange rate cost the Czech or Central National Bank only CZK 420 billion in 2022. The strengthening of the koruna has a major impact on the distribution of income. About 60 percent of exports from the Czech Republic, I deliberately say this, I do not say our exports, are automotive products, several engineering products from Ostrava and Brno, Plzeň, possibly Agrofert and together it makes 80 percent of exports. All these large companies did not borrow at 7 percent, they borrowed at substantially lower interest in euro. The anti-inflationary monetary policy did not do these big businesses much harm, but it fell most to small and medium-sized enterprises that borrow from commercial banks, even at 12 percent. By the way, this appreciation of the koruna according to economic rules should be clearly reflected in a rapid discount of food, which did not happen because Czech food is usually imported. This has not happened for specific Czech reasons, and this is because there is a strongly distorted market for producers and distributors and large players such as Agrofert, who have high market shares, they are able to strongly influence price formation. [[19.10 hours]] Interestingly, both domestic and import food prices and domestic food prices grew even more than import prices in a situation where the koruna strengthened. May's implementation of the state budget, in which there was a terrible deficit of 295 billion, looks like a June 215 billion axe is the second worst June in the country's history. But the reality is that if there were no 36 billion of European funds, the June deficit would be only a little less terrible than the May deficit, it would be CZK 250 billion in particular. Despite the still high inflation, VAT, which flows into the budget continuously, or should - or is - significantly higher, is five percentage points lower than expected at the end of the semester. The first CZK 12.8 billion from windfall tax came into the state register, and it must be recalled that these are advances calculated from last year's high profits, so beware, the real tax will be calculated on the basis of this year's profits, and if they are lower than last year, there is a risk that money will be returned to the companies again. So the budget windfall tax is drowning in a fog even deeper than the rest of the data on this year's state management. The government is probably comforted by the fact that European funds can perform miracles with the Czech Republic's budget. For example, Babišův's government expected a deficit of CZK 70 billion in 2016. At the end of the year, 62 billion crowns had a surplus. The main reason was in addition to poor budgeting - economic boom and good tax collection. But the main reason was in fact European funds, from which 72 billion extra crowns unexpectedly appeared in the state register before expected. Instead of planning one of the worst results, Babišův's government has added to the bank the best annual results of the state's management, because Brussels' financial, so-called higher power - however visually welcome - does not solve Czech public finances that have a huge structural problem. Unfortunately, the European Union does not write any subsidy programmes on its solution, unless we count bailouts for the over-indebted economies of southern Europe, where I hope the government does not want to go. But who knows? Budget revenues reached CZK 917.2 billion at the end of June, increased by 16.5% compared to last year, i.e. CZK 151.3 billion. Budget expenditure, total, increased by CZK 162 billion year on year, i.e. by 16.8%. Together, this amounted to CZK 1,133 trillion in the half term. And now for that debt of your own. In 2019 the revenue of the state budget was CZK 1 523,2 billion, and in 2023 the planned revenue is CZK 1,927 trillion. The state budget deficit was 28.5 billion in 2019 and is planned for 2023 about 10 times higher, 295 billion crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u292	Yes, I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking you to calm down if you can move your conversations into the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u293	Thank you. A leap in debt has taken place on behalf of poor people, which is debt outside the state's income. After all, in bad times, a billionaire will not increase the state's income by taxing foreign banks and his millionaire friends. But it is still de facto possible to praise Babišův's government's debt policy, because Alena Schillerová, following Japan's model, amended the laws on bond handling to keep debts at home. Despite the cost of covido, the debt service was relatively low. So what's the main thing? Debt remained with domestic financial institutions. So Babišův's government owed us, but at home. Our wallets were burdened by over 10 percent of the real wage decline by 17% inflation, plus further debt repayment, but those are internal, so the state did not sell directly to the bank troika. Government debt has increased since 31. 12. 2019 from 1.75 trillion crowns to three trillion crowns at 31. 12. 2022, crossing the magical limit of three trillion. The real key, the economic indicator is the decline in real wages. Statistical data clearly confirms on our real salaries as, from which is reflected also the low purchasing power of the population. [[The most important?]] [[An indicator?]] At 17% inflation, real wages dropped by 10 per cent in just one year. People's impoverishment is certainly commended by masochists, five-calice voters, and a part of the manipulated general people. But the rest of our population now realizes that the Fialův government is gradually losing its claim to legitimacy. In other words, that means the end of the social contract concluded by ringing keys in November 1989 in the square, which I also participated in. In general, the neoliberal right wants a minimum state. Fialův's five-caliber made it better, 'cause she probably doesn't want to stand any more. Our problem is the disappearing state, which guarantees us civil, human rights through the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The unelected Brussels guarantees the power of the one who lives outside Europe. We are not Members of the European Parliament to pretend that we control the activities of the European Union with richly paid lies. We are Members of the Czech House, which should control the Czech government's management. A reliable indicator of management is the state debt, its amount, structure and operation. If the executor takes away our house, all the facilities and actually the wife who divorces us after the family budget has failed, we have no right to ask for anything from the children we have lost our own - euphemistically speaking - indifference. It's the same with our state. We can only get into debt up to the level of real income. And those revenues must be real, really real, unfortunately not as a lying budget of a five-wheeler who has criticized the finance ex-minister, the honored Alena Schillerová, who, as the previous finance minister, certainly knows what she's talking about. So the government is based on imaginary calculations, and now it's trying to break down the most necessary ones using some kind of consolidation package. It is the best basis for a debt economy to lose the sovereignty of the state. Thanks to the indiscretion of 108 current Members, we have already lost our digital and information sovereignty by establishing a Trojan horse called the Digital and Information Agency last year, which will be managed by the former register of citizens, which was previously administered by law by various ministries and authorities of the state administration of the Czech Republic. New powers over data may, at their discretion, form a basis for the development of information systems. In fact, they can do what they see fit. Another important thing is the storage of these data, which is a total mess. I quote literally § 6q para. 1. The Ministry, the Agency shall decide on the registration of the cloud computing provider in the cloud computing catalogue on the basis of its request if the cloud computing provider complies with the requirement of § 6m para. 1. So let's sum it up. Our key data on residents, including the economy, can go legally outside the Republic. And whoever gets in there after that, that cloud computing, it's practically undetectable. In the event of a possible further crisis, it will be found that the pirate office of digital truth and love has cloud storage in the United States or anywhere else from where this state of ours, so-called, will be managed. We will end up like Varufakis when he wanted to make a silent coup in Greece at the Ministry of Finance, so that the state would have at least basic powers. But he didn't have the dates. Then there will be nothing they can do in a crisis or those who really want to do it and could do it. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House, the government is preparing a transition from the war's debt economy to a state managed externally under the leadership of the Atlantic. [[19.20 hours]] In conclusion, let us read the definition of treason from the Criminal Code. Treason is a criminal offence under Section 309 of the Criminal Code, which is committed by a citizen of the Czech Republic who, in connection with foreign power or with a foreign agent... a person who, although not entitled to act on behalf of a foreign State, has a significant influence on the political situation, commits a criminal offence of the overthrow of the Republic in accordance with Section 310, 311, 312 and 314. For such an act, the law provides for punishment in prison for 15 to 20 years or exceptional punishment. In addition, if necessary, the forfeiture of property. I'm an informed optimist, but I still don't think this government crew will leave the oar as peacefully as the former communists did in 1989. Why don't I think so? Because they're going to push the five-calices through the United States' peace treaty in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u294	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your speech was made on a factual note, Mr Bělobrádek came forward. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u295	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, I'm just a tech actually. Members of the European Parliament shall be elected in elections. Members of the European Commission receive nominations for these individual cases in those countries, so they are approved by the government. They then go through the so-called barbecue within the European Parliament. Can the European Parliament also reject them, such as Emilio Pucci Lyone?). And as far as the European Council is concerned, well, that's where it's headed by governments, or ministers by ministers, ministers who obviously don't have to have the confidence of their Parliaments, Snemoven, that's what happens, even here we had it. But saying they're not elected to anyone is just not right or right, and I don't think it's even formally right. So from this point of view, talking about the institutions of the European Union as unelected people is not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u296	Thank you for keeping time. And with priority rights, Vice-President Decroix is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u297	Thank you, Madam President. And I'd just like to ask for an hour break on the basis of the coalition club agreement and the opposition agreement. That means 7:22 p.m., please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u298	Okay. So I'm declaring a one-hour break, which means we'll meet back here at 8:22 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate. Mr Lubomír Wenzl is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u300	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, on the agenda of this meeting is the discussion of the Government's bill on the consolidation of public budgets. Some of the areas from this material, which I wanted to point out in my speech, have already been mentioned by some colleagues. I do not want to repeat this once, and therefore I will leave out these passages in my contribution and make my contribution brief. I will comment on the areas that will have a negative impact on the citizens of our country if this material is accepted. The first area is the question of motivating young people today to have an active approach to education. In the past, the first negative intervention of this government was to reduce the discount on student fare. There was a jumping high increase in the amount of transport and thus the burden of them and the families of students. But it doesn't stop by reducing the fare discount. The submitted material shows, in the event of its approval, that the discount on the student will be cancelled, a discount which should at least partially relieve the students financially. Relieved students who work for their studies. Why do students work during their studies? Part of them works because they take this as part of the preparation for their future occupation, work in a similar field, for which they are qualified. I have no objection to that. Most of the time, however, this is not the case, and their main objective is to obtain funds to cover the rapid and high growth of costs associated with their studies, study materials and aids, accommodation, diets, etc., and they cannot rely on support from their parents or sometimes grandparents. There are thousands of students working like this. I will go back to the way I mentioned at the beginning, how to motivate young people to be interested in studying when their own countries, through this government, are throwing them a stick. Our share of university-educated people in the population is among the lowest in the whole of the European Union. I believe that the interest of every responsible government should be to motivate the young to study. Educated people usually have greater opportunities for employment in the labour market and not to mention better paid jobs. Their higher income will benefit in the future from the state budget in the form of a levy on their wages or salaries. I ask myself why the government wants to harm students with this measure, punish them. As another serious and unsolved problem, I see in the support and motivation of young people to start families, which, if adopted, will deepen even further. The availability of mortgages, rising energy prices and increasing cost of life as such has increased dramatically and continues to increase disproportionately. Here, mine. a clearly sent signal for young people, as this government wants to support this group of citizens of our country in quotation marks, is the abolition of state support for building savings. After all, today the opportunity to get your own youth housing is like an episode of a failed science fiction series. An integral part of the trend in young people's lives nowadays outside of concern for their own education, housing, etc. are also, of course, worried about further existence, which in some cases has a negative effect on their health. I want to add that the problem with the availability of our own housing is not limited to young people. The inaccessibility of its own housing, its inaccessibility concerns virtually the middle class today and the adoption of this present material will deepen the problem even further. The last thing I would like to mention in my contribution is changes in the area of value added tax in relation to the above and their impact on citizens. The VAT rate of 10, 15 and 21 per cent is to be abolished and the rates are to be three again in the future, at 0, 14 and 21 per cent. These tax changes due to the new distribution of goods and services into individual zones of value added tax will cause the cost of living not only for young people, students, but for the vast majority of our citizens to rise. Citizens will reduce the preventive health of beneficial activities, use of public swimming pools, saunas, steam baths. There will be restrictions on visits to theatres, concerts, cinemas, cultural events, festivals, sports events. Why is this happening? The answer is simple. Because thanks to the proposal to move value added tax from the price of admission from the current 10% rate to the rate of 21 percent. I interpret this intention by the petitioner and this government in such a way that the health of beneficial activity and cultural literacy of citizens of our country are less socially valuable, and so their taxation will increase, equals the deterioration of accessibility for citizens. Did you realise in the preparation of this draft law that the secondary impact of this VAT measure will be a deterioration in the management of operators of these installations due to a decrease in sales? And I'm going to mention one more college students here for a short time. Once again, due to the upward change in the VAT rate, they will increase the cost of accommodation on higher education colleges. By the way, these for example on ČVUT tracks in the last year were raised first by 16 and then another 15 percent. For the Government, Madam Secretary, the draft law on consolidation of public budgets is the result of the fact that under your leadership the State is unable to consolidate public budgets in the first place itself, i.e. save on yourself. The content of the material under discussion, the measures envisaged, shows that this government proposal was to be submitted for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies under the title "Tax package aimed at companies, businessmen and all citizens of our country" because it is those who bear all the burden of obtaining funds for the benefit of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u301	Thank you. Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will now appear, Mr Ryba will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u302	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow Members, I am glad that I, too, can comment on the present, as we call it, on the tax package that will adversely affect almost all citizens of the Czech Republic at many levels. In his opening speech, the Minister said: The government tried not to hit any group of social, age or professional people too hard in creating the package. I can only agree with that. I'm sure that's a good idea. But it is also important to bear in mind that we already have vulnerable groups that have been facing various problems for a long time, such as high inflation, a leap in fuel, food prices, and all other things. [[20.30 hours]] And these groups, of course, are going to be much harder on these changes. The other thing is that those groups will not only touch on the change in the package, but also on the changes in others. Now I am talking about a group of seniors, when we were actually discussing changes in the pension system, which will have a negative impact, plus some changes in the package. And it still hits the same group. Another such group is people with disabilities. Again, the care allowance was not increased, the payment decree increased. Those are the people who have low pensions, I've talked about this a couple of times. Invalid pensions are among the lowest in the Czech Republic. We are not just talking about the fact that the package will have a very negative impact, but that is how renowned economists express themselves. They say that the negative impact will therefore be mainly on employees, pensioners, people with disabilities, families with children and low-income groups. It'll be another deterioration in their financial situation. At the same time, we are already seeing a sharp increase in social benefits and support paid. The most significant increase was in applications for housing aid. In March this year, The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs paid 259,000 totalling nearly 1.5 billion crowns. Just for comparison, last month it was 708 million crowns. Similar statistics show that these are no longer individual social cases, but that they are facing systematic poverty. It manifests itself that even people who work properly and diligently can no longer pay for housing, food, care for their children properly, that is to pay for basic needs. Moreover, systemic poverty puts people in serious, sometimes unsolvable social situations and indirectly causes the collapse of government. This can be seen in recent months mainly on the activities of labour offices and the Czech Social Security Administration. The changes that are in the package, and they are really incomprehensible to me, are the ones that hit young families. And these are changes in both VAT, cancellation of kindergarten fees, increase of property tax and more. They're just other negative signals for those who started a family. Meanwhile, young families have long faced high prices of housing, food, and others, and we know from research that high inflation has fallen mainly on them, or that it is one of the groups they have hit. The proposed measures will further deepen their problems, and this will ultimately affect the reduction in birth rate, which is also decreasing every year. According to the Czech Statistical Office, birth rate decreased significantly in the Czech Republic. According to data, a thousand children were born on average each month less than in 2021. When I talk to such families, they say that having a child at present is basically a luxury. And that, of course, is not good for anyone. It states that one parent usually receives around CZK 9,000 a month for three years. Families with children belong to a group that faces even more than other inflation, high mortgage prices, food and energy. Having a child means a fundamental decline in the standard of living for parents. For more than half the singles or singles, it's just a slump beyond poverty. They themselves are and they are, I'm not saying that they are big numbers, but they are such families, and it is very sad that they have to save on the quality of food already. And that's really alarming for a family with little children. Another change I disagree with is the increase in property tax, because it will again affect all citizens, the ones that I have just mentioned to vulnerable groups. Despite the fact that we are still hearing that real estate tax is not high in the Czech Republic, it is important to remind in this area that for decades the acquisition of a house in certain regions, in smaller villages, was the cheapest way to get housing. That means we don't have owners of flats and houses in a high-income group, but on the contrary. The increase in property tax will affect people who have bought this cheap housing, but also people who live in rental apartments, because it is assumed that the increase will be reflected in rents. It is important to note that any change in the real estate tax rate will affect the rental housing market. Property owners who rent them will likely have to pass this tax on to tenants in the form of higher rents. Such a step could lead to a further deterioration in housing availability for many population groups. The State should approach tax increases with caution and discretion, especially in the area of housing, the accessibility and accessibility of housing to all citizens, and not the collection of higher taxes, should be a priority. The tax package presented thus brings so much negative impact that we cannot in any way agree with it. We certainly cannot support such changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u303	Thank you. Mr Drahoslav Ryba will now speak in the general debate and Mrs Věra Adámková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u304	Madam President, Madam Minister, Ministers, honourable Members, today we are discussing the Act on the consolidation of public budgets, the so-called consolidation package, namely 63 laws that increase taxes more or less, and we have recently discussed a law that reduces pensions, and I rather call it the tax package. What is the current reality? Unfortunately, the Czech economy is in recession and five koalice is repeating textbook and economic errors. We're going back to the deep past. Once again, the ODS-led government has put tens of thousands of households in poverty, caused massive social unrest, the collapse of thousands of companies, and its ingenuity caused the Czech Republic to be one of the longest affected countries in the past economic crisis. I've been there myself. When, during the ODS government, between 2011 and 2014, the budget of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Czech Republic was unprecedentedly reduced by more than one quarter, namely other current expenditures, or if you want operating, to just 73 percent and expenditure on programming funding, if you want investment, to catastrophic 28 percent. With reckless cuts, we almost got into a lot more trouble. I thought I was experiencing a time when we didn't have enough oil, we didn't have enough gas, we didn't have enough bills to pay our bills, and we went, and for that is a great thank you to the mayors and the captains who helped us in these moments, so that the system as such would be preserved. I really thought that the Civil Democratic Party had learned that it would not make that mistake again. I was wrong. Yes. It has to be saved, but it has to start in its own place in the first place. If people are to trust you, you have to set an example. It is not possible to raise taxes, rob pensioners and, on the other hand, increase the number of ministers, set up dozens of political representatives and hire hundreds of advisors. I know. You're going to argue that it's small from a state budget point of view. But it's a signal, a signal about you preaching water and drinking wine. In addition, it is necessary to encourage the start-up of the economy and, above all, to gain people's trust. Common people do not believe you, and this is also one of the reasons for the decline in the economy and large inflation. [[20.40 hours]] It is not enough to increase taxes and reduce pensions, because I simply consider reducing pensions to be reducing them. The economic crisis cannot be crossed out, even with the help of a large part of the media. I absolutely lack growth measures in the material. I miss anti-inflationary measures and many other things. The Czech economy fell by 0.5 % year on year in the first quarter of 2023. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2022, it reported a change of 0.0%. That's pure stagnation. The economy thus shows no signs of growth. Real household income and real consumption are falling. However, it must be said that, apart from exceptions such as Poland or Luxembourg, the European Union is currently stagnating. Let's take another look at the gross domestic product. In the second half of last year, the Czech Republic belonged to only three OECD countries that fell into recession. Finland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have failed. According to OECD, the gross domestic product of the Czech Republic will grow by 0.3 percent this year. This is the assumption that we will achieve the ninth worst result among OECD countries. 38 of them, by the way. The OECD average should be 1.4 %. Spicy on the tax package is the fact that it goes against the notoriously repeated promise of right-wing parties that two-thirds of the savings will be on the spending side of the budget, is otherwise the operation and expenditure of the state and only one-third on the income side of tax increases. Unfortunately, I don't believe this declaration. The reality is that the package presented by this government represents a total savings of 93 billion per year and of which at least 80 percent, i.e. CZK 73 billion, represents an entirely ordinary tax increase. It is the largest tax increase in the modern history of the Czech Republic. 73 billion crowns a year. Thus, in complete contradiction with the government's programming statement that an investigation on the expenditure side of the budget will be the dominant source of savings. And I have not yet spoken about the election vows of government parties, but also recent statements not to return before the election, members of the cabinet of the current Prime Minister. A lot of them fell here, which is why I'm only gonna mention about four or five of them. Five-calice before the House elections in 2021 on billboards promised not to raise taxes. No tax increases. The state has to save on itself, not on people. For example, it indicated on the social network KDU-ČSL 20 May 2021. We will tighten budgetary rules, and the budget will no longer be a tearing calendar that the government does not take seriously. We'll put a stop to government spending increases, once again, on people's contributions. It is better for society, the economy and the state when money is available to people and companies. We believe that it is people and companies who know best how to spend their money, that on May 10, 2022 ODS has already announced on Facebook. Last October, the Prime Minister himself said that his government would not increase taxes on households. We're not raising taxes. tečka, he emphasized on the show that day. Well, I see it a little differently from the tax package. At the beginning of August 2021, the current Minister of Finance, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, on the social network, stressed that the idea of increasing real estate tax is really dangerous. I don't see why the state should punish someone for getting a place. In addition, higher taxation will be reflected in the rental price and the only ones who will pay for it are the tenants. That's not the way to go." End of quote. And I have to say, I totally agree with this claim. Unfortunately, the reality is exactly the opposite. These are just examples, and I could continue, but I will not extend my speech by citing the promises that the current coalition has given voters, and in fact does the opposite. It would be a very long time, and finally, you have received their inventory from my fellow Member, Mr Nacher, through Madam President. All these statements are, in a better case, unfulfilled promises, in a worse, conscious lie to deceive voters. Unfortunately, there are so many that almost no one can trust the government anymore. Perhaps incorrigible optimists. In doing so, it may be good to mention one of the definitions of optimist and pessimist, who says that a pessimist is just a well-informed optimist. In conclusion, to wake up a little, perhaps just one joke, which would be funny if it wasn't true and I remembered it at the Prime Minister's speech today, which said today that the so-called consolidation package is just the beginning. So let's make a joke. The pessimist says, "It can't get any worse." Optimist says, "She can, she can"! And I'm sorry to add one word to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u305	Thank you. It is now Mrs Věra Adámková's turn to speak in the general debate, and Mr Jiří Strýček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u306	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Since many things have already been said in the debate that I originally wanted to say, I will, of course, shorten it. And I only touch three points. Two very quickly, because I consider it necessary to supplement it so that it is clear why the current decision in the package, no matter what we call it, is not good. Okay, first of all. We heard from beekeepers today - I warn you I'm not a beekeeper, I don't have any beekeepers, I see this a little bit from a different point of view. But we have heard what the implications might be if the proposed package of measures came into force at the same time. I just add that I have been approached by many parents, but also by colleagues, whether immunologists or pneumologists, that honey really is a significant helper in the non-pharmacological treatment and for everyone, not everyone is engaged in honey, I understand that. I'll say a few guinea fowls. For example, honey in Egypt said it was the gift of the sun god. Even the Koran says it's God's blessing. And the Viking brought it to your perfection and used mead. So, of course, you can see that the honey is guided by history. But to get back to why his colleagues really need him for treatment. It is because there is a small amount of energy, and it really recommends it during recovery, after severe sepsis, after severe surgery, after severe injuries and so on. Surely it is not for everyone, the diabetic unfortunately cannot proceed like this. But it's an irreplaceable file in this case. Otherwise it contains vitamin C, vitamin B, iron, phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, or all important trace elements. We therefore ask very much to consider the decision that has come up in this package, because it is definitely not good. I'm totally passing what's already been said. That means landscapes and colonies and so on. But we would really get into a situation that I wouldn't want to be in, and that is, at the cost of this wrong decision, beekeepers wouldn't be more or less in their hobby, because surely those who do it for a living are few. And we wouldn't have quality honey on the market where we can trace its origin, we can track its quality. And you know very well that we repeatedly had honey on the market, or what was called honey, where there were antibiotics. Big problem. We would do really badly for the immunity of our children, but also for the start of impaired tolerance to these medicines. So we need to take this into account. And in no way, please don't throw these comments under the table. One of the beekeepers is texting me today, if the ponds are zero, why are we in such a bad way? Is it because none of the powerful in this world is such a beekeeper? I don't know, answer it yourself, and I hope this person is wrong, that it wasn't done with the intention of trying or not but to support one of the other known or politicians. I hope that's not the case. A second short reminder, please, I have research and development on this. And here I have to introduce you to two phone calls where I was committed, and I promised I'd say it here, so I'm doing it. Both of them were ladies who feed on science, one engineer, one science doctor. Both are members of the parties to the current coalition, so it's really a little curious that I say it here, but I promised you, ladies, you can now verify that I'm actually fulfilling my promises. [[20.50 hours]] They both turned to me with the fact that it is known that if I think the voter has the right to say it here - and he has - I will say it no matter what. They're really worried about research and development in our country, and they've asked me a few questions that I'm not asking here as some kind of interpelation. I'm merely passing it on, so I assume that proper experts and government members will think about it. Firstly, they consider the reduction of about 10 billion to be absolutely devastating, which does not allow the development of the field either in science or in research. They believe that there will be a significant reduction in the published projects, both the Grant Agencies of the Czech Republic and the Technical Agencies of the Czech Republic, and that really no private sector in our country is set up to subsidize this money. They asked me the questions I have written here, which I say in this honored community. First of all, why isn't the Ministry of Science and Research taking care of us? Why, on the contrary, doesn't the Minister insist on increasing the sum to science and research? Because we feel that no one cares about us, that we have been thrown overboard and that science and research are not a priority of this government. So I repeat again, I said what I promised. I also feel that it is a burden for science and research, because it is really impossible to do without money. So much for the short gloss of what my honored colleague here said, Professor Špičák. Now let me say a few words and also a proposal on one thing that we have already announced with my colleague Mádlová. It's about celiac. I am still asking for some revision of the views that are in this package, as I say, whatever we call it. Because let me say a few words about this disease, which is not as rare as it seems, and these people have no treatment, except that they have to eat what their organism allows them to eat. So celiac disease is an inflammatory systemic disease that has the only treatment and it is a dietary regimen. We don't have anything to do with this. Even of all the world's acquaintances, if you suffer from this, you will have nothing else to sustain this disease permanently - not to cure it, but to keep it within bearable limits. In Europe, there are about three to thirteen cases per thousand children under 15 years of age. Of course, since it's more or less a disease that's also inherited - the problem, not the disease, the problem - so in families where there's already a celiac, the incidence is 8 - 18 percent. 18 percent, please, is not enough. That's less than a fifth, that's true, but a fifth is a lot. In the Czech Republic we have roughly the prevalence of 1 : 250 - 300 people throughout the spectrum of age regardless of age. Women are somewhat more affected. Otherwise, this disease, of course, is associated with other disorders, which, if the basic diet is not followed, make it worse. Many times, despite the deterioration of the other diseases, it actually comes down to the underlying disease. It is often associated with type one diabetes, which is the one that must be treated with insulin, with autoimmune thyroid disease, which is the most common gland disease with internal secretion. It affects a little more women, but men are by no means liberated from it. It could also be IgA immunodeficiency, which means the most common disorder actually of the mucus immunity part. But unfortunately, it is also associated with an increased incidence of lymphomas. This is a disease that I really do not wish for anyone, as I do not wish for anyone in the end. What can we do? I beg the Minister here very much - I know we have heard that the government is deciding as a whole, but here I would say that the dominant position is probably the Minister of Finance - to consider the proposal that we will have here. Please nicely, these people have no other treatment, I repeat. The point is that their organism cannot process gluten, which is in wheat flour, but also in rye, barley. So what they can do is, of course, peas, lentils, corn flour, quinoa, buckwheat flour, or rice pasta and all that. Please, they're pretty expensive. There is also a mixture of flour on the market from which they can bake, which, of course, already costs about 100 kroner kilos. So in case there's still a tax increase, imagine how expensive it is. Of course, this will increase all the products that are on the market. I have to say, unfortunately, not even small children are being targeted, so there is another problem that is correct, please. It's a hygiene problem for kindergartens, schools. The part of the kitchen that would prepare gluten-free diet must be completely separated from the part that prepares gluten-free diet. It means other dishes, different board, different work roll and so on and so on. Which many smaller schools or kindergartens can't afford because they just don't have room. So the way it's dealt with is that sometimes your parents actually deliver food to smaller kindergartens or schools today and, of course, the dining room is able to heat this up in the microwave and so on. They're just people who have this handicap for life, and believe me, it's not easy when this little kid is watching and he wants to have something just baked, some pastries and it's very expensive. Not everyone can do it. It is true that insurance companies, please, contribute to the eating of celiacs and it is a benefit of six to ten crowns a year. This will certainly help, but if these foods become significantly more expensive, it will no longer be enough. Since we know that, of course, a purse of money for each family is final, no one is being multiplied by just a thought, so the point is that after paying for all the energy and buying everything, I would be very happy if they could just continue to secure this one treatment for their members. Because, as we know, this misfortune never goes by itself, and as you've seen in the small statistics, it's usually not the disease - it's not the ability, please, it can have many members of the family - an outbreak disease, so it's usually not one member. So we would like to make a bold suggestion that we really help these people. Because zero is also a valid number, so the proposal will be after processing of course, - but as you can see, we are the opposition of dreams and I am already calling it - we would ask that the raw materials, I don't mean the product, the raw materials were really where the gluten is, really gluten-free to be given to the zero rate. Because for those families, this is really disastrous. They are already affected simply by themselves, greatly limiting the comfort of these families, the possibility of children having to participate in some things. In case we allow the food price to go up there, it's really devastating for them. I'll tell you how it ends because I know people like that. Of course, no one can eat for a long time, so they just eat something where the gluten is. The punishment comes quite surely. It's not just that they're a little sick. It's temperature, it's severe intestinal inflammation, unfortunately with major complications, these people are hospitalized and it's not at all easy. So here very much, please consider gluten-free ingredients so that we can really help these people to ease them, because they don't have a simple situation. So I think that it would be clear that the government really has the population's health as a priority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u307	Thank you. With a point of fact, Minister Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor. Mrs Bělohlávková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u308	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am very pleased that my colleague is interested in the budget for science and research. Me, too, of course. I just want to make it clear that we don't have the Ministry of Science and Research. I would like to assure you that when discussing the draft state budget - and it was really only work material - on my proposal, the government adopted a resolution in which it expressed, firstly, the will to continue discussing the total amount of funds for science and research in those 16 chapters, together with the Minister of Finance and with the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Minister that these negotiations have already begun and, at the same time, that they will be set at a level sufficient to enable development in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u309	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Bělohlávková, then Minister Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u310	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I, by your means, must give the honorable Professor Adámková in most matters truly. Now I'm talking about the diagnosis of celiacs. As a pediatrician, of course, I have many children with this diagnosis. It is true that gluten-free foods in general are more financially demanding than normal diets. But one thing we need to realize is that nowadays gluten-free diet is often held by people who choose them. It's not for medical reasons, it means a lot of people are vegans these days, vegetarians. [[21.00 hours]] And I really know a lot of people who eat gluten-free because they like it that way, they just have their reasons for it, but different from health. This means, I think, that the way to help really patients who have this diagnosis is not that we are going to cover VAT on raw materials from which gluten-free foods are produced, but that we are going to go the way of increasing the contribution from health insurance companies, because that aid will be targeted, it will go to those who really use it and who need it, and I would certainly be very much in favour of this increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u311	Thank you for keeping time. I took over the management of the meeting and, as another registered comment, Mrs Věra Adámková. Furthermore, Mr Julius Špičák will prepare your two minutes, please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u312	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Thank you, my honored colleague, for your confirmation. I am very glad that this brought about this remark. I thank the Vice-President for this, Madame, because I believe precisely because this situation has not been discussed, so it is necessary to talk about it and we will certainly find some improvements or assistance for the needy. So I'm glad. That's why I also gave the zero rate to wake up the same colleagues, which I have succeeded in. Thank you. And as for Secretary Langšádlová, I said here, I quote the two ladies who turned to me. I have no right to change their sentences, which is why I said them the way they actually wrote them. And I think they're also glad to hear that there's going to be some sort of correction. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u313	Thank you, too. Mr Špičák then Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u314	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just sum up what I said in my contribution. We, by reducing the funding of health care, are getting somewhere in the Third World. It's just completely absurd, completely absurd, completely unnegotiated and yet completely schematic, without any strategy. And I would begin by saying that the Ministry itself, of course, is completely necessary, it is completely necessary, completely necessary, has no competence whatsoever, has no decision-making powers, and I could, of course, continue. And the effect it has on individual segments of science and research, the plan for the reduction, is literally liquidation. What's the effect on the Academy of Sciences? The Academy of Sciences is an extremely functional scientific facility, it is literally annihilation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u315	Thank you. Now, Mrs Ivana Mádlová, then Mr Karel Rais. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u316	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on those celiacs, because I have great experience in the family and also with the relatively large complications mentioned by the professor here. Adámková, and I would like to follow up on Mrs Bělohlávková as well. The question is whether they really have the celiac to pay off for some part of the population to decide to use a mixture to bake bread. That is, of course, a question worth discussing, but I think the celiac should take precedence. Of course, I don't know if the Treasury has calculated how much the Treasury would lose, that would probably be a good question, and I suppose that's what it's done. So if I'm asking this question at the same time. And then I'd like to ask a question about Professor Válek, because, Professor, I've already intersected you once, actually we've discussed this matter, and you said that you're dealing with insurance companies somehow, that it would be paid from a basic fund. I also respond to my colleague Bělohlávková that it is only voluntary from the prevention fund. It depends on the health insurance company, you no doubt know whether or not this benefit will be repaid from the prevention fund. Today, it is very different from insurance companies, and today some insurance companies do not even pay for it, and there is no force to order them to do so. The Ministry, the state can't order them to do it. So I don't think there's a whole way out of here, and I think celiac disease is such a serious disease - which, of course, I don't have to tell you - that it would really be worth considering any help. On the other hand, it is true that I do not know whether a zero percent VAT rate is possible under the directive of the European Union. And that, if necessary, would be my question about the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u317	Thank you. In addition, then, Mr Karel Rais and one more factual point from Mrs Adámková afterwards. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u318	Thank you. I would only follow up on previous speakers who pointed to a relatively poor state of science and research. In essence, it must be taken into account that the gradient or trend, if you wish, is becoming less and less State budget expenditure. He's been dropping since 2021, practically since this government started. I took the numbers here. For us it was 0.67%, GDP, in 2023 it was only 0.54% of GDP. And essentially advanced countries like Germany give about one percent. So I would appeal to the budget here, knowing that today we're talking about the package, so that the fact that the trend is falling is simply respected. The second comment relates to the volume of resources that are directed to the TAČR and to the GAČR, because the success rate is 15, 20 percent maximum. The reality is that there are rumors that, on top of everything else, it's more or less for the chosen. So it would probably be appropriate to put more money in the public domain. And basically in relation to what the President of the Academy of Sciences has said many times, so to ensure the stability of this basic research, so that we do not have to keep pissing ourselves off with one grant to actually ensure existence and immediately compete for more. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u319	Thank you. And now, Mrs Věra Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u320	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have one additional thing that I've been asked about by those two scientists that I haven't told you, I've already learned that it wasn't all, truth, I've forgotten. And that, they consider whether part of the money collected from gambling could be automatically put on science. So the way I bought it, I'm handing it over because I promised, I really forgot about it in the first performance. And as for the stuff from the prevention fund with the insurance companies, we can pretty much order insurance companies here any number that they have on the prevention fund, and if they don't have the money, it just won't be possible. So really the prevention fund, I'm sure it's being used, it's okay, it has several columns, but those insurance companies are really different, even as I said, here's a few thousand over the course of the year, as they contribute. And it's up to her to decide. So, of course, all the contributions are good here, but I'd like us to have some more certainty for those sick people, like they're sick, there's no doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u321	Thank you, too. And Secretary Helena Langšádlová, with her own facts. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u322	Good evening. I will only briefly respond to what has been said here. And, yes, the resources aren't, the trend isn't entirely optimal. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that compared to the medium-term outlook that your government left us in 2022 and 2023, the funds were increased by 700 million and about 800 million. So we're going higher than your government's proposals for a medium-term perspective in total resources for science and research. But I perceive the proportion to gross domestic product and, of course, I seek an increase. As regards the increase in institutional support, this is gradually happening. Between 2016 and 2021, the so-called institutional support for both universities and the Academy of Sciences increased by about 40 percent, and the trend is gradual so that it is not necessary to use the dedicated support to this extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u323	Thank you, too. Furthermore, the Minister of Health is registered with priority rights. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u324	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I didn't make a technical remark, but he took advantage of priority rights, but I wouldn't be able to combine a medical window, a debate on science, and a way to cover celiac therapy with a diet in two minutes. I'd start with the medical window. And here I thank Professor Adámková, my esteemed colleague, I would like to add a much bigger problem than lymphoma and adenocarcinoma, which is in greater proportion in patients with celiac disease, which, after all, Julek, I think we even had a joint lecture and publication, knows. And of course, the big problem is the jeunization of ileus and the disposal of pecherian plaques and the disorders of immunity of these patients. The problem is that, as defined by European, world and Czech, after all also gastro-enterroological society, celiac disease is when it is verified by enterobiopsy. I had the honour of coordinating the publication published by the journal of gastroenterology and then radiologists, which said that sensitivity of ultrasound examination with contrast cloth, we even defined the index, beautifully on the committee of gastroenterological society, when we were able to diagnose celiaciacs, or I think we were still able to diagnose celiacs, more precisely than from enterobiopsy using ultrasound, combination of jeunization or intermittent invagination. [[unintelligible]] The disability of the juno, ileus, by recounting the clans into one inch then and by increasing the node plus vascularisation of the nodes and after applying the contrast agent, we then evaluated the character of the nodes. And on this basis we have created some kind of index, today we are actually doing a complete examination for the Czech Republic, for Slovakia and with the celiac society, Mr.Ježork, we Ježork actually doing a kind of pseudoscreening of celiac families, because, as my esteemed colleague Professor Adámková mentioned here, it is a hereditary disease, there is a form of inheritance, so it is good to capture it at as little age as possible. And now I come to what has been said here, it is extremely important what Professor Adámková has mentioned and what she has confirmed is a disease. And if it's a disease, I'm convinced she should be treated. And since there is only one treatment for gluten-free diet, which has also been repeated here, we have already tried in the last Chamber of Deputies with our colleague Růžička, a member of the ANO movement who approached me, and I do not see him here today, but most Members on the right and left are not here today, so that is not so. But we have dealt with the problem here, and basically we have moved somewhere in discussions with the then Minister of Education and the Minister of Health. But then, as the covid was and the health ministers took turns quickly, so before I could get on with it, it was new again, so there was some interruption of the debate. However, as soon as I was appointed, we immediately began to continue. I've been called as Vice Prime Minister, I've been appointed by the government, a working group with representatives of education, agriculture, health care and which is actually organized by the State Health Institute, which has its research section. In that group are also representatives of patient organizations who are in charge of celiacs or where the associations of celiacs are. And, de facto, I would like to inform myself that on Friday at the meeting I will approve a pilot project that will take place in several schools where we would like to test actually the proposals for changing methodological sheets, when I say this very simply, which must be published by the Ministry of Education and so on and are to concern the food basket, the possibility of heating pre-filled boxes for celiatics, which is extremely important in microwave ovens. And why didn't we support the tax reduction? For one simple reason. She clearly put it in the doctor's words and said it. On the contrary, we would like to go along the way, and here I would like to ask for cooperation across the political spectrum in the health committee, the debate, the bill that I would like to put forward next year, in January, February, I would like you to get, if God willing and somehow the diligence and diligence of the officials of the Ministry of Health, which I think will be a lesser obstacle than the grace of God, so I would like to give you the law for informal discussion sometime in September, October, before I leave it in internal commentary proceedings. It concerns health insurance. And we would really like the diet for celiac patients, which is ritified with enterobiopsy, to be fully covered as a treatment, as a treatment procedure, and to be covered primarily by those under the age of 18, because there is a huge problem until the middle mucous membranes develop. The proposal is being processed. That means we're acting on several lines. We would like to get to the schools, and I believe that this will succeed, because there was absolutely no dispute between the opposition, the coalition, we were working on it, as I said, already in the last parliamentary term. I, for the reason that I have been in both the agricultural and health committee, which my colleagues from the agricultural committee will surely remember that I have abused them with what is cultivated and behaved, so for this reason we would like to move this here so that we can get it into schools, especially schools, and on the other hand, we would like it to be fully or partially paid. The same applies to phenylketonuria, and we are having a very intense debate with diabetes, with diabetes, where today it is not recommended as diet treatment. But the professor probably knows that better than I do, because this is not my strong suit, this issue. Well, that would be the celiac and the plan. Therefore, although I would of course welcome the reduction in the tax, so because they went into this experiment in Slovakia and in some countries, and it did not lead to what those patient organisations wanted, you mentioned it here too, so the price did not fall because the producers are relatively few, it is limited. The last thing that has to do with this, we created, together with colleagues from the agricultural committee, or with colleagues from the Academy of Sciences of the Agricultural Section, Minister Langšádlová, a meeting with Professor Pospíšilová from Brno, Professor Slabý, who is now the head of the Agency for Health Research and was actually your advisor or previous premiere for science and research, whom I also appointed as head of AZV for these reasons, so we created a group that deals with genetics and breeding. I hope that I will be able to introduce the programme to the Government sometime in October and then to the Chamber of Deputies. And here we must be aware, and I think that Mrs Balaštíková knows this very well because we were there together on a visit, that there is a very strong breeding institute, which managed to breed gluten-free wheat or with a very low proportion of gluten. Professor, I just lost that name, and she published it from the institute in several journals from the first quartile. That means we'd like to connect this area, too, and we'd like to strengthen, say, the primary production. I started dealing with some manufacturers to get them involved. And we're also dealing with the possibility of, let's say, approving a medical device and a medical device, which means, that's this right here. As far as funding for science and research is concerned, and here I dare to pass on my soup, I support it, I completely agree with what Minister Langšádlová said, and I would like to document it at the Agency for Health Research, where I think that, as Professor Špičák, who, after all, is the solver and successful solver of several grants, Professor Adámková knows very well that last year's budget grew in the year before last and that even this year it will increase the efficiency. I think that we have fulfilled what we have been saying in the past period, and now it has not been political regret, but professional regret, and I apologise to the other Members that we are now dealing with something that is a highly academic debate, so that perhaps it has been a distraction. And now the evaluation, the assessment of the AZV, I think it's much more positive. I'm sure that's where the satisfaction is. That too was why I asked Ondřej Slabý and why I appointed the professor as head of the AZV and there were changes that I think can be seen very positively. So I'd like my coworkers and colleagues, if anyone's still this creepy and watching us, just make sure they don't have to worry about money going into biomedical research. On the contrary, the sum will increase year on year. It's increasing. On the contrary, we want to focus on the quality of grants, on the selection of grants and on, say, further shifts in methodology. Well, I hope I've distracted all my doubts. And I am extremely happy and thank you very much in advance for this cooperation about, it really matters to me both to get gluten-free food to schools so that it can be really either prepared if there are more children there, it doesn't make sense if there is one child, two children, or to heat up pre-prepared packages that will be co-financed. [[21.20 hours]] And the other thing I'd like to... Because this is a journey that is very interesting and quite common in some countries. The second thing I want is for us to really get into the Health Insurance Act, and here I promise to start that fall next (?) September - October, I'd like to get him into that informal debate in October. I hope there'll be another health committee at the Ministry that we'll discuss it and discuss it in detail by the end of the evening, so I'd like us to think about the proposals we're preparing and put forward where this should be part of them. Well, thank you very much, and I think that the subject is extremely serious, and I believe that there will be a consensus here that we will not have a political but professional discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u325	Thank you very much. And Mrs Věra Adámková will respond to the facts again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u326	Thank you once again for the floor, Madam Vice-President, thank you for what you said. I'd ask rhetorically now, so first of all. The ladies who asked me as members of the coalition parties have now heard the Minister's statement, so I'm assuming that more money will really go into science. Anyway, thank you, ladies, for turning to me. You see, you ask a man, and he's not really afraid. As for the other thing, and that's celiac, thank you for that, too, because I would like to make a rhetorical question here, please nicely, do you know what the biggest problem currently is, then, the coalition? Zero communication. What I'm saying here is absolutely factual, look at how many minutes exactly right, and for that I thank you for all the comments we spend here in this discussion. If we were invited, if we knew you were working on it, of course I wouldn't ask about the Chamber of Deputies, of course. But thank you for that anyway, I'm sure we're going to take a very active part in all these things, because those patients, believe me, I'm telling you again, they don't really care what the doctor thinks politically. They want us to help them, and of course we're there to help them. So that is why I had to open this topic here and thank you, of course, for the positive expression. And I assume the Minister is in full swing at the next meeting, so I'm sure we'll be communicating. And please, nicely, here you can see that not communicating really pays off, but the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u327	Thank you. The debate raised two more factual ones, namely Mr Stanislav Berkovec and subsequently Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u328	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to remind you now, and now I speak more like a person who is in a journalistic environment and who is also a member of the petition committee, so I would just like to remind you that on the portal, which is actually dedicated to patients or a gluten-free diet celiac.cz, there is a petition at this time, the current state of the petition signatures precisely for the introduction of the treatment allowance was currently 4 thousand signatures at the beginning of June of this year. You all know that if it's 10,000 signatures, it's a public hearing on the petition committee, which, of course, is what sympathizers and patients want. So they don't hesitate. As far as I know, the celiacs are roughly 25,000, so I'm hoping that this activity will succeed, too, just reminding her. And, of course, I thank all my colleagues and the Minister for his efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u329	Thank you, too. And the last de facto - Mrs Ivana Mádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u330	Thank you for the floor. My question is still for Professor Válek, if I understood correctly that the remuneration from the basic fund for celiac will be linked to the performance of enterobiopsy. And I want to ask you, if I understand it that way, if it's not a concern that they're going to increase the cost of having to perform the performance so that the doctor can prescribe the diet that will be paid for from the basic fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u331	Thank you. And the reaction in two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u332	I'd leave it when I'm ready with the text of the law, it's really glowing. I'm getting somewhere now - I don't want to get kicked out of the gastroenterological community. That means I'm getting on very thin ice and I see Jula, I see Professor Špičák, and I'm a little scared. Let's fight like politics, and in medicine, I'd like to stay where I am, and I wouldn't want to be - okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u333	Thank you. Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. Mrs Adámková is also reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u334	Thank you for the floor. By your means, Minister, I don't have to worry so much, I have a gastroenterologist's husband, so I know that today for the diagnosis of celiacs is not a condition performed by the enterobiopsy of the intestine, but there is a possible combination of genetic examination plus the positiveness of specific antibodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u335	Thank you. Mrs Věra Adámková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u336	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Thank you, my esteemed colleague, Dr. Bělohlávková. I wanted to say the same thing, but please nicely, it's okay, we're going to talk about this in the preparation of the law, because there will have to be professional societies, and at least in children, this is no longer required for the diagnosis of celiac disease, the enterobiopsy. It is an unnecessary examination, which is invasive and has, of course, a number of complications. But we'll talk about it, we'll protect the minister, don't worry, if that's all it is, we'll be right behind you. And if you talk to us, maybe we'll be more. But it depends on you because you're not talking to us, so then we have to bother other colleagues here with these professional things. But I hope it is not that uninteresting, so thank you very much, Mr President, through Madam Vice-President. If you want, we can even toughen up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u337	Thank you. The Minister will respond with one more factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u338	Thank you, Madam President. I'm so sorry, I can't do that. I wouldn't sleep. I remember - you know, you guys talked. They didn't talk, they talked, they didn't talk, and what on earth were you doing here? Long, Široký and short-Krátkozraký, Cimrman. I had to say it, I'm sorry. Of course we talk and we have to talk more. I understand, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u339	Thank you. This brings us back to the general debate to the duly signed up Mr Strýček. I'll still be able to load two apologies waiting here. She apologizes to Vice-President Věra Kovářová from 21.15 hours for personal reasons, and Mrs Jana Krutáková from 21.15 hours also for personal reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u340	Have a nice late good evening, Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, Dear colleagues, I would basically - of course, it has already been said a lot here, but, nevertheless, allow me to express my opinion here as far as the tax package is concerned. As already mentioned, the government has presented us with a set of measures to contribute to the recovery of the state budget. I also personally call it a tax package. Next year, according to the Ministry of Finance, there should be a positive effect - or, according to the Ministry of Finance, the positive effect of this package is over CZK 94 billion and nearly 148 billion after two years. One thing to point out here is that, in addition to savings in government spending, of course, there will be an increase in taxes on employees and companies. So I would like to stop now with an investigation into these expenditures, which, as has already been said, I think this has been discussed very closely by my colleague Brabec, where national subsidies are being cut off, amounting to about 54 or 55 billion, in the following breakdown: industry and trade of 20 billion, agriculture of 10.2 billion, transport of 6 billion, local development of approximately 3 billion, education of 2 billion and the rest of CZK 13.4 billion. First of all, the government intends, as mentioned, to save about 55 billion on these national business subsidies. If I remember correctly, this promise has already been questioned by President Schillerová, who pointed out in the debate on the Czech TV that the analytical material that was essentially released for this package has - I do not know if 11, 12 pages, but basically 6 lines are devoted to cutbacks and it does not explain where it will be cut. [[21.30 hours]] The Minister of Finance's response was that we would know when the draft state budget for next year comes to the House. The Coalition Council has therefore only ordered savings for individual ministers, and in my view this may be an impossible task in some cases. For example, according to this year's budget, the Ministry of Industry and Trade can spend 54 billion, and in the next year it should be 20 billion, but it can hardly save 22 billion, which according to the law must pay electricity producers from renewable sources and, of course, it is not worth interfering with 20 billion other subsidies that are from European sources. The Minister of Agriculture can get into similar difficulties, I will not discuss this completely in detail - 33 billion of subsidies to farmers and food professionals are from the European Union and another 5 billion are from Czech sources. Thus, purely national subsidies for milk or pork production can easily be abolished, but they amount to only 2.7 billion this year and, of course, this would mean a further reduction in the competitiveness of our farmers. In view of the fact that this is essentially the largest spending savings, I certainly think it would deserve more justification or at least some framework data on how the ministers want to secure these savings within the various departments. In the context of the expenditure investigation, further adjustments are made, namely, adjustments to the operation of the State of 11.2 billion, with operating expenditure in all departments to be reduced by 5%. I will now use a little bonmot of former Minister of Finance Kalousek, who said on Twitter himself that he would be interested in whether this savings will include the abolition of three new ministries - as he said on his Twitter and even called for it. There will be a reduction in the number of salaries in the public sphere of CZK 9.7 billion and other expenditures of CZK 3 billion. So I would like to mention or suspend on one thing that essentially these savings in these state expenditures are really very unspecific. It's relatively built on water. No one knows which department what and how. And then when we look at the revenue area, it's already quite specific, and here the government, unlike spending, can basically be very specific. When we look at the revenue, there are some adjustments. I'm just going to say at random here: increasing corporate tax to 21 percent of the 19 percent so far, which should be about 22 billion, increasing contributions to the FDA of 7.5 billion, re-establishing sickness insurance for employees of 0.6 %, about 13 billion, raising real estate tax, that's up to double, so there's 9.3 billion, increasing excise taxes on tobacco products, so I'm not going to contradict that, because it's obviously in agreement. In addition, there are about 7.6 billion mentioned cancellations of about 22 tax exemptions, where it is mainly a reduction in the tax on the wife, the abolition of the kindergarten tax, the abolition of the tax on the student, the abolition of the exemption of non-cash benefits and so on, and so on, my colleagues have already discussed this several times. Then there is an adjustment to personal income tax, which is 2.7 billion, which basically means a shift in the threshold of 23 % of personal income tax from four times to three times the average wage, with the average wage now being around CZK 40,000 and the higher tax being paid by employees with a salary of approximately CZK 121,000, currently roughly CZK 161,000. Furthermore, these are not least contributions from the labour agreement, where two limits will be laid down for participation in employee insurance, which works on the basis of the DPP, which amounts to approximately CZK 2 billion. And the other revenues are shown here for about CZK 1.7 billion. I understand all this, of course, but I still resent the disproportion between the state's spending and the revenue that this is justified in a very specific way, whereas it is really very vague with the expenditure, so in my opinion it would really deserve a better explanation. What makes me spicy about this recovery package is that it essentially goes quite opposite to the repeated promise of the right-wing parties that two-thirds will be on the spending side - the operation and spending of the state and only one-third on the revenue side, which is raising taxes. When we look at it, the reality is actually completely opposite, because the package presented actually means a total savings of 93 billion, but of which at least 80 percent, that's 73 billion, represents an entirely ordinary tax increase. For me, this is basically one of the highest tax increases in the Czech Republic's modern history, by 73 billion, which, once again, is completely contrary to the government's programming statement, according to which the savings on the expenditure side of the budget are to be the dominant source of savings. I have already mentioned here in my technical opinion that this tax package is anti-growth because basically everyone knows that this tax increase will burden both our companies, the self-employed and the families themselves. In my opinion, any higher tax burden on legal entities is a very bad signal for the Czech economy, it would only further reduce its international competitiveness, and this would, of course, be negatively reflected in the volume of corporate investment, which has already fallen significantly due to higher energy prices in the Czech Republic than in other countries. I know that some of the foreign mothers of companies are already dealing with this by cutting off investments in the Czech Republic, because the red warning light is flashing more and more frequently in the Czech companies' assessment of production costs. That is also one of the main reasons why I cannot support this package. I would like to mention one more thing that I think my colleagues have already mentioned here, and that is the electronic record of sales. At the time when the EET was canceled and it was predicted that by shutting down the EET the state would lose a relatively large tax return, then according to the Ministry of Finance's decree, the amount of CZK 12 billion for the first, second wave was spoken at that time, in case of the start of the third and fourth, it would have been another 6 billion. These benefits of the EET were not only on the side of the state but also on the side of the employees. In sectors affected by EET there was professionalization and transparency, for example, in hospitality, which, of course, the state was also raising more money in the field of social insurance. Of course, the problem with shutting down the EET is the transition of part of the economy to the grey zone, where, of course, there is a cancellation of cash-free payments, and part of entrepreneurs again prefers unregistered cash revenues compared to registered credit cards, which we are seeing in full on the air at the moment, where more and more restaurants appear, where we simply see cash only, we do not accept cards, cash only and so on and so on. Of course, this is what is happening and there will be significant tax evasion. And what is completely paradoxical for me is that, in fact, after the cancellation or shutdown of the EET, which has been agreed here at the House, votes are now beginning to be heard about the legalization of cashless payments. So for me The Civil Democratic Party, which, even within the coalition, has basically been the bearer of this electoral pledge on the abolition of the EET, has fulfilled this pre-election promise, but on the other hand, completely flagrantly violates the pre-election vows it has made to its voters regarding non-tax increases. Perhaps these 12 billion today would help to avoid the need to increase by so much real estate tax or other tax. I would say one more thing here, namely that what must be realized is that, of course, last year and this year, ordinary people or ordinary citizens in the Czech Republic are paying back our public debt by means of very high inflation, the so-called inflation tax, while from next year they will be paying them completely unfocusedly, through a whole series of measures, including an increase in just a few types of taxes, which I have already mentioned here, which the government is presenting in the framework of the tax package presented. [[21.40 hours]] For me, the reason is obvious. In the next year, of course, if inflation were to fall as forecasted and inflation tax would, of course, no longer be as much as this year or last year helping the government to depress public debt relative to GDP. Of course, this year's and last year's double-digit inflation also inflates the GDP indicator, because this indicator includes not only the quantity of goods produced and the services produced, but also the prices. And this price, and thus the entire GDP indicator from the definition, is increasing just rapid inflation. Even the rapidly increasing debt is then even more pronounced in the increasing GDP indicator more easily dissolved. That is also one of the reasons why I think that is why the government is coming up with this consolidation package right now. As I have already said, the inflation tax is essentially being paid off by all citizens today in the form of more expensive food, more expensive electricity for their own household, and from next year onwards, and then both citizens and companies will face higher taxes as a result of putting this tax package into practice. In fact, the increase in taxes will have a very negative impact, in particular, on the low-income and, in my view, partly also on the medium-income population in the form of an increase in taxes as well as on increased prices for services or products to which increased VAT is written. The fact that a pretty long line of taxes and taxes will eventually increase can only surprise someone who naively believed in government promises that taxes will not increase, which, of course, was said by Prime Minister Fiala a few months ago, as has already been said several times. For me, not so much the tax package, but this is actually the biggest loss in, because of course this tax package - a package or a reform - you're going to get your pension reform here eventually, but for me it's that the cabinet basically promised something completely different from what they are currently doing. [[unintelligible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u341	Thank you, too. Mr Ondřej Babka is also registered, but the debate also raised a factual remark by Mrs Berenika Peštová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u342	Thank you for the floor. So I would like to follow up on my previous speaker, and I would like to ask Minister Stanjura here when we were discussing the cancellation of the EET, so I don't know, Minister, if you remember it, but we had a little gunfight about why the cancellation was happening, and I warned you that what exactly my previous speaker said would happen means that cash payments would be preferred against credit cards. I've told you this, and you've been suffocating here, there's no way this is gonna happen. I remember it so well, I might as well find it. I'm not gonna do it because I think you remembered because you quickly volunteered. I just want to ask how it's possible that, when you told me it would have absolutely no connection, why I'm almost - I'm not saying, I'll never pay, but I'll only pay in supermarkets. And if I'm trying to pay in those smaller stores where I used to pay with my card and it was absolutely no problem because they were connected to the terminal, they're gonna tell me today - cash only. And you've been telling me this could never happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u343	Thank you. And the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u344	I don't really remember it, but I don't rule out that it was. I certainly wasn't suffocating. I'm never suffocating, but okay, that's your interpretation. Ask the shop, don't ask me. [[unintelligible]] They took your card to the store last week, and now they didn't, so ask the owner or the owner why they're doing it. [[unintelligible]] But it's the mentality of the EET. First of all, we don't have numbers. Once we have the numbers, we can see if the trend is or isn't. We don't have numbers. If anyone has the numbers to present them to us, let's see if they're credible about what the source is, I'm not defending the debate at all. But the shortcut - who takes cash is a thief... [[Janulík from the bench: That's right!]] That's right, says Mr. Janulík. Mr. Janulík, he, so gets to say - whoever takes the cash is a thief. [[unintelligible]] [[unintelligible]] I'm us. [[unintelligible]] I just don't think so. [[Voices from the diaper.]] I don't think so. Sometimes I pay cash voluntarily, even if there's a card. You think I'm paying for this, thief? When they pay cash at the hypermarket, are they thieves? It's just that the mentality that a person who only accepts cash payments is a thief is something I reject. If you feel like someone's stealing, do what the law tells you. I don't feel that way. When we have the numbers, if the number of card operations has gone up or down - I don't really have them - then we can talk about whether or not the trend has happened, it hasn't happened. [[unintelligible]] Just a reminder... even for members of the ANO movement that the EET has not been operational since March 2020. Since March 2020, the EET has been disabled, not since 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u345	Thank you for keeping time. And it doesn't surprise the storm of fact. Madam President Alena Schillerová and then two others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u346	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I remember, Minister, when you defended the abolition of the EET here, your argument was fundamentally based on the rise in the number of payment transactions. I told you here that part of it was caused by the introduction of the EET, and to a large extent it was caused by the covid. Why we shut down the covid, I'm not gonna be here because I only have two minutes to remind you, that's what I've been reminding you of x times. And did you see the tsunami cash only? Did you see that? I asked. I sat in Karlovy Vary on the main class, (in) such a very nice, fancy cafe, surprised that I can't pay with the card I'm used to. And I asked the valet very politely, why can't I pay with my card? And she was telling me - what do you want me to say? Try asking the owner. Did you see the queues in Ostrava? You're from the Moravian-Silesian region at the Twitter festival? [[Flying?]] Those huge fronts in front of the ATM? I dare not say that a person who doesn't take cards is a thief, but I dare say - and you often and often like to talk about values - I want freedom. I want freedom to pay. If I want to pay with my card, I want to pay with my card. And if I want to pay cash, I pay cash. But there's no freedom here. Here's the tsunami cash only. And before that, it would be hard for you to close your eyes as head of the state register. I think if you look at the VAT implementation plan and the result, I certainly wouldn't be calm about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u347	Thank you. And now I'm just going to read the order of fact. Yes, Mrs Berenika Peštová first, then Mr Miloslav Janulík and Mr Jiří Mašek. Please, madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u348	Thank you for your word. Minister, I asked. I asked why I couldn't pay with my card. And I've been answered - if there's no more EET and we don't have to send it to that terminal, then actually, the motivation isn't there anymore. So basically -- so they canceled the terminal, so I'm walking and paying -- and so it's true that I'm so used to it, it's already in my watch, it's on my phone, I think we're all used to modern technology -- and I'm not saying it's nice when you're in a smaller town and you have to go somewhere to get some cash, and otherwise you don't stand a chance. And that's what I am... but really, if I didn't tell you at the time that it was going to happen and that you were going to push it into the gray economy, because then it could be like that - in the warehouse of goods and other things and we're going to play with sales... and I'm saying, yes, I don't have the numbers, I'm just asking, then I just raised the fear and you told me that this isn't going to happen, and on the contrary, it's going to happen the other way around, that we're going to pay more with cards and less cash.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u349	Thank you. Mr Miloslav Janulík now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u350	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, you know how it is. It's not like I'm saying that anyone who wants cash is a thief, but -- who only wants cash, who has terminals up to now, and suddenly just wants cash, so I'd almost put it there. This discussion, I think it's irrelevant, because he's gonna judge the time, the way he judges us all, and he's gonna judge you. [[21.50 hours]] And we can explain that black is the darkest shade of white and white is the lightest black. That's what you're good at. Then, when the arguments run out, it's an ad hoc argument, but ad personam. I've been watching you here a long time to know how it is, but just to defend the indefensible, I'd say it's better to move on with silence. I might have taken it if it was measured the same way everyone is, like Patrik says, but it's not measured the same way to everyone because some people just can't say, we're just taking cash. There's no way, there's no way. It's not a technical issue at all today, I'd say. Everyone's got it on the phone. I live on the border with Austria, no one can imagine. They envied our EET. And you can repeat it a thousand times: a dirty suspect and all that bullshit, but it's gonna end up convicting you, and it's gonna be like this life is gonna outrun you, and it's gonna show up where the truth is. Maybe I won't live to see it, but I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u351	Thank you. Now, Mr. Jiří Mašek. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u352	Madam President, I would also like to see the Minister. When we were arguing about EET here and your side was bothered by EET as a symbol, it just bothered you. And when you were looking for arguments, why not, one of such strong ones, and that was probably something to think about, it was that the number of cashless payments was increasing and that it was rising in a significant way. And your argument was, and it was possible to think about it, that it would eventually be captured and that it would only be a temporary matter for EET. And then, Minister, you even argued with numbers because you were ready. You knew how it was going, and you argued with those numbers. I'm not an expert, and I don't remember them in detail, of course. And now you're saying we have to wait for those numbers if it's really happening that you won't buy a card? We can see that. If you take a card with you and walk around Old Town, you don't buy a roll on a card. So it's really a problem, and this is about the EET and your argument, I really, really remember that very well. And one more comment about shutting down the EET in 2021, I believe, in March. It wasn't that EET failed, but it was disabled, and now I'm really gonna say my personal opinion. I see it today as a mistake, because at that time, the EET could have been the objective criterion for paying out targeted support to individual entrepreneurs. And we wanted to relieve them at the time, it was also, of course, as always, a little bit of your impulse, and in this request we actually granted, and we shut down the EET then. I think it would be a shame that today we would have very good experience of it, it would help us eventually in the covid and we wouldn't even discuss it today. You might have 20 billion in your pocket every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u353	Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Volný. The discussion then raised further factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u354	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, only Minister Stanjura couldn't have thought I wouldn't join this. Not that I'd like to do it, I'd probably like to be home, too, but I can't not join because I was one of the symbols along with Mr. Babiš, here with Alenka Schillerová, starting the EET. We have fought several fights together and with Mr Kalousek, very fierce, around EET on Czech television and various things. And it really touched me a lot, the cancellation. And once again, I have to repeat the paradox. When I was one of those guys who pushed for it, I used to reap from a lot of my friends, and you fed it, of course, like our opposition, and I don't blame you, it was just your opinion that I was a villain and that I wanted to steal from them, that I wanted to complicate their lives. And what's just going on? World, wonder, now that it's been canceled, they said, "Honza, do something so they don't cancel." It's stupid. It's working. We've all gotten used to working with it, and it really equals the entrepreneurial spirit or the business climate. So I got whacked twice. But what happened now, the fact that cash only is absolutely unprecedented everywhere, that is, here is a clear proof that it was a gross mistake and that the state is losing a lot of money, and unfortunately we have to open it this way at the time of the package, the recovery package, now it's just tax. Maybe one day it'll be healthy when you put the $80 billion in that budget, so it's right here. I'm sorry. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u355	Thank you. And now, Mr. Vít Vomáčka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u356	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully and I think that whether someone is taking cash or not, or taking a card, is it possible or cannot be true that it is a very subjective feeling. And I respond to my colleague, Mr Mašek, who said here in Prague, Lesser Town, you can't buy a roll or a roll. I'll argue with you. I was in Prague all weekend last Saturday, Sunday. I used my card all over the place without a problem. Today, when I go to buy cigarettes, postage stamps, postcards, specifically here on the Lesser Side, they take my card. And so I reject your Prime Minister's statement that there's a cash tsunami going on here, you said if I'm right. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Please, through me.]] Through Madam President. So I reject this statement, and I think it's a very subjective feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u357	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Jan Bureš, then the Prime Minister will be next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u358	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like two views on this material. The first one is, if I pay a thousand in cash in the garage today, the owner of the car service spends the same thousand in the shoe store, the owner of the shoe store does the same thousand in the market somewhere else. It's still that $1,000 no charge. If this transaction starts without cash, it will always be deducted from the handling fee on both sides, which means both for the payer and for the payee. If I found the right way, in 2021 the Čech made a total of 1.8 billion payments with credit cards, the share of cash-free payments was somewhere around 65 percent, which means that somewhere around 2.78 billion of all payments could have been made. The average amount of payment by card is 415 kroner, which means that if we take into account all statistical data, it is 2.78 billion, if all cash-free, times 415 kroner, times 2 %, and that the charge of 2 percent is relatively low, it is usually up to 4 percent, which, let's say, means 2.3 billion of fees per year that you pay to banks. That's the one look. So it's quite an interesting deal for the banks to which these funds remain. The other look, maybe I'll go back there. I remember our former founder, Václav Klaus, and he said it very simply: Dear citizens, you are the owners of the money, you decide where you come from and where you spend it. [[Time warning]] Spend it there...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u359	Time, please, is really up! Thank you. And now Petr Fiala, Prime Minister, is signed up with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u360	There are two things we can talk about. One thing is whether in recent weeks or months there has been a restriction on the ability to use cashless intercourse. Based on your impressions or your experience, which I don't question, you say you do. That's what the Treasury Secretary says we don't have numbers. We don't really have any numbers like that, and if you do, I'm sure we'll deal with that. However, another claim is that as a result of shutting down, the cancellation of the EET leads to restrictions on cash-free intercourse, and it simply is not true. We've got numbers for that, and there's a lot of them. From 2018 to 2022, the number of cash-free payments increased by at least one third according to various data and increased continuously. [[2.00 hours]] I can also show you some of the statistics available on the Internet that are based on different data, and they actually agree on the increase. If we shut down the EET at the beginning of 2020, there is virtually no effect, on the contrary, the cash-free intercourse is constantly growing. So these are the numbers, and these are the facts, and by 2022, we have the numbers, and we know it quite convincingly. If lately for any reason, but it can't be shutting down the EET, it doesn't work here for a lot of years, if for some reason there's a reduction in cash-free contact, let's prove it on numbers and start dealing with it. We're not defending that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u361	Thank you. President Alena Schillerová is now registered, then Mr Lubomír Brož, Berenika Peštová, Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u362	Well, I only have two minutes, so I'd like to respond to all the previous speakers. I don't want to blame the restaurant owners, businessmen, I don't want to point them out at all, because I'm pointing you out. You let it happen. You have made it possible that this is happening and that it has - the year is off, Prime Minister, with permission, or the year is cancelled. I'm sorry for the vague expression. That means, of course, it has some time. And if this information comes out every day, well, then you'll be waiting for the numbers. Those numbers also need to be assessed on what segments this concerns. And again, I want to say, I'm in contact with the Small and Medium Business Association, I'm in contact with the restaurant representatives, I don't blame them. They don't like it, because of course it has a domino effect. If you go after the main street in Karlovy Vary, there was a festival and you go - actually one restaurant, one cafe, the other cafe, the shop, it has a domino effect, because whoever doesn't do it is obviously at a competitive disadvantage. Even, Minister, we had an exit meeting there, and part of our team slept at the Thermal Hotel. And they went to see, not to play, but to see the casino that's in that hotel. So in your own state hotel it says in the casino that is operated there, cash only. Is that normal? Certainly not for me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u363	Thank you. Now, Mr Lubomír Brož, will Mrs Berenika Peštová be prepared? Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u364	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would react here in particular, by your means, to my colleague Bureš, because what he has shown us here, this economic explanation in the 21st century, when, in particular, the five-calice government is calling for digitization and other things, so that when a thousand-corona is circulating around us, it still loses its value, and that banks have two billion out of it, please, what kind of demagogy is this? It's true. So we'll be back. So from this point of view, it would be best if we cancel the credit card payments. Yeah, so is that the current government trend or what? Sure. Yesterday, you were my friend for a run. He runs five times a week, doesn't carry money because he doesn't need it. She didn't feel well, so she stopped by the garden restaurant that she's running around, and she says she needs to buy herself a drink. Cash only. So she said she didn't, and if they don't at least give her clean water. They saw her buy something, so they took out the terminal. Is that normal? You're talking about subjective feelings. Go to the people. Go! And when you tell people, go there with your money, where you just want it, we as people want to go everywhere and pay either cash or credit card. To have a choice. That's freedom, isn't it? Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u365	Thank you. And I will just recapitulate the order: Mrs Peštová, Mr Brabec, Mr Mašek, Mr Novák. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u366	Thank you for the floor. I hope the Minister isn't leaving because I want to respond to him right now. And he's probably leaving. In any case, we are a nation so that we wait for something to take effect. And if it's not a certainty, then we're not acting like it, because the law that it is is applies. So if we had frozen the EET, then the nation is waiting to be cancelled or cancelled because the frozen doesn't mean it won't be frozen again, that means it won't pay again. And the Senate went through 14. 11. 2023, it cancels EET, with effect from 1. 1. 2023. And what happens in 2023? The tsunami! That means the nation has already received a clear signal, Prime Minister, a clear signal, you can do whatever you want now. So that's how it all started. So the freezing hasn't frightened them yet, or the freezing hasn't been enough for them yet, but the signal for them was the acquisition of efficiency, and it came to 1. 1. 2023!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u367	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Richard Brabec, then Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u368	Thanks for the word. That's quite a divisive subject. I think the Prime Minister's reaction was to know that he had the information, too. I'm sure he's also out there talking to these people. It's just not a coincidence what's going on. That's the trend. Apparently, Republic trend. Also, Prime Minister, what did you say about the cash-free payments going up on the covideo? Logically, because we had a completely changed lifestyle. It didn't go much, it didn't pay in cash anywhere. Even within... [[Prime Minister Fiala's comment.]] It's like after the cops, 'cause it's basically just like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's, like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's We were buying, or we had the stuff brought home, and the store wasn't much of a place to go. It means, it really changed the style. So I think that these numbers are a lot messed up, that there's no comparison. But what's happening in the last few weeks, months, maybe even weeks, as well as in the fact that, of course, this concerns a number of different hospitality activities that may be open in the summer season, but even more and more junk, it's clear that something is trendy here, which certainly should lead the Ministry of Finance and others to deal with it, because it really is a clear indication that something is happening, and unfortunately, the abolition of the EET created the space. I know he didn't mean it, but we'd say that the next degree is Bureš, so we're going to change slivovitz again for salami. What I have at home or eggs for fat. Then I guess the banks won't charge us, but that's more the problem of how we have pampered banks and how we are, or aren't able to push them, unlike our western neighbors, to make those charges lower for the transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u369	Thank you, too. Mr. Jiří Mašek is now in order and then Mr. Marek Novák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u370	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be short 'cause she was talking about it, Berenika Peštová. He's the big difference between the suspension in March 2021 and the cancellation, when all the EET terminals had and waited to see how it would turn out. Some used them essentially further for their records, and only in December, when it passed through the Senate 2022 with effect from 1 March, things began to happen from then on. If we're gonna call it a tsunami, I don't know, but there's just a drop in the number of options or the possibility of buying a card at all. That's what's happening anyway. And let me remind you of one more thing. Remember how people preferred the card payment at the time of the covide. When we were ordering through Košík. cz and through other delivery organizations like this, they didn't even want to take the paper money into their hands. That's just what was normally paid with a card. Suddenly, the paper money stopped bothering us, we like to take it, and it's starting to show, Minister. You, I believe, have now chosen about 5% less in comparison to VAT, so it may also be the first swallow to start driving in cash. So maybe on January 1, 2023, we can also call it not the beginning of the tsunami in the future, but we can also call it the beginning of a new era of the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u371	Thank you. Now, Mr Marek Novák and so far the last de facto will be prepared by Mr Robert Králíček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u372	Thank you for the floor. I'll be short. You, Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, wanted numbers. She's two. One is historical and one is what you will see very soon. It is historic that, after the introduction of the EET and the introduction of the EET, wages in hospitality increased sharply. Everyone evaluated it just by introducing an EET. Payrolls have risen sharply in hospitality. Watch the trend in a year or two. You'll see it in those numbers, but it'll be too late for you, and you'll miss the pension money again, because you won't have social contributions and you'll be angry how you might miss it again. I beg you to remember that already!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u373	Thank you. And now, Mr. Robert králíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u374	Madam President, Prime Minister, Minister, I would only have a brief response to Mr Bureš's speech, who unfortunately is not here, but I am simply saying that I would say so to his face. I didn't quite understand him, or I was surprised by his approach to paying cash versus credit card, when he almost blamed the banks for the fees and told the billions. It kind of reminded me of Nacherův's famous double standard, when on the one hand he blames banks billions for fees, but on the other hand, you pay them billions for early mortgage payments. So it's a little contrary to what he said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u375	Thank you. She has yet to enter into discussion with Mrs Margita Balaštíková's factual comment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u376	I would also like to add to my fellow Member, Mr Novák, and to you, Madam President. You know, the wages went up because those employees got employment contracts and started to be paid the way it is. I think the Minister of Finance had the opportunity to meet a hotel operator who told him the reasons why EET should never have been canceled. And as the decent businessmen who pay for their employees in health, social, have them on a classic employment contract, and there may be another hotel next door, another restaurant who pays them black, doesn't pay these benefits and, of course, can give them more. Those people will know when they're sick or they're retiring or something else will happen. But I don't think that's what we wanted. And on the other hand, you're looking for money in the Treasury, so what do you want to fill it with when that money just stops flowing to you? And I think that this is primarily about our citizens, those people who are entitled to what they are. And now a lot of people in the hospitality business don't want to be employed any other than the contract, because they've already seen what it is when they're at home and when the welfare benefits come in, they can't make a living out of it. So we're not lying to each other here. This EET had far greater benefits that were unable to prove itself, and I, on the contrary, am doing in agriculture. I was surprised, as the farmers told me, why did you bother, why didn't you fight more? I mean, we wanted it here, too, and the yard sales, so they could be on the EET. You know, even what we didn't really want to do turned out to be what these people wanted to do, because then how does the one who really does it pay fair pay taxes, different from the other guy? Because actually, the guy who doesn't pay these things is gonna take him out at lower prices. That's just the way it is because he doesn't do what he has. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u377	Thank you. Now, Mrs Lenka Knechtová and I will pass the proceedings on to the meeting. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u378	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, we're talking businessmen here, but I almost fainted at the Czech Post Office this year in May when I came up with a property tax bill and wanted to pay it with a card. I was told I couldn't, I had to pay cash. So maybe it would be nice to see why we can't pay with a credit card at the Czech Post Office, when we pay real estate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u379	Good evening. Thank you for keeping time and returning to the debate. Mr. Babka will appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u380	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, thank you for the floor. Let me also comment on this tax package, primarily on specific points, just as my colleagues did. And since I am in regular contact not only with current high school students or university students, it will probably not be a big surprise that I will be primarily concerned with the effects of this tax package on a generation of young people. However, at the outset of my speech, I would like to make clear that the gradual consolidation of public budgets, which is actually being discussed all the time, is not only an important issue for me personally but certainly also an important issue for the ANO movement. Maintaining fiscal stability and improving the long-term sustainability of public finances is important to us, as well as from the debate that has taken place here, it is clear that we have a different approach as an YES movement and you as a government five-wheeler to fiscal policy. And it's just a fact. We can look into history a little bit. In the morning, we also discussed how, and President Cogan mentioned here, that our government was only lucky, but Andrej Babiš or Alena Schillerová, who were the head of the Ministry of Finance, achieved a surplus state budget. And let me just remind you that since the reigns of Václav Klaus, there have been no budget surpluses. The state budget was constantly in a negative balance until the Ministry of Finance took over the two mentioned ministers for the ANO movement. During the time our ministers worked at the Ministry of Finance, we reduced debt from 44.4 percent of GDP to 42 percent of GDP, later despite the unprecedented pandemic crisis that we experienced together, which was a stress test for all public budgets of all affected countries. Despite these circumstances, we left the government with clear results in fiscal policy. And so to speak, or when it comes from your mouth that the YES movement is budgetaryly irresponsible, these views are not based on facts or historical or current. So once again, I recall that we have a clear consolidation plan, and our public finance consolidation plan was presented to our government in 2021 and expected to reduce the structural deficit by 0.5 percentage points of GDP per year, which means gradual consolidation at the level of CZK 40-50 billion, but we will not stop economic growth. On the contrary, the YES movement has always wanted and will always support a fiscal policy that will promote economic growth, so that this growth will help us and reduce the rate of debt. This is, from my point of view, a sensible economic policy or an economic-political strategy and, in my opinion, a more sensible one than the one you are showing today. Well, I might be more specific about our plan right now. Among the main pillars of our presented consolidation are, for example, reducing the amount of money to civil servants' salaries through the merger of agendas in a consistent, reasonable and gradual digitization of government administration, combining these agendas and their cancellations, reducing the individual operating expenditure of state budget chapters in the range of 5-10 percent, and we would also get rid of unnecessary ministries with dozens of your party advisors who certainly do not create any added value. And today there has also been a debate about this, and in the media or at least on Twitter, this is currently working, when three completely necessary ministries without portfolio are mentioned again, whether it is the Ministry of Science and Research or the Ministry of European Affairs. And it has also happened here today that you have gained weight and you have 40 political representatives in your ministries. [[22.20 hours]] When I touch taxes, outside the excise taxes that I'm about to get to, we certainly don't want to raise any taxes in our consolidation plan, because tax growth has a distortion effect on the already mentioned economic growth, which means that raising all these taxes reduces the rate of economic growth, and that is certainly the last thing we need today, i.e. reducing the rate of growth. According to OECD predictions for this year, this rate of economic growth in the Czech Republic is highly below average. It is 0,3 % of GDP, with the OECD average of 1.4 percent of GDP. I mean, to see that in this Czech Republic it lags behind. At this point in time, the basic economic lesson should be: not to take measures that will further reduce growth rates. And I don't think I'm alone in that opinion. I am aware that the Vice-President of the ODS and its economic expert, Mr Skopeček, repeatedly mentions that tax increases have a distortion effect on economic growth and, unfortunately, no one is listening to it at least in this particular case. Instead of raising taxes, the YES movement wants to establish a successful fight against tax evasion. The philosophy of the YES movement already mentioned in this past, which we would apply, is to collect more taxes without just having to raise their rates. This fight against tax evasion or the grey economy not only helps ensure fair taxation of all citizens and all companies, but also, of course, creates the necessary additional revenue for public budgets; the revenue that our budget certainly needs, and this revenue can then, of course, be used to build infrastructure, for science, research, education or solutions to the very issue of public debt. Also, there was a debate here today about the effects of the cancellation of the EET you agreed to, and I would like to predict that this cancellation of the EET will result in a reduction in VAT collection, but that will show time. At the same time, emphasis should also be placed on the effective drawing of x hundreds of billions from the 2021-2027 programming period. I have already mentioned this tax increase, and the only exception that we are, of course, able to accept, and this is predictable for raising certain excise duties, especially tobacco products or hard alcohol or increasing gambling taxes, precisely because the distortion effects in this case in these taxes do not have such a large, i.e. distortion effects on economic growth. Thus, consolidation of the state budget is certainly an important issue for us as an ANO movement, although you are trying to say otherwise here, along with the mainstream media, to say that the ANO movement has no interest in consolidating public budgets. But for us, the consolidation of the state budget should simply not hinder the economy, it should not hinder economic growth, and that is unfortunately what this press and these changes that you represent here today, which will lead to, that is, reducing economic growth. And I feel that you simply lack a plan for the Czech Republic, a plan for the future development of the Czech economy. And the impact of this consolidation package will be felt by the entire company. There has also been a discussion as to who will be affected by the introduction of this tax package. They'll be retired, they'll be businessmen, entrepreneurs, businesses, families with children, but they'll also be young people mentioned. I am recently on Twitter sharing one graph, from which it is perhaps relatively surprising for many that we have one of the lowest shares of a university-educated population from all countries of the European Union, and of course we know that investing in human capital, namely education, is one of the most profitable investments ever. And we today do not see, knowing this, that the government would motivate young people to study. Of course, the amount of positive externalities from the educated population is large. The educated population is essentially capable of both critical thinking, this population can work with misinformation and, of course, it also usually has a higher wage, it creates greater added value, and this logically creates higher additional revenues for the state budget as well. Unfortunately, today's tax package goes completely against what I said a moment ago. I troufnout say that the key topic for students is to cancel the discount on the student, i.e. the discount, which is to at least partially make students feel better about their work. This discount is used by students who earn more than CZK 205,600 a year, which corresponds to average monthly earnings of approximately CZK 17,100. But, of course, over 17,000 a month, it is not just those who are supposed to abuse the higher education system, as we have learned from the mouths of some members of the five-calice. From the five-wheeler who's head of the professor and the former rector of the college. Dear colleagues, there are thousands of students who have to rely only on themselves for the duration of their studies, and for various reasons they cannot be helped by parents or grandparents, and that they have to work more to finance their studies, they certainly do not make them survivors who abuse the university system. And if we had this information or the Minister of Education would have it that this system is being abused, then we should be dealing with the problem of abuse rather than interfering with the benefits we definitely need for honest-working students. The already mentioned CZK 17,100 per month is certainly not a dizzying income that would be sufficient to cover all the costs that students have, whether they are costs of food, rent in some private rent or on rails, textbooks or dramatically rising energy prices or rising transport prices. Moreover, we must realise that universities are usually in larger cities where life is more financially demanding, not to mention, of course, that students sometimes need money for something else, such as culture, sport, where you are also introducing a higher tax rate with this consolidation package. And unfortunately, if your approach continues to be this way to young people, it will certainly be reflected in their reduced interest to study, which, as I mentioned, will not be good for the Czech Republic according to the graph already mentioned. [[22.30 hours]] We all feel this increase in prices today and we can also look at prices of tracks, which reach up to CZK 12,000 per month in some universities per room, and many Czech universities are planning to increase the price of accommodation on the tracks from September onwards. And of course, everyone, every single student who lives on these dorms, will have to deal with that. And believe me, these students who live on college dorms really don't just study on their own, as the finance minister tried to present himself when he defended canceling a student's discount. The Cabinet of Petr Fiala also decided to go against the students in the agreements to carry out the work. This step, like the already mentioned cancellation of the student discount, can have a negative impact on the financial situation of thousands of young people throughout the Czech Republic. [[thousands]] In the case of labour agreements, income will be retained without insurance from one employer. New earnings will be made on DPP, this earnings will be seen as one whole, regardless of the fact that it comes from agreements from a higher number of employers. And that, of course, turns out to be college students, 'cause they're making a lot of use of the dépépépécs in practice. And that this step will also harm the labour market in general, it is also obvious. What is bothering young people today is the issue of housing, which has already been discussed here today and there has been a debate, it is the issue of housing and the availability of property housing, and here I have to stop again at the fact that you are interfering with building savings. [[was]] Again, it is something that hurts young people a lot, they perceive it a lot, while the construction savings system in the Czech Republic is a long-term proven system that is beneficial for both parties and for the state, but also for citizens, of course. Building savings allow citizens to systematically save from their young age and thus create funds for buying housing in the future. Moreover, building savings contribute to the development and stabilisation of the housing market, and the vast majority of people my age use this product as one of the few forms of savings. And I don't understand why to disturb this functioning system. The relative availability of this product has caused its global popularity. And instead of... or to think a little bit deeper about its adjustment or any adjustment - and, of course, I admit that it is necessary to open up a discussion about the purpose of the funds or, if necessary, to limit the amount of State aid to households, for example, with above-average earnings, but instead, you decided to cancel this product, because that is exactly what happens when the state contribution is reduced to half. [[possible?]] In order to maintain the attractiveness of building savings, I would prefer to compare the level of this support with inflation. And I'm not quite sure yet about the retroactivity of this proposal, but we've convinced ourselves that you don't have much to worry about retroactivity. Leisure activity. In the last year and a half there has been a significant increase in sports areas. In the last 18 months, the sports pitch has increased by a quarter, and this increase in sports prices dramatically limits the ability of young people to play sports, even for many of them, especially for young people who come from economically weaker families, access to sports sites is virtually impossible. This problem is further aggravated by the government's decision to increase VAT to sports activities. This step will lead to a further reduction in the interests of young people by sport, as it logically makes it less accessible. The same effect will also have the abolition of the tax advantage of benefits. The essential part of the benefits that companies provide to their employees is in the category of sports activities. And that, of course, is a worrying development, because, as we know, sport plays a very crucial role in the lives of young people, not only by helping them cope with stress, strengthening physical fitness, or creating a basis for a healthy lifestyle. You've cancelled 75% of the fare discount for students in the past, but I don't think it's worth commenting on again. The fact that the tax package touches not only young people makes me feel like the young government is upset. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. We took turns managing the meeting. I'll read the apology. From 10:45 p.m. for personal reasons, Mrs Olga Richterová apologizes. And we will continue the general debate. Next, Mrs Margita Balaštíková is prepared and Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u382	Good evening, fellow Members, of course I could not assume when I would come in and I thought that the Minister of Agriculture might be present, because my words should belong to him in particular, but I will also address the Minister of Finance, because he is holding the pen that he is cutting in all the ministries. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a consolidation recovery package. I once said he'd make each other sick. Maybe not, we'll see how it goes, but we have a great health minister, so maybe he'll figure something out. What we do to entrepreneurs, families, municipalities, cities is completely, completely unnecessary to say again, to various colleagues and previous speakers. I would like to address agriculture in particular and call on the new Minister and also the Minister of Finance to fight for the interests of the Ministry, which he represents - the Minister of Agriculture, I think - and it did not happen that he is going against the interests of the Ministry of which he is a representative as with the previous Minister of Nekula. We are particularly concerned with cuts in subsidies to support the processing sector, which is responsible for processing agricultural production for higher added value, so as not to export raw materials that come back to us in the form of processed products, but that added value remains in those countries. And I'm glad the Treasury Secretary is here, because that might interest him, which could give him the money to the Treasury. We want to fill the Treasury, so let's go across the street and let's not get cutbacks on our quality agriculture and act like good farmers. Our processors and farmers are, without a doubt, good farmers are, just must not keep throwing themselves under their feet and we cannot make it difficult for them, because they already have a great imbalance in the amount of subsidies compared to other countries. And since you yourself, the missing Minister, are saying that we must be self-sufficient in basic commodities, I expect you to take steps to fulfill these words and stop dividing farmers into large and small, and it will finally be divided into producing and not producing, and in the ranks of our members you will definitely have allies. Another problem for farmers would be an increase in property tax. Of course, our farmers are already struggling with the handicap of lower aid, and this would put them at even more disadvantage. An increase in taxes would, please, be devastating for small agricultural companies and smaller agricultural entrepreneurs, just as it will be devastating for an equally large group of residents in other business departments, where your decision to increase these taxes will reach. In your pre-election vows and in your coalition contract, you have the help of small companies and business individuals, and if that's the help, it's obvious that the coalition contract should be rewritten because it's not telling the truth. [[2.40 hours]] And please note the impact on these areas. The current increase in contributions to the social system will be another step for agriculture to increase food prices. I would therefore like to point out that at the protest event held in Prague in Lucerna in 2022 against changes in the common agricultural policy, where the future Minister of Agriculture was represented by then Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, who verbally promised the President of the Agricultural Chamber Ing in front of the farmer forum. Jan Doležal said that contributions to the social system will be abolished for agriculture for this period. And reality - increase. What does the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs do? He's quiet, he agrees, maybe he's still coming along, and the Minister of Agriculture isn't fighting. So I would like to ask you, Minister Výborný, as a party, to keep these promises, which have been given by your breakdown by the political representative of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs at the public assembly, because representatives of the professional agricultural public have believed these promises of yours, and now, unfortunately, they are all faced with a completely different reality. I will no longer read the list of others, in our view, which is false measures, because my colleague, Mr Kott, described exactly yesterday what cannot be agreed with from an agricultural point of view. I put out these areas, which very sensitively hit the agricultural resort in all its aspects and damage it irretrievably. If your goal is to fight big companies, then I must laugh, because those big companies certainly don't want those steps. No one welcomes them, but they survive. Whoever weeps will be small and some medium-sized companies, or, of course, undertaking physical areas in the field of agriculture. And let's not say that we're helping them because you're destroying them live and the social benefits that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs wants to give him, they just can't save everything. I hope, therefore, that there will be a problem for the premises on the agricultural committee to discuss this. And that you, the Minister of Agriculture, will advocate changes in the consolidation package, and you will be able to convince the Minister of Finance that this will not destroy Andrej Babiš, but will sink a lot of small farmers who do not deserve it, because they are really good. We can make good food. I respect these people. It's a full-time job, it's a job for 365 days a year. Whoever makes animal production never gets off because the cow doesn't care that it's Saturday or Sunday or that you go to church in the morning, the cow has its time, and that's how it is. So I'll be glad if we keep the animal here, make it big and small, and we'll be one of the best in Europe once again. It's been wiped out by other governments, and it's not entirely your fault, but I'll be glad if you stand at the start of getting better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u383	Thank you, too, Madame. Next, Mr Hubert Lang will appear and Mrs Marie Pošarová will prepare herself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u384	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister or Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, allow me to comment on all this. As a matter of fact, we're already here the next day to consolidate public budgets. You call it a recovery package, we call it a tax package. In conclusion, I would also outline some solution that the YES movement has, as we see some things, so that you do not say that we are merely criticizing here. I, when I was preparing for today's performance, I'm not an expert in politics or economics, but I actually saw this huge material, so we also got some preparatory materials from our analysts. Colleague Brabec, through Mr President, who performed here about two hours ago, said something no, certainly not something, with something we could at least partially argue with. I, when I look at the material of the proposal, the impact on young people for leading the government package - I will talk about it, we certainly cannot agree with what is being prepared. Value added tax, VAT changes, we disagree, real estate tax, increases. This means some tax on success - again we disagree. I'll talk about it. Increasing gambling tax - yes, we can agree on certain things here. The impact of the economic growth package - from our point of view it will have a negative impact, and many colleagues here, far more well-founded than I, have talked about it here. Real cancellation of building savings - we certainly cannot agree, because it will be liquidation. Increasing the prices of motorway stamps - an entirely antisocial thing, I will also comment on this. Adjustments to construction excise duties. There are some things we could support. Increasing from corporate entities - we certainly cannot agree. The impact of the tax package at the time of the decline in real wages, so we also believe that this is not a good thing. Then there's this consolidation that I'm going to mention at the end of my speech. And the beekeepers mentioned - they have been mentioned here by several of my colleagues from our club, the previous speakers. That means I would like to make the first point about the implications of introducing a government package for young people. Then I would like to touch the property tax and the actual cancellation of the construction savings. So about the first one. Five-calice plans extraordinary taxation for students, so no group really can be sure of anything at all before this government. This, from my point of view, completely antisocial government does not think of young people. Investment in young people is a friend of course investment in the future of the Czech Republic. To educate people, just to have some perspective, to want to live in our country, it's actually a future generation that will then continue to follow us. It is clear that the government has set up its declarative fiscal consolidation, has only promoted the upside and downside to the citizens it has chosen. We have a category of seniors that you've been targeting, and I'm talking about the category of young people who are in quotes, take it also by the victim of this recovery of yours, from my point of view, tax package. In the first year of its government, the government reduced the discount on student fare. So the first blow to the ligament for young people was, you immediately threw yourself at student fare. The original fare discount, which was 75 per cent, was decided by the government to reduce by 25 percentage points, i.e. to only 50 per cent of the full price. This one, in quotes, is very rapid in principle only for students' budgets and possibly their families. The state budget was to come to about CZK 2 billion by this step. I have a personal experience here because I worked as a educator at a high school where we actually had students from all over the West Bohemia region and believe me or not, it was huge financial assistance for those people when they could just get the discount on a student commuting to that Plzeň when they were commuting from somewhere in Aš and so on from these places. When what happened after your better, happier, right-wing government started, then at our boarding school, I got a pretty big shock, and we even had a lot of applications because not everyone is rich, not everyone is just, like, single moms who had, like, two kids in high school, and believe me, when we got to high school, we just had high school dropouts because the mother wasn't able to actually finance the commuting of that kid to high school. That's how some people count every crown. I'm hearing a million here, a million there, EET cancellations, cool, cool. It's just, it's under my discernment, but he's moving in some possible macro-numbers, but then when we germinate it, we get to the ordinary people, so there's every hundred crown, every maybe 50-coron for teachers and people, and there's also social cases, so there's just a lot of money for those people. According to the Treasury Department, only the students use this discount... The cancellation of the discount on the student, i.e. discounts that at least partially relieve the student financially, is crucial every year, the student constantly preparing for the future occupation can deduct CZK 4 020, that is CZK 335 per month. According to the Ministry of Finance, only students who earn more than CZK 205,600 earn this discount, which corresponds to an average monthly earnings of CZK 17,100. But over the 17,000 a month, it is not only those who are supposed to abuse the higher education system. We have also responded to this, it was such a scandalous statement from my point of view that some students are actually taking advantage of the student status to simply earn some larger amounts and use all possible deductions. [[2.50 hours]] I don't think so. I believe that there are thousands of students in this country who, during their studies, have to rely solely on themselves, for various reasons - we have people from incomplete families, not everyone born with a golden spoon in their mouth. Today it is simply not easy to commute to cities where university universities are, because not everyone lives in Prague, Brno, Pilsen, where there are faculties and then, of course, it's much easier for parents and students, but when you just have to commute there, it costs you a lot of money today. The fact that they have to work harder and if they can finance their studies doesn't make them a feeder, please. So I think that if the student really finds a part-time job or tries somewhere, it can't be looked at - and that's what it was actually said by the current government - that he's some kind of parasite sucked into a state budget that only draws some deductions. We certainly do not think that, and I think that these statements were very inappropriate towards these students working in this way. We don't understand it at all. I repeat to my colleague, Babka, who was performing in front of me on this matter, how can a government that has a former public college rector in charge of it? That's just really alarming. If, if the Minister of Education, who also spoke of it, has any information that the system is being abused, we must address the problem of the abuse, and not sneak out of all benefits, those honestly preparing students that our country certainly needs. 17 100 crowns nowadays is not an income that will suffice the current student, which is actually an adult, to deal with all his payments. It can't be enough for food costs, rent, dorms, teaching aids that he has to buy, or energy, if he doesn't live in a dorm, they share some apartments or transport. In addition, universities are usually in larger cities where life is more financially demanding. I've already talked about it here, that if you really have people in your neighborhood today - and I have people who have kids in college, that monthly cargo is really a rocket when I say it all the time. Today, the government is fighting against college students, making their lives on the railroads more expensive, canceling their tax discounts. If this continues, this will be reflected in a reduction in the interest of young people to study. Does anyone, please, have any interest in not having a sufficiently educated percentage of the future generation? In this case, please, you and the bathtub will pour out the baby. You guys are just gonna take some of these people's benefits, some of those reasons purely economic really cancel the study, and we're getting somewhere we learned about the First Republic, when the rich just studied and the poor, when they didn't have a sponsor, they just couldn't study. After all, we must be interested in achieving as many people as possible the highest level of education to be an educational society. As far as I can remember, in this government's programming statement, we want to be a society that is educational. And you're actually going completely against your programming statement. However, the proportion of university-educated people in the population of 25 to 34 years here in the part of the population that studies or eventually ends in higher education - and it is simply possible to assess it in some way across the European Union - is comparative - one of the lowest in the Czech Republic throughout the European Union. So we have one of the lowest levels of university students here, and with these measures, we are going to create a problem that maybe we're going to fall even further. What can those students do in the summer months? Summer months are an ideal opportunity for students to make money in some way. In practice, they most often choose employment on the basis of an agreement on any work done or work agreements. What happens next year if the recovery package or tax package passes? From next year, however, they must expect that the conditions for taxation of the brigades will deteriorate significantly. In particular, low taxation of gross remuneration up to the limit is the main reason for the attractiveness of labour agreements. So we're going against what's needed here again. At the same time, students working for multiple employers do not pay any premium from either agreement if the gross remuneration for each employer is up to the limit, as the limit is still monitored for each employer separately in 2023 - adds tax advisor to the company. Another thing that's gonna happen to young people. Young people who start a family - and it is probably normal that young people start families and should be interested in young people having children - will lose the so-called kindergarten, i.e. the discount on placing a child in a preschool facility. Again, this is a negative signal to young people and young families. We don't see the government motivating young people to study. The state has a number of positive externalities from an educated population. The educated population is essentially capable of some critical thinking, it can work with misinformation and, of course, it also usually has a higher wage, thus creating higher added value, and this creates sufficient revenue for the state budget as well. I don't see why we should go against this matter. I think we can agree on that here. As I said, college college prices are becoming unbearable. In the last year and a half or so, students have been hit by a number of stressful situations. Housing and food spending is growing. The first wave of track price increase has already taken place, at the beginning of the academic year. However, some higher education institutions also make it more expensive during the semester. So you're counting on some amount, maybe you have a limit set for it from the family that helps you in that case, and you'll suddenly find out that you're going to have, for example, accommodation, energy, dorm meals and other stuff. For example, Strahov Colleges of Czech Technical University increased the price by 16 percent in September, by another 15 percent in early March, i.e. a total increase of 31 percent during one semester. A third if your costs go up and you've got a limit set for it, then what do the students have to cover it for? Students fundamentally disagree with the price increase. Here's the question, when young people often vote for, for example, the Pirate Party. And here I would like to say to the camera, so that young people can think about who was behind them, who allowed them certain benefits, who doesn't want these benefits to be canceled and who just raises their hand probably tomorrow or the day after, or when we get to the vote later in second and third reading, for those things that are actually a liability to them. Many students in the Czech Republic have been struggling with an increase in mental problems in recent years. Sports activities are one of the potential activities that, according to experts, help young people to cope with their studies. My colleague Babka spoke of this, too, through Madam President. Unfortunately, even in this case, the government does not really care that there are statistics that say that there is a mental burden and that the sports help. The government doesn't give it, and that not only do young people appreciate their mental or physical health, the government's five-calice decided to increase their VAT to sport by two percentage points. That means I don't really see a single positive of the austerity package here, or maybe you'll save some money, but there'll be a big minus in that final because we need as many young people as possible to study for us. And if you're gonna throw those people under these negative measures, it's definitely counterproductive. The second thing I pulled out of that package is the real estate tax, where there is a double increase and a regular valuation of this payment, if it is approved. The increase of property tax to roughly double will affect the vast majority of Czech households, because the structure of property housing in the Czech Republic is completely different from abroad. In the Czech Republic, about 80 percent of the Czech population live in ownership housing. It is therefore not possible to compare real estate taxes between EU countries. Here we often see that these taxes are low, so why shouldn't we raise them? As I have quoted here, the trend in the Czech Republic is that a lot of people live in their own houses. I'm from Plzeň-severe myself, where it's basically one village next to another, where people either inherited the houses or built them, saved up for them. And this right-wing government, which, in its particular pre-election vows, said by its leaders - we will not increase the real estate tax - I will mention some of the quotes here, so they do the opposite today. [[23.00 hours]] When these people get to it, I ask, when they've just spent their whole lives trying, either they've inherited some real estate here, or they've taken care of some of their houses by themselves, they've got it under mortgage. I've been paying a mortgage on my house in the country for 25 years, and now I only pray because I don't exactly live in that nearby ring around Pilsen, because, of course, the property tax is much higher there, and I don't really know, if it comes to me then, I might carry it, but there's a lot of seniors, and there's a lot of single-living seniors in those houses, and you want to pick it up like that. I don't know what's awful about that, Mr. Colleague, don't shout, I'd like to finish up here. There's no way to accept the argument that it's just an increase in hundreds of crowns. She's a hundred crowns nothing for someone, as I've already mentioned to students here, like 200, 300, 400 crowns a lot of money, and if these people have one or two properties, because that's what they are, and I don't think we should envy people that they have one or two properties, so then it's kind of going into the money. The Czech Republic has the highest decline in real wages in its history and at the same time from all OECD countries. In this unprecedented situation, raising real estate taxes in society is completely unacceptable from the point of view of the ANO movement. At the same time, real estate prices in the Czech Republic are a major problem. We are in a housing crisis where real estate prices have increased more significantly in the last decade than wages have. We need about 15 annual wages to buy an apartment. Most of all countries within the EU. Therefore, the absolute minimum policy principle should be to do nothing to make housing availability even worse. Of course, we don't want that either. The five-calice steps in raising real estate taxes are really the opposite way. Here I would use the Minister of Finance, who, before the elections when they attracted their voters, and even for these promises, you probably succeeded in part when Mr Stanjura says: He himself proudly refused to increase real estate taxes before the elections. Having a place to live isn't a luxury, he says, we refuse, we refuse higher real estate taxation. The state must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house. I repeat: the State must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and their family. We won't allow an increase in property tax. I repeat: We will not allow property tax increases, esteemed voters. We won't, we won't. The five-wheeler spoke in the election campaign. And what's the reality? Reality is completely different. You know what? Politics is that you don't grieve by promise, they say you will. But I would be ashamed, Minister of Finance, if I were you. You just lured your constituents into false promises. You don't have to say oh. I think I'm right. Why did you lie in front of the voters? Why did you lie to the voters who may have believed you and gotten the votes? I repeat again. We won't allow an increase in property tax. You know what? An electronic clue or some sort of print is tricky in saying something and declaring something, so it's hard to run away from it. There are things that are on the verge, because we can have some kind of interpretation of things, one says it like this, the other may think it like this, but I repeat again: We will not allow property tax increases in any way. The increase in real estate tax in our view will have an inflationary impact. It raises prices again. I think inflation is working out quite well with us because you didn't put energy prices on the line, but thanks to your next steps, you have actually ruined our citizens' savings very well in that year and a half of your government, and this is again very upside-down. This is the exact opposite of what a five-wheeler should be trying to do, or what he's actually saying to people on the outside. We want to make a recovery package. Well, we have the first thing that's purely inflationary. Commercial property owners will certainly transfer tax increases to increase the price of their products and services. Why wouldn't they? Why would they leave it to each other? They'll carry on. Similarly, this will have a negative effect on the rental housing market. Today, a lot of people who live don't have a chance to reach ownership housing at all, given how high mortgages are, what real estate prices are, so they're actually going into rental housing, because if they want to live alone at all, they just have nothing left. And, of course, the owners are going to project it into the increase in rent prices, and the final increase will be paid by the tenant. Do we really want to get involved in this already unavailable housing market for rental housing? The problem will arise primarily in the less economically successful part of the population, which will have to bear an increase in this tax. It's an extremely antisocial move. An extraordinarily antisocial step from our point of view. And I repeat the words of Zbyněk Stanjura: having a place to live is not a luxury. It's not luxury to have a place to live. We do not understand and we do not agree that the poor management of the government's five-calice should pay the municipalities, virtually. citizens of our state. We do not understand why, at a time of housing crisis, when real estate prices increase in relation to average wages, when living standards drop dramatically, five coalitions are making the availability of an already unavailable housing even worse by this step. I really don't understand it, it's just an absolutely antisocial step. The State is not to deteriorate the situation in the housing market, but rather to address it. The ANO movement introduced a number of measures, a combination of rising property prices in correlation with average wages, high mortgage mortgages, huge housing costs. There's energy, aqueous, coiled and inflation, crushing not only young families. Today it is actually affecting middle-income families, when it is known that there is actually running out of money even in the middle-income family, which had not been affected before, so today they are practically living from month to month and are running out of savings. What do we do then? We're gonna run all these people somewhere to work offices for some kind of benefit? That's the target? Spread an umbrella over everyone here to stretch out their hands, even the people who work? Thus, own housing is becoming increasingly unavailable at the moment. Our Minister Klára Dostálová, through Madam President, has proposed a number of measures that have helped this crisis, and we have slowly tried to address it. We proposed steps that were systemic and long-term, but also immediate measures. The construction law, which was also discussed here, would speed up construction considerably, and our government proposed it. Unfortunately, it has been replaced by an amendment that is once again a compromise of the five-wheeler, and completely resigns from the enforcement of deadlines, the representativeness of officials and the uniform methodology and some readability of the established environment. I'm not even talking about solving the property system. The basic key to resolving the crisis from our point of view is, of course, the acceleration of construction, because what is not enough is expensive. If there is a shortage of apartments, the price will logically rise, the rental price will rise, etc. Our plan to solve the housing crisis, so that you don't say we're just criticizing, was pretty clear. We wanted to introduce multigenerational mortgages. They will then extend their maturity to up to 40 years or more with a certain guarantee from the State. Possibility to divide multigenerational houses into separate housing units and instant solution for little money. This would end speculation with flats on certain digital platforms. We tried to activate grant titles to support interest on loans to 5% for selected population groups. Certainly we would not be interrupting state support for building savings, we have systematically tried to adjust and use it exclusively to promote housing, including the motivation of the state to ensure low energy measures. We were trying to create a state developer. The state owned thousands of land at its disposal, and construction could have started there, and the construction could have started. Support PPP projects in the area of rental housing construction. [[23.10 hours]] Problems of people at retirement age, when they could have been solved by building houses of seniors, so-called. Senior housing. We wanted to support significantly the construction of student dorms. We wanted to increase investment in transport infrastructure, enable cooperative housing companies to build and manage flats without unnecessary regulatory administrative barriers, we wanted to open a discussion on the need for selected regulatory connections with the construction process. So it certainly did not occur to us as a middle-right party to fine people prematurely if someone decides to pay off their mortgage early. That's also one of the things you're just suggesting, and it's just an absolutely incomprehensible thing from my point of view. We can expect that the thousands of extra crowns that the state wants to collect on each apartment will be paid again by taxpayers or tenants, says the co-founder of the financial company Patriot Jiří Paták. According to him, rental housing has increased double-digitly in all regions over the past year, so everything you look at has become more than double-digitly more expensive. The change in real estate tax causes an additional increase. A change in real estate tax will lead to a further increase. I repeat for the citizens on camera. He added that compromises stick from the proposed government steps, which will help optically the budget, but will not solve anything as a result. It should be noted that for rental housing, the property tax for the owner of the cargo, which will certainly be reflected in the rental price, was introduced by the Association of Rent Housing. FINNOGO analyst Petr Matáček agrees that the change in real estate tax will affect the rental housing market. It stated that investors renting real estate would regularly reflect this tax up to the level of the rent. So if you don't want to listen to us, please listen at least to the experts who are moving in this area. Everyone's telling you that this just isn't right. It's not okay, five-wheelers, so you're gonna raise your hand here. A whole number of you are mayors, you just have a housing problem in your territories, whether it's rental housing, senior housing, and you just raise your hand for this, this sort of thing where experts across the spectrum tell you it's wrong? The idea of increasing real estate tax is really dangerous, he wrote on Facebook social networks in August 2021 the chairman of the MP club and then opposition politicians of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. The idea of raising real estate tax is really dangerous, I repeat. Here I have a second or third quote from the current Minister of Finance, who spoke quite differently when he was in opposition. So I don't know if any Jekyll & Hyde just suffers from some split personality when he just once says A, then says z, depending on whether I'm in opposition or coalition, but please, a consistent politician can't express himself like that. One day you say aA," one day you say "z," and then what's one to choose from? The idea of raising real estate tax is really dangerous. There's just the sentence, and you just can't get rid of it. I don't understand why the state should punish someone for getting a place to live. In addition, higher taxation is reflected in the rental price, and the only ones paying for it are the tenants. That's not the way to go. On the contrary, as an ODS, we want digitization, simplification of building management and low taxes. I can sign all this right here. Let me be Mr. Stanjura, I will sign all this, but he said this at the time he was an opposition politician and at the time he became Minister of Finance. He's leaking that leaky umbrella on his head, the rain opened up against the price, picking up every duck he needs, so suddenly he's talking backwards? I'm asking, Minister, if you could answer me after, if you still have the strength, to these statements of yours. Why you said that once, you said that once. It really feels like schizophrenia to me. So it's real estate tax. The third thing that caught my eye in the tax package was the actual abolition of practically building savings. Abolishing part of the state aid for building savings at a time when the construction is stagnating, at a time when mortgage interest exceeds dizzying, and no one ever anticipated it, more than 6%, and at a time when more and more people are struggling with their own housing problems. That's not a really good idea. This step significantly reduces the attractiveness of building savings for citizens who want to save on housing or use building savings as a method of investment. It is an actual cancellation of the construction savings. Here, it's just that the product is really gonna be so disadvantageous or so uninteresting that as a lunatic, he's gonna be having some construction savings again today. It is inevitable to realize, please, and again for five coalitions, that in order to maintain the attractiveness of building savings, the State should proceed precisely to the opposite and at least equal the amount of support for building savings on inflation. The reduction in the amount of aid by half at a time of unprecedented inflation, with which the government of Petr Fiala is practically doing nothing, results in the effective abolition of this product, which has been widely used in the Czech Republic. A huge number of people, I've registered somewhere, now don't pull me by the bust, maybe I'm not an expert in the economy, as 2.4 million people just had some form of building savings. Moreover, the abolition of part of the construction savings support will lead to a disruption of the stability and predicability of this system. The state must behave in a consistent way. If someone's been in opposition for four years, then they'll just step into the coalition benches, maybe because the voters won't give him that much confidence, they'll probably go into opposition. You guys are always saying that we're supposed to be state-building, that we should just keep some line that comes across actually a couple of electoral periods, and we're just gonna say once we're gonna start building savings, then we're gonna turn around, we're in opposition, you're in the coalition, and suddenly you're gonna cancel it, we're just gonna win in, like, two years, and we're just gonna cancel it, because we're gonna say that your step wasn't good, and now that poor citizen, he's just swimming in it, and he doesn't know what to think at all. Here, please, we should really behave in a more consistent way and we should just observe and we should agree on this here so that one group doesn't implement it, and the other group doesn't immediately, that's what gets to power, doesn't cancel. People who use building savings or count on it, so it's just something that, as we march, when something just exists, we suddenly change, we just change the situation. They may be surprised by this step and thus lose confidence in state guarantees and support, that is, if our citizens lose confidence in us legislators or in the state of confidence, that is probably the worst thing that can happen to us. Any politician who simply loses credibility, so he should pull himself together and leave. Building savings are one of the basic tools for housing support and real estate investment, which is very important for the development and stability of the real estate market. The abolition of part of the aid will affect the demand for housing and investment and will certainly have a negative impact on the economy and construction sectors. There are a number of simply things attached to it, construction companies and the like, there is a huge choice of GDP and so on. Property prices are a major problem. We are, as I have already said, several times here and going through this text, in the housing crisis. In the last decade, real estate prices have grown significantly faster than wages. To buy an apartment, once again, we need 15 annual wages, it is quite murderous and practically for middle-income people to dream of living in property housing becomes virtually unavailable. Another matter of the tax package, raising the prices of motorway stamps. I noticed here today that Mr. Stanjura said something in the spirit that the road sign, which will rise by 800 crowns, given that it hasn't just been raised by X for years, that there's some inflation, that it's actually as if it's okay, well. I come from a region where, in order to get to work at all, you have to go 45 - 50 km to the place of performance a little better work at all. And if two husbands just take the freeway to work, well, for them, if the road sign picks up at the two cars they need because they don't go to work together, they're gonna raise it by CZK 1,600 a year. And friends, I don't know what bubble you live in, but I'm a person who just comes from a normal environment, and we've got two cars in the family, too, and so if my lady and I give an extra 1,600 crowns, or we don't give an extra 1,600 crowns if I'm not an MP, I'll fucking know. If I go back to normal real estate and go back to work, be some kind of tutor somewhere, then just for me 800 crowns that raise and fucking know it. Maybe for some people it's nothing, yeah, someone goes to massage for 23,000, so maybe 800 crowns won't feel it at all, but 800 crowns is enough money. [[23.20 hours]] Now, why does the state do that? The state will always find, like I said here, find a group, find seniors, find students, find students, just find somewhere to pick it up, because, as I said, we have a lousy highway, we have a few of them, under our government Mr. Havlíček, at least something's been built or built, but just when you go somewhere, you'll always find it on that highway, right, so just, piss or no piss, so you just have to buy that highway stamp, right, and the state will beautifully choose, great, just a simple choice, right? And now we just have some parameters here. Doubtful quality, less kilometers of our highway network. Here we are, some colleagues have mentioned it, when you arrive in Bavaria, you come to Austria simply, so you drive, your fillings fall out, suddenly you come to the highway network. Now I've been to Hungary, they're beautiful roads. Poland, they just beat us all to it, and we're just gonna squeeze people in here, we're gonna squeeze 'em like wet rags, and they're gonna ride those jittery highways. We just put a hundred and fifty in there, didn't we, so we're not gonna drive 150, we're gonna drive 170, and we're gonna smash our mouths on those broken highways. Please, we really can't ask these citizens to hold everything forever, yeah. It's just that the Czech people are like that, we're like that, we're just holding, we're holding, we're holding, we're gonna get loaded and we're gonna get loaded. Look at France today. That's where they started talking about raising retirement to 62 years, and they set fire to half of Paris. We're delicious here, we're cool, 68 years old, yeah, 800 kroner up on the freeway just, and we're cool here, right, we're gonna have a round of applause. [[Let's hear it.]] And you still think, and you still think here on the right side of the spectrum, that it's okay, just. You lie to people here, you just make things up, you say, we don't raise taxes. Pic, we'll raise taxes, yeah. What am I supposed to think? Or what are people supposed to think about it? Don't people write to you? You don't live, you live in another bubble? Or is the bubble yours? Our bubble? I think we all have Facebook or Instagram. I have hundreds of people who say, please, that's not possible. How much longer are we supposed to hold out? Two and a half years to go, you've got a five-calice? Of course, we have democracy. If I could, I'd swoop in and throw you into the Vltava, but I just can't, can I? There's a security service here that's probably gonna save you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u385	Ambassador, in this case, I must lead you to order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u386	I don't know what I said wrong, Mr President. In the Middle Ages in Prague, it was settled that when someone was just a robber, they put him in a bag and threw him in the Vltava River.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u387	On the basis of a fair trial, not a folk trial. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u388	Mrs. Decroix, please don't yell at me, if you have something to say to me, you can come to the counter. Like your statements on TV and space, they're fantastic. We can talk about this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u389	Call me by means of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u390	Through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u391	Let me run the meeting, I'll handle it. It is always addressed through the President. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u392	Okay, well, if we go back to those highways, those fantastic highways, then. Price of CZK 2,300 per year. I would ask, Mr President, for Mrs Decroix not to yell at me here, I would like to say so myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u393	So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, even in the light of the late night times, I will ask you not to shout at each other. That's a good point. [[Thank you.]] And you, Mr. Ambassador, to speak to the point, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u394	Do you think, Mr President, that I am not speaking to the point when I say here that 800 crowns of highway stamp is getting more expensive on the network of our motorways, which is not worth it? Or what do you think? Please tell me if I haven't talked to the point so far. I'm talking about consolidating public budgets, you call it an austerity package, I call it a tax package, I'm touching things here, and one of the things that concerns the package is raising the prices of highway signs. Is there something wrong with that? Then tell me what I'm doing wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u395	I was talking about a previous statement regarding the security service, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u396	Okay, I'm sorry about security. But about the Vltava bag, that's a historical fact. That's where it is. Well, in the trash, sorry, so the trash can might be worse. Let's go to the highways. Doubtful quality and very less kilometers than in Austria, so when we compare, Austria is a plus minus country like us, we just have a freeway stamp that is going to stand as much today as in Austria. But our salaries are somewhere else, my friends, yeah, and the network and quality of our motorways aren't exactly the same as Austria's. In the Czech Republic there are approximately 1300 km of motorways, in Austria it is still a thousand more, which means that in proportion to the price of the annual motorway mark to the total number of kilometers of the motorway we are losing significantly, despite the fact that in Austria some tunnels or mountain sections are charged, again the Central Motorcycle warns. I'm not making this up, here are just quotes from people who are professionals in their fields, and so we're not talking in the wind here, I'm just quoting a guy named Igor Sirota at the Central Cartoon Club of the Czech Republic, and try to doubt that this guy is wrong. In this ratio about 1 km the driver in the Czech Republic will come to about 2.1 kroner, while in Austria to 1.1 kroner. Against such an increase in the annual stamp, the YES movement is strongly opposed. So, we fellow citizens fundamentally disagree with that. Unfortunately, we probably know what 108 is and what 109 is, right, today and what 91 is. There's nothing we can do about it, but believe me, the ANO movement doesn't agree. At the very end, which will not be completely short, is our consolidation. From our point of view, you don't say that we're not consistent, that we're just weird here, that we just don't bring solutions. Our proposals and our consolidation. The gradual consolidation of public funds is very important, but it needs to be approached, you know? Especially during the period of economic growth. The YES movement has proven that we can consolidate. The Ministry of Finance, headed by Mrs Schillerová, left with less debt to GDP than when we entered the ministry as an YES movement. Those are the facts, they're given. We can use different graphics here, bigger, smaller ones, when Mr. Nacher, small graphs, when Mr. Letocha was here, I think, he had a big graphic designer, but that's just the way it is. Even based on these experiences, we can believe that we can, we can, if we get trust in, like, two years, because probably your government won't quit sooner, put the finances back in some consistent time and some sort of order. When people ask us on Facebook what we can do, we can only promise that if we gain confidence, and that trust is expressed by voters continuously and with all humility, because 35 per cent is about 3,5 per cent, that, Mr President through the President, it probably means something. The Czech economy is stagnating, we are not achieving economic growth within OECD countries. And the five-calice repeats textbook economic errors. We're going back to the deep past. We have every age here, there are younger colleagues here, there are colleagues who are significantly older, but we all remember once the ODS government, it was in 2011, 12, in 2013 it was actually graduated from such a social disgust, aftertaste, actually disgusted by the policy that you actually created the ANO 2011 movement, because a group of people could no longer look at it and decided that they simply had to take matters public into their own hands. On this basis, Mr Babiš formed a movement that arose on the basis of those tragic governments between 2010 and 2012. Once again, the government under the leadership of the ODS. So it's kind of deja vu, yeah, it's just fantastic how you just get back after some cycle like I snap my finger like that, so I see myself in 2011, when I was a civil servant loyal to this system, I get a decision when the minister tells me that he's cutting me by 4.5 grand's salary. I had a son in high school at the time, I had a mortgage, and I couldn't make a penny as a civil servant. That was fantastic, yeah. And you guys are here again today, we're hearing about the reduction in civil servants' salaries, and these people, please, are insecure again, yeah. So we have deja vu back here. Once again, the ODS-led government has thrown tens of thousands of households into poverty, caused massive social unrest, the collapse of thousands of companies, and its ingenuity has caused the Czech Republic to be one of the longest affected countries in the zero years. That's also been said here from far more renowned colleagues than I am, when actually they from the recession, those surrounding countries got there in, like, one, two years, and we've been talking about it maybe two years longer, because we've just gotten a lot more involved. [[23.30 hours]] Our analysts are writing here, repeating Kalouskův's faulty path. So we've already had Honzíkův's way here, that was the Way to America, now we've got Kalouskův's wrong way. And I'm really worried that if this is going to happen, it's just gonna happen again. And you really don't remember, there's a whole bunch of economists, there's a whole bunch of colleagues who are over 50, 60 at that age. You don't remember what it was like, what a tragedy we were in, in quotes, I don't want to tell you what they were in on 11, 12 years ago? You really don't remember? I remember it very well. And I don't want to, I didn't go into politics to just come here and bother here to watch you run us over again, yeah, just like that. Exorcise? Okay. Don't shout at me, please, colleagues. I honor it, I don't shout at anybody here either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u397	I didn't see anyone shouting at you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u398	You can't hear well. I think I hear better than you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u399	I'm afraid that's not the case. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u400	I'm lucky for you, because every time I talk, I usually have you behind my back, and you give me that. The state, under the leadership of the current government, has disposed of the effective measures necessary for effective tax collection, and the remaining ones do not develop. As a result, he is losing control of the revenue side of the state budget. You're losing control of the revenue side of the state budget. You are failing to draw European money, it has been mentioned x-times here, and you are not making any pro-growth investments. Contrary to your declarations, you are increasing the operating costs of the state, setting up new ministries and strengthening the expensive apparatus of civil servants. X-times have been mentioned here, I won't say it again. Three remaining ministries, piles of political representatives, etc., etc. Just friends of friends need to be placed. Follow up on a gradual budget consolidation plan rebuilt by the Government in 2021, which envisages reducing structural deficits by half a year. The main pillars include reducing the amount of money to civil servants' salaries through the merger of agendas as a result of the sensible digitization of government administration, those are our solutions, merging and shutting down agendas and reducing the operating expenditure of chapters by 5-10 percent per year. We also propose, and it was within the framework of our consolidation after the covid, that there really must be an abolition of unnecessary ministries. The emphasis should also be placed on the effective drawing of funds from the 2021-2027 programming period. Here's a figure of 962 billion. Instead of raising taxes, we must build on a successful fight against tax evasion. When I heard the EET today, it really went straight. I also have a lot of friends in the environment who actually do business, and they said, we can finally pay people nicely, but also those employees who were previously on some gray work, so they just got a decent salary, etc. when we were talking about this EET. I hope that at the end of this season we won't have a full camp of foreign tourists who are going to be somewhere stiff, but they're going to have a credit card in their hand, yeah, from abroad, because if you come to the dam, anywhere, you're not really going to buy practically anything. Cash only, but that's what we've been talking about. You won't admit it, you'll never admit it, because you had it as such a masterpiece, you just had an EET as such a sword pushed out, or a shield that you are just, which you immediately canceled as one of the first things. Here you take who you can, increase highway signs, reduce the valorization of the elderly, just try to squeeze out the people you can, and you take one source of income. That's how you snapped and agreed to it. So I don't see a successful fight against tax evasion at all, and I don't see it in that package. I don't see it anywhere. Maybe the Treasury Secretary will show us where it is sometime, but I don't see it there. The proven philosophy of our movement is to collect more taxes without having to raise rates. The fight against tax evasion helps to ensure fair taxation for all citizens and companies. It strengthens public confidence in the tax system. We want to continue, if possible, if possible, in implementing the action plan to control transfer prices of multinational corporations and in active data policy with control reports, that means that EET probably, if we succeed in two years' time, I will certainly try not to speak for Mrs Schillerová, of course, but we would lead him back. Predictable increases in certain excise duties, in particular tobacco products and hard alcohol. Here's how I said we agreed to something, gambling taxes, make it a pack of cigarettes of 300 kroner, make it a bottle of rum of 1,000 kroner. I don't have the slightest problem with that. Maybe somebody's in danger right now, but I just don't have a problem with it at all as abstinence and non-smoking. The YES movement on raising vice taxes has been talking for a long time. And it's interesting here that why the Minister of Finance didn't somehow work into the budget of 2023. Just some increase in these taxes. Here I have written by our analysts, Minister Stanjura has a very distinctive working pace, yeah, so such a decent statement, I don't know what. I have a note here, why didn't he make it, why didn't you give it, if you need to collect taxes, why do you have to heal on those students? Why do you have to heal on the seniors? Why do you have to pick up the road sign? Why didn't you just get into the budget of 2023 here by raising the taxes here from the gambling, the alcohol, the cigarettes and other things? I don't understand. A thorough revision of tax exemptions, which, in addition to positive fiscal impacts, will bring about a reduction in the administrative complexity of the tax system. You have to agree to that, for God's sake. The implementation of the countercyclical economic policy for growth investment in full use of the national recovery plan, the proactive motivation of self-government to invest available funds in accounts combined with low taxes and the improvement of living standards will achieve stable GDP growth and dynamically increasing public budget revenues. The YES movement would continue to modernise the tax system and increase efficiency. the online financial office, in particular the development of understandable user environments for all taxes and situations. As part of the management of the State's assets of the ANO movement, it would always proceed and proceed if it were in power, as a proper economic operator, who protects the strategic interests of the State. State-owned enterprises would be rid of political marketers, five-wheelers, political candidates of the current coalition, and we would restore transparent nomination processes and result-based remuneration policies. We will not allow the privatisation of state strategic companies. We commit ourselves to gradually reducing the number of employees of the public sector, but as a result of the digitization and merger of agendas, that is, it would be gradual. This measure can also help the labour market, because we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in all countries of the European Union. But we can't, please, say here, go back to the state employees or the state employees, that we'll just cut their salaries, etc. This brings about a huge, just huge tension for those people who work for the state. You may not realize this, but if this person decides that he needs to work in that police force and you suddenly tell him you're gonna make him uncomfortable, the man just decided he's gonna work for the state, he's got nothing else, yeah, he's just there unilaterally, trained, and now, for example, in the context of Mr Rakušan's announcement through the President that he's gonna cut down those civil servants who are 9.5,000, so, of course, if you'd heard and talked to those people, they're gonna thank you all. And if some people voted for you, I guarantee you they'll never vote for you again. Consolidation of public budgets through tax increases can have a negative impact on economic growth for several reasons. Here I would point out, I would go back to that tax package of yours to make you realize that if you raise your hand for what you most likely raise your hand for, you will reduce consumption and investment. The increase in taxes will reduce the disposable incomes of households and businesses. Higher taxes may lead to a decrease in consumption, which will affect the sector dependent on domestic consumption. You will reduce investment by companies because higher tax burden reduces the profitability of investments. In the period of the highest decline in real wages from all OECD countries, it is very irresponsible to reduce real disposable household incomes and by increasing taxes. Another thing that's gonna happen is a reduction in competitiveness. Higher taxes will reduce the competitiveness of companies on both the domestic and international markets. Undertakings may face higher production costs which reduce their ability to offer competitive prices. This can lead to a decline in exports and foreign investment in the country. Yeah, so if there's a decrease in competitiveness, no one's just gonna come in here, there's just gonna be an unreadable environment. Why would any foreign capital come here to a country that wouldn't be helpful to it? Negative influence on the business environment. High taxes can discourage business and the creation of new companies. It's probably in the interest of all of us to have as many established companies here as possible. Entrepreneurs feel that they can feel that they are not being paid to do business because of high costs and reduced profits. In this way, consolidation by means of tax growth can reduce job creation and innovation, so, in turn, you are completely against what you are declaring. The creation of new jobs will be reduced and innovations will be lower. The effect on the job offer. Higher taxes can reduce people's motivation to work. This can increase informal employment and reduce labour productivity, which will once again be negative and will affect overall economic growth in our country. [[23.40 hours]] There are about seven or eight other points, such as reducing investment in human capital, suppressing innovation, growing the grey economy - I would stop there. Higher taxes can lead to an increase in tax evasion. People and companies can try to find ways to reduce their tax liabilities, which leads to a reduction in the state's tax revenue. You really want the state to have lower incomes to move people into the gray zone - see this cash only. Like me, I don't see it at all as a single ratio. We are, we're looking for every crown, and we're just creating completely deliberate conditions for the gray economy here. A marked effect on competitiveness. High taxes can make the country's competitiveness worse on an international scale. If other countries have lower tax rates, it can attract businesses to relocate their operations (?) in these regions, which reduces investment and jobs in the home state. That's a sentence - I just don't understand it, isn't it? The competition will go to hell. Limiting economic mobility. Higher taxes can affect the behaviour of households and businesses. Households can spend less, which is exactly what's happening right now. 'Cause you guys made those households unsure again, domestic demand is actually dropping, right, people are just afraid to spend because they don't know what's going to happen. So the economy just doesn't spin, you've got lower picks, and it's back on track. We're in 2010 to 2013. That's exactly what we experienced 10 years ago. Firms can face greater difficulties in competition with larger companies, which can lead to a decline in their business or a reduction in the number of employees. So, in fact, you're practically gonna start a higher unemployment rate here with your austerity package. Not that we don't need a little more unemployment because we actually have a paradoxically low unemployment rate, right, but we just can't overdo it again, can we? Inefficient resource allocation. High taxes can lead to distortions of resource allocation efficiency in the economy. I'm getting close to the end. I know you guys are happy, but. I can read it again if you want. I don't have a problem...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u401	Please don't shout. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u402	Yeah, that was for the auditorium. Thank you. I can send a signal, I thought I'd put it in Morse code, because I've been sending signals to the Prime Minister once in Morse code, but I think we'd be here for about 14 days. And the Rules of Procedure - Members were here to sing, didn't they, as well. If you want, I'll read it to you again, because there are some passages that are really worth hearing, like, one more time, because then maybe you'll think about raising your hand for something that in the finals will just be a disaster for our country. So, if anyone's interested, really. Or like this, Mr Kučera, through Mr President, who actually showed interest in our materials yesterday, I will really, really, really, really, really bring them to him, through my assistant. I didn't process this, it was processed by our analyst, because, as I say, I'm not an expert on the economy to the point where I'm just hoping to process this kind of material. And I will be very happy to give Mr. Kučer of the TOP 09 so that he can educate himself at bedtime tonight. Thus, given these factors, consolidation of public budgets through tax increases can have the potential to slow economic growth. Do we really want to slow economic growth here in our country? I'm asking the economists, representatives of the five-calice - do you want to slow down the economic growth of the Czech Republic? Not me, I would like the Czech Republic to grow. When I go through our Czech country like this, when I still have gas, I think it's a nice country. And we're doing everything we can here to just make things worse for ourselves here. Tax policy should be thought-out and balanced. Designed and balanced in order not to restrict business, restrict consumption, investment and innovation. That's a nice sentence I'll repeat for my colleagues on the right side of the spectrum. Tax policy should be thought-out and balanced so as not to restrict business, I think we all want businessmen here to succeed, to limit consumption, because we need consumption, investment and innovation. Yeah, we want to be a knowledge society, an innovative company. I remember again that yeah, exactly, you're right, co-worker, that's what you had in the election program - that we're gonna upgrade and we're just gonna go ahead. Well, then, let's go with the package. In other words, higher taxes are not always the best solution for reducing budget deficits. Reduction... some types of business or investment can encourage - and I have a comment here - and certainly will encourage growth and competitiveness. [[unintelligible]] A creative and prudent solution to fiscal policy can ensure that consolidation is implemented in a way that minimises negative impacts and economic growth. And my final statement here about the package - you probably assume that I will certainly not vote for it and I would never raise my hand for it, because I would actually consider it a betrayal of all my values that I hold, and I just don't see anything innovative, anything pro-growth, anything so healthy in that package. From my point of view, I know that 108 or 109 with one of our defectors is more than 91, but I consider it important that this information be heard for citizens here, and for these reasons I cannot raise my hand for this consolidation package, which we call a tax package, and I will never support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u403	I have here one point of fact, with which Mr Michal Kohajda is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u404	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond and please colleague Hubert Lang, through you, Mr President. I found his report really inspiring, and I listened to him all the time. I don't want to express myself here because there's no time. The highways, for example, because I consider Dan Ťok to be the best minister of transport of history even though he was surprised by the snow in December at D1. But quite seriously, what I must look back on is the fact that a colleague here, by your means, Mr President, has indicated that the government and the Minister of Education are calling university students a perpetrator. I was looking for it, it's not true. I didn't find such an expression anywhere, it's not true. I've been working with students for over 15 years, with college students. I consider this work to be very interesting, very refreshing and much more meaningful than many other works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u405	Thank you. President Alena Schillerová, with a factual point. Please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u406	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So I, my colleague, Mr Kohajda, with your help, Mr Vice-President. It was exactly like that. I really put my mind to it, because I was commenting afterwards. The Minister of Finance literally said: "If a student earns CZK 206,000 a year, which is equivalent to CZK 17,000 a month, then due to the application of various discounts, deductible items pay no tax. If he earns more, he either doesn't study enough or exploits the system." And I'll deliver. I'll deliver exactly the cut part of Mr. Finance Minister's statement. That's exactly how it was.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u407	Thank you. There is no other factual point. I will therefore ask Mrs Marie Pošarová to speak and Mr Milan Feranec will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u408	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all been anxiously expecting that long announced big D-day, when our government will present us with that long promised consolidation package, which will tame the budget deficit, save the state budget itself and save our public finances. The government called it a consolidation package. Personally, I think it's more of a sick package that will still hurt people's heads. [[23.50 hours]] And what happened in the end? What are we witnessing? The government has come up with several hundred larger or smaller measures on the part of public revenue, which are supposedly aimed at reducing the public deficit. This deficit should be reportedly reduced by CZK 94 billion next year and another CZK 53 billion in the years to come. State spending should fall by 78 billion in the next two years. The condition is quite appropriate, since the savings on the expenditure side are only in the level of promises so far, they are not linked to any standard and specific proposals to limit this year's budget expenditure, or to specific grant titles or budget chapters. It's the famous pigeon on the roof. These are only promises which, as we know, cannot be saddened. But voters and citizens will certainly be saddened by the massive tax increase, so to speak, on all fronts, especially the low-income ones. They are certainly thrilled to be able to pay for the party of the thriving Fialův government even more significantly than they have so far. Nor is it true that government officials, as they have claimed and claimed, represent a package where they save two thirds on the side of budget spending and receive one third on the part of public revenue, i.e. taxes and insurance contributions. For 2025, no matter how much I count, it's coming out of official government materials, almost exactly so-called 50-50. In doing so, the government has absent any detailed analyses or impact studies of planned government measures on citizens and the entire economy and its development. And those analyses by independent economic experts are very unhappy because they tell us, among other things, that four-member families with average income in both parents will lose up to CZK 50,000 a year as a result of Fialův and Stanjurův's package, without netting the effects of VAT changes on these families. The fact that this consolidation package has not been discussed at all with social partners, trade unions and employers within the tripartite framework is then a friction on an uneating government cake. The ex post mutual meeting this week cannot be regarded as a serious negotiation. Your massive and flat-rate tax increase will be affected by legal persons, employees who will newly reduce net wages by the compulsory payment of sickness insurance, will increase property taxes to all. No one will be spared. With the compulsory introduction of sickness insurance the most touches again the low-income employees, on whom you have literally sat next to the pensioners and are bullying them at every step, that is to say, including those employees who are now not subject to any tax liability when they benefit from tax discounts and tax advantages on dependent children, and thus the result will inevitably be a reduction in their net disposable income. We understand, of course, that public finances are under a great deal of pressure over the long term and cannot be done without significant consolidation. But why are only Czech citizens, employees, businessmen and pensioners affected? What have they done to you, except that some of them have chosen you, for what is now, and you punish us all with them? Why don't you cut this year's budget at all, for example, in the field of foreign donations? Why don't you finally tax the dividends of foreign companies that they're taking out of our country? Why do we have to pay political nonprofits at home and around the world? Why doesn't the government abolish the newly created offices of three non-portfee ministers and the already unnecessarily based news outlets on digital and information agencies? Why doesn't the number of political deputy ministers decrease? The savings that this government proposes to make are therefore insufficient or rather zero. Just fictitious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-13-ps2021-071-03-001-002.u409	Thank you, Madame. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the following procedure. Because I spoke to Mr Feranc, and he said he had a speech longer than five minutes, and that he would like to give it all tomorrow. That is, if there is no conflict with my procedure, I would interrupt the meeting at this point, even though it is not yet full of midnight so that the Member can give a speech in one piece tomorrow and not interrupt it. If there is no conflict with this process of mine which I propose, then I thank you for your helpfulness and interrupt the 71st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which we will continue tomorrow, i.e. Friday, July 14th, 9:00 a.m. I thank you and wish you a peaceful rest of today.
