ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u1	132. Government bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws /house print 330/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by Vice-President of the Government for Digitalization and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again meeting here about the bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., the Building Act, and some other related laws, which the Chamber of Deputies has already discussed at first reading, at its 48th meeting 14. 12., and the House has designated the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee, and this law has also been ordered to the Economic Committee for discussion. [[15.40 hours]] The Economic Committee discussed this bill 19. 1. and, following the general debate, suspended its discussion in order to submit amendments by 23. 2. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed this bill also 19. 1. and, after a general debate, interrupted it in order to make amendments by 20. 2. that period has subsequently been extended. The amendments tabled were discussed by the Economic Committee on 1 March and the Public Administration Committee on the following day, i.e. on 2 March. A total of 14 amendments were applied to the committees during the discussion of this legislation, with a total of 5 of them adopted. One of these amendments, which has been applied and subsequently adopted to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, is the proposal that the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared, in particular in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, other ministries, as well as fellow Members from both the coalition and the opposition, which has already been pointed out here by a fellow Member, Mr Havránek. I am extremely grateful, and I am really glad that we are presenting this, say, comprehensive proposal together, really across the political spectrum, as signed under this series by representatives of all parties who have their representation in the House. The aim of this amendment - and we have heard a very strong appeal - was and is, in particular, the further acceleration of the construction process, which is therefore a crucial part of this comprehensive proposal. This is mainly aimed at changing the construction administration on the higher floors of the construction proceedings. Then it is also a kind of hearing of an appeal for the maximum degree of integration. Although the original proposal contained some not a recommendation, but a text on the need for coordination, if possible, at individual levels, but we were really trying to find solutions with the representatives of the expert public so that the integration would be, say, more intense in all those levels. In short, I would just mention the main things. In view of the change in the construction administration system, the amendment proposed a partial modification of the structure of the construction administration, which does not affect the number of construction offices which exercise their competence as delegated. I want it to be said here, because this part is still not fully clarified in the context of the individual comments on this proposal. The specialized construction and appeal office, in the short term SOSÚ, will replace the Transport and Energy Building Office, the so-called DESÚ, in the short term, which will decide on reserved constructions which are exclusively constructions of transport and energy. The office will be organized under the Ministry of Transport. DESÚ will also be an appeal administrative body for regional construction offices in relation to energy and transport structures. The Ministry of Transport will be the Board of Appeal for the DESU for Transport Infrastructure Constructions. The Ministry of Industry and Trade will be the Board of Appeal for DESU for Energy Infrastructure Construction. The Ministry of Regional Development will then be a general supervisor of the region unless it is the supervisor of the DESU under the law. At the same time, it will conduct all construction offices from the point of view of the construction law. This amendment further extends procedural integration. This is the second area that I have referred to, since it introduces that the coordinated binding position, which will include JES, the single environmental position that we are discussing here in the merged debate, will be issued to municipalities with an enlarged municipal authority and, in some cases, at the regional authority. In the event that the construction plan does not require an assessment of the EIA, a coordinated binding opinion will be issued at the Regional Authority, which will therefore include a single environmental opinion, in such a case where the fiction of a positive binding opinion can be applied without conditions. In the event that the construction plan requires an assessment of the EIA, the issue of that coordinated binding opinion, including the JES, will depend on whether the builder will already have a binding opinion of the EIA, which is issued prior to the application for authorisation of the intention. This is very important. If a binding opinion of the EIA has been issued, the Regional Authority shall again issue a coordinated binding opinion, including the JES, and the fiction of a positive binding opinion may also be applied without conditions. However, if the binding position of the EIA has not been issued, this means that at the beginning of the construction process, the builder will have to apply for the EIA, then the coordinated binding opinions of the JES will be separate documents, with any fiction being linked only to the part that does not contain the EIA. This is logical, because the duration of the EIA does not fit within the limits that we have established, where the rule of fiction applies. It is therefore important that, at all moments - and thus we fulfil the joint commitment that we have made with the opposition representatives, but as we have also dealt with representatives such as Health Platforms - in the construction law, there is really integration here, and there is a unified position, i.e. in the final one stamp on the whole process wherever possible. This summary amendment also contains some equally important sub-regulations. For example, it can be mentioned, for example, in relation to the construction of renewable energy sources, when the amendment introduces the same adaptations to the new construction law, which were added by the so-called Lex OZE 1 Act to the current construction law. It is necessary for this amendment to be applied continuously to the new construction law. Furthermore, the comprehensive amendment contains some partial changes in relation to territorial planning. The first major change is that the regional development plan, which is the regional planning documentation at state level, will be approved by the government. The change is also made in relation to the built-up territory. Another change is also proposed from the point of view of changes in land planning documentation. The adaptation aims to make it even more clear that the changes are made in parallel to the current accelerated changes made. There was still uncertainty about it, which is why we went the way of refinement. It also aims to ensure that both the authorising authority and the purchaser are not overwhelmed by applications for which acquisition is not required immediately and is sufficient to evaluate them only in administration on application, i.e. every four years. This will also ensure that natural persons and investor changes can be easily applied for changes, and that the current parallel to the accelerated procedures, i.e. without negotiation of the award and with the merged joint negotiations and public consultation, can be taken into account. As a separate amendment, the amendment of the group of Members of Olšáková, Voborská, Havránek, which is heading into the regulation of the removal of so-called black buildings and which aims to partially eliminate the excessive hardness of the new construction law, was also adopted, on the other hand, to set up conditions for additional permit of the construction, which will still constitute a significant burden on the additional permit of the construction, so that there would not actually be any option for the construction to be allowed, regardless of the protection of other interests. Three amendments tabled by Mr Adamec were adopted within the Economic Committee. The first of these aims to adapt the definition of technical infrastructure by asking for sure whether power plants, if they meet the condition of a public need, are considered as part of a public technical infrastructure. The next amendment brings into line the construction law with the Energy Management Act, which explicitly complements the reference to the Energy Management Act in the case of the obligation to demonstrate the energy performance of the building. Finally, the third amendment is the regulation on the building of optical fixed public communications networks. The Ministry of Regional Development is still open to any improvement in our original proposal, but it will not jeopardise the protection of public interests and will find optimal support for the coalition and opposition. That is why I have also become a co-submitor of the complementary comprehensive amendment prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development in the follow-up cooperation on the first amendment. [[15.50 hours]] Here I will repeatedly allow myself once again to say thank you to all those who have contributed to this, both from the coalition and from the opposition. The proposal includes modifications to the process of collaborating energy buildings, the definition of technical infrastructure, the conferral of authorisation of specific energy infrastructure buildings to regional construction authorities, as these are buildings with regional impact, which are essential for the stability of distribution networks, and decisions on these structures must be entrusted to such administrative level, which will be able to decide on these constructions quickly and, above all, professionally. The next amendment then introduces the definition of supervision of the designer in the new construction law. The proposal also provides for the definition of the supervisory activity of the designer and the incorporation of the performance of this activity among the selected activities under construction, which is defined by the fact that only an authorised person responsible for the professional level can carry out this activity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interest in the final form of the new Construction Act, for the perfect cooperation on the amendments which, in my opinion, are the result of a unique political consensus, and also for, I dare say that the smooth course of the discussion of the substantive amendment to the Construction Act in both committees, and I believe that this will also be the case at second reading. I want to thank you for your attention, and I'm ready to answer any questions you may have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u3	Thank you, Minister. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 330/1 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Robert králíček, should take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and, if necessary, justify the amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u4	Madam Vice-President, Ministers, fellow Members, I would follow up on Mr Bureš, through Madam President, because I have not yet been satisfied with a long speech. However, I don't think it's possible for Mr. Bartoš because he had the speech so extensive and long that I couldn't outrun it. However, allow me, at least for a short time, to summarize what has happened so far. The government presented this law, the House press 330, to the amendment to the Construction Act, 1. 11. 2022. On 3. 11. 2022 The Organising Committee has proposed a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. The first reading of this amendment took place on 14 December 2022 at the 48th meeting. The draft law was ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The time limit for committee discussions was 80 days. The Economic Committee discussed the bill and issued on 19 January 2023 a resolution delivered to Members as House press 330/1. Subsequently, the hearing was suspended. The Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development discussed the bill and issued on 19 January 2023 a resolution delivered to Members as House Press 330/2 and also suspended its negotiations until 20. 2. 2023, when the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development issued a resolution delivered to Members as House Press 330/3, which was a procedural resolution, and subsequently on 3 March 2023, its resolution delivered to Members as House Press 330/5 approved amendments. The Economic Committee did the same at its meeting 1. 3. and the resolution delivered to Members as House Press 330/4 with their amendments, which will subsequently be tabled by the rapporteur of the Economic Committee. Now allow me to continue to justify or inform the House Press resolution 330/5, which is the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development No 65 of 2 March 2023 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws. Now, then, the resolution. I will allow myself - I will not read it whole because the resolution has 25 pages, and I do not want to quote the parts of the bill that have happened in the overall amendment because we would have been here for a really long time, and they are mentioned in part by Minister Bartoš. However, I would like to sum up for the listening Members what these amendments were about, so that, if necessary, even those who will record their amendments outside the committees know and are in line with them. Then allow me to continue: "65. Resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 17th meeting of 2 March on the Government Bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act, as amended by Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws, House print 330. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 17th meeting following the explanation of the draft by Dr Ivan Bartoš, Minister for Regional Development, following the report by Mr Robert Králíček and following the debate adopted a resolution by which: I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve, as amended by the proposals adopted.' As has already been mentioned, the proposals adopted were two, when the complex includes points A to P, which means: point A are forest nursery, point B of renewable energy sources, point C concerns firefighters, point D of geotechnical survey, point E of small buildings, point F of the file service, point G: integration and binding opinions, point H: territorial development, point I: architects, landscape architecture, point J: transition from the Specialised and Appellation Building Office to the Transport and Energy Building Office, that is long, sorry, point K: built-up territory, point L: accelerated process of acquisition of change, point M: connections and standing, point N: gas plants, point O: numbers registration, point P: other changes. [[A Member of the Rabbit is in the resolution.]] Subsequently, an amendment was adopted by Members of Mrs Olšáková, Mrs Voborská and Mrs Havránek, who dealt with black buildings. "II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies." It's been a long time, but I hope it's educational. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. So we talked about the House of Press 330/5, right? [[Member Rabbit agrees.]] Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Stanislav Blaha, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Mr Blaha is duly excused. Is there anyone here who would read the resolution instead? Yes, let me see. [[The President is looking in his background.]] [[16.00 hours]] For the duly excused Mr Blaha, the resolution will be delivered by Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u6	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Minister, or ministers, colleagues, colleagues. Sorry for the short delay. I had no idea that my colleague Blaha was not present today, so I will represent him and present to you the resolution of the Economic Committee of the 24th meeting of 1 March 2023 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 283/2021 Coll., Construction Act No. 195/2022 Coll., and some other related laws, House print no. 330: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the opening words of the Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš, reports by Mr Stanislav Blaha and after a general and detailed debate: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House press number 330, as amended by the approved amendments: 1. The following point X is inserted after point 4: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the words, including power generators and energy sources, energy storage devices, charging stations and gas storage tanks shall be inserted after the word " energy", the following points shall be numbered; 2. The following point shall be inserted after point 212: Article 4 (1) (a) (h) the words, unless otherwise provided in other legislation, shall be inserted after the word "the decision of the court, the following points shall be numbered; 3. 28 the following point 1 is inserted: "First - in Section 2 (b) the current text is referred to as paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 which reads: Secondly, the management of an optical fixed public communications network may be placed above the ground in the built-up territory if (a) the municipality in whose territory the management is to be located will issue a consent form, (b) there is no underground management of an optical fixed public communications network in the proposed route of the project, and (c) the intention uses or complements the already existing above-ground management of a technical infrastructure in the territory of the municipality which has issued a consent form in accordance with point (a). (a), the following points shall be numbered; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the plaintiff and legislative branch of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to submit draft legislation on technical regulations which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur, whom I represent at the moment, to present at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a report on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee;' IV. Instructs me to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the entire resolution of the Economic Committee from its 24th meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-004-132.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. We would now open a merged general debate on points 130, 131 and 132.
