ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u1	98. Government bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended /German press 263/ - Third reading We will now continue to discuss the interrupted paragraph 98, which is the House press 263, the amendment to the Czech Television Act. I'm opening it with this. I welcome the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, who is already at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I have an application with the priority right of President Tomio Okamura. You may continue your speech, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u2	Then I'll continue my interrupted performance. The SPD movement in this situation promotes the abolition of licence fees and we consider it a better model for Czech Television and Czech Radio to be financed directly from the chapter of the state budget under the control of the Supreme Audit Office, as is the case with other institutions that manage citizens' money. The Fialův Government is attempting to complete the political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by changing the law. Members of the SPD will defend the adoption of this law by all legal means, because we are promoting freedom and democracy. We reject the totalitarian manners of the Fialův Five-calice. When we sum up the above, what the government coalitions of SPOLU present here, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Pirates and STAN, is a fundamental change in the way in which the supervisory councils of these public media are elected, when the parties of the government coalition want to enact a decision to elect a third of the Senate members in the future, while now they are all elected only by the House. This is unacceptable to the SPD, as this will involve a purposeful politicisation of these control councils, because the Senate has no legitimacy or trust of citizens compared to the House. Individual senators are elected about 10 percent of voters in their constituency and thus represent a total minority of the public. The only body most representative of the distribution of political forces by the public is the House, where the electoral participation of citizens in elections is around 60 percent, i.e. the majority. It does not matter whether the SPD is represented there or onde, we are concerned that the law on public media should be observed, which clearly states that it is necessary for representatives on media councils to be represented within this framework, members of the council, important regional, political, social and cultural views. So, on the contrary, it is the House that represents them thanks to its high electoral participation, and the Senate does not. For this reason, we think that only the House should vote for members of the Czech Television and Czech Radio Councils, as it has been so far, as it is intended to represent all citizens in the control of public media. As I have already said, the Fialův Government is trying to complete the political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by this bill, as the government's trust of citizens, which is only about 30 percent, is steeply declining, and therefore the government is trying to maintain undemocratic means in power. Of course, I could add to that the way government coalitions here are trying to push through the correspondence option that allows manipulation. That's what we see abroad. Instead of starting to work for the citizens and doing something positive for them, the government coalition is trying to control the public media in order to proclaim government views, if possible, or to try to push for a change in the electoral system. These are, of course, ways that we cannot agree with. What would help the freedom and popularity of the media and the dissemination of opinions, as our constitution and human rights presume, is not a monopoly on public media, but the opposite. On the contrary, in our country, we should strengthen the right to freedom of speech and opinion without the purposeful demise of people by some media. In fact, if these rules are respected in some of the Czech Television and Radio programmes, I am satisfied, and it doesn't really matter who is in the Czech Television Council. Unfortunately, lying to people who have other opinions is a standard for some mainstream media that pursues a hard ideology that still does not have a stable name, but its expression is the real fascination of society, the spread of hatred against the thought opposition and the fight against freedom of speech in the name of Brussels ideas, however crazy and perverse they are, with the fact that we consider the words insane and perverseness to be very measured for plans to eliminate the European economy or European civilization values in the name of Green Deal, in the name of fifty genders or to support colonization of Europe by illegal migration somewhere from Africa and Islamic countries. So I have made it clear here in my speech that the SPD is opposed to this bill. We agree, and we are not at all opposed to political competition, simply equal and fair political competition of ideas and the agenda of individual political parties, but we are certainly defending the government coalition's efforts to maintain power at all costs by undemocratic methods, and we simply do not see that as right. [[15.10 hours]] Also, as I said in my speech, I don't put all the media in the same bag, that needs to be emphasized. I must say that, even on the basis of the experience of the last few months, even from this parliamentary term, I must say that most journalists are trying to treat us fairly. I must say that most journalists are trying to make a balanced report, so it is more about the specific ones I would say maybe the editors, the specific, specific programmes that, from our point of view, are active in the public media. But I have to say, we definitely don't want to, and we're not gonna throw all the journalists and the media in the same sack. I think the situation has improved a lot from our point of view lately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u3	Thank you. I'm gonna load up an apology. Mr Josef Bělica apologizes, starting at 15 o'clock for work reasons. And since I don't have any other prior rights, I'll ask Mr. Ondřej Babka, who is... Are you reporting with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Fiala? For Mr Babek, who is not present in the hall, so that he eventually fails to apply, and I therefore ask the President of the Fiala, who has the right of priority to speak now? [[Yes.]] If that's the case, we'll wait a while. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u4	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, only Minister Baxa is here, so I can't tell the honourable government when he's not here, can I? The government of Petr Fiala has once again placed one of the two key priorities on the House's agenda, namely the proposal for a total re-creating of the rules for elections to public media control councils. The second priority is the correspondence choice of the House and the President of the Republic, so far for citizens who remain abroad at the time of these elections. Unfortunately, that has not yet happened - unfortunately, because we think it is an unconstitutional amendment. Indeed, these are vital priorities for the government, the government parties, and the government coalition, without exaggerating the priority. Markantly, their public confidence declines. At least two, but rather three government parties would not have gotten to the House at all in the future elections, and the prognosis of development is not good for them at all, on the contrary. So what they have left to do if they want to quickly dominate - do-over - public media, whose public confidence is falling sharply, by the way, not to mention serious problems in the newsroom and publicity, where senior editors file complaints against each other and do not spare serious accusations and where there are no more senior editors who have not yet been accused of bossing or sexual harassment. The fact that five coalitions control the news and publicity of public media is its last weapon in political struggle and the last theoretical hope that they will not experience a well-deserved beating in the next House elections. That is why they try to insure and extend this advantage for years to come, even at the cost of changing the rules of the game in its course and finding itself several times for their short but extremely damaging history for our country at the edge of the constitution. The Government's proposal to amend the Czech Television and Czech Radio laws is a completely unsystemic, illogical, politically purposeful step, plus, among other things, at a time when the state's debt is growing in record, and when the current CEO of Czech Television, Petr Dvořák, announced layoffs and financial cuts some time ago, also a step pointlessly and inexplicably costly, as well as a proposal and a step highly irresponsible. There is no need to walk tiringly around the bush and take seriously the government's phrase that it is an effort to strengthen the independence of the public media and their supervisory authorities. For example, the increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council from the current 15 to the government proposed by 18 is nothing more than an unhidden attempt by the government coalition to ensure a comfortable majority in the control body of public television, which will soon decide who will be the new CEO of this so-called public service media. Consider that we are - that the government coalition here is proud of some consolidation package, which is supposed to make a lot of cuts, and we have been saying that to journalists, specifically on Czech television, we say that the government should start with it. And the government doesn't start with it, the government has three more ministers than all governments had before. The government has agreed to an endless number of deputy ministers. The government has agreed to a new agency for digitization. Now the government agrees with other people on the Council of Television and Radio precisely so that it can control it immediately. She doesn't even want to wait until someone's term is over to take advantage of her own, but she wants to take over immediately, and she doesn't mind us paying three more or six councillors or councillors, I don't know exactly how many councilmen there are in this Council of the Czech Republic... or in this Council for Public Media. For example, the increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council from the current 15 to the government proposed by 18, so by three, is nothing more than an unhidden effort by the government coalition to ensure a comfortable majority in the control body of public television, which will soon also decide who will be the new CEO of this so-called public service media. In this context, let us remember that, originally last spring, the government and its Minister of Culture, Mr Baxa, planned to dissolve the current Czech Television Council with an amendment to the law, to adopt new rules for the election of the councillors, and then, according to them, the Members and the Senators will elect a complete new Council of Czech Television according to the political ideas of this ruling five-wheeler. It would be nothing more than a counter-constitutional coup than a coup. After great pressure and negative opinions, including the disapproval of many government lawyers and legislators, this outrageous plan has come to an end. And we now have a slightly different alternative to this amendment for the final discussion, whose aim is the same: mastery of public media councils, especially the Czech Television Council, by politically or personally loyal people, i.e. the political control of Czech Radio and Czech Television. It is therefore the objective of which the House's enforcement of the last parliamentary term has been falsely accused of its political opponents, and it is now being carried out in practice on its own. It's a classic example of hypocrisy and the double standard of this government and the sides of this government five-wheeler. I would like to quote the statement of a member of the electoral committee of the Chamber of Deputies, who has a media issue in his opinion, a member of Jan Lacina of the STAN movement for the Media server of 21 June last year. I quote: "Senators will choose their three representatives on the television board as soon as the amendment comes into force. Then, at the nearest end of the present councillors, they will choose the second Trinity, and that will be 12: 6. And every two years, the senators choose their two representatives and the House 4." End of quote. The timeline and the sequence and connection with the upcoming election of the new CEO of Czech Television are also important here, with five-calice government senators choosing their three television councillors before this choice. This is also the main reason why, instead of increasing the number of TV councillors, the government will not suggest, for example, that a part of the Councillors' Senate to which this amendment would pass as a butter knife would choose only after the mandate of the first three existing television councillors has properly ended. This would at least have some logic, although this would be unacceptable for us as an SPD, but it would not have fulfilled the important intention of this government to achieve a sufficient majority in the Czech Television Council to ensure the choice of the new CEO, which is also intended to be insured by the fact that the simple majority of the members of the television control board will be sufficient to elect the CEO of the Czech Television next time the amendment takes effect, while the majority of the qualified, i.e. two-thirds, is needed to do so. [[15.20 hours]] So the nice advice becomes a little bread advice, which means, you come in, you have one or two sandwiches, you drink it with coffee, you chat and you go home again. While the existing law envisages that the CEO of Czech Television must be elected 10 votes out of 15, this is precisely the two-thirds majority, his amended version works with the fact that the simple majority of votes will be sufficient to elect the CEO next time, i.e. again 10, but already out of a total of 18. The same should be the case in the case of Czech Radio, where the total number of votes needed to be elected and the appeal of its Director-General should be reduced. The original proposal envisaged increasing the special concession from the current 6 votes to 7. According to the new draft, the majority of all the radio councillors, i.e. five votes, are expected to do so at once. Who would get tired of convincing someone, collecting votes, convincing the councilmen that they should vote? Why should they vote two-thirds if it's enough to convince half? It's quite obvious. The government coalition is not about the independence of Czech Television or Czech Radio, about their transparency and financial stability, as often government officials talk about it completely falsely, but only about themselves, about their own political benefits, and about controlling public media for many more years, and about being only government or government-paid and binding TV councillors who will decide who will be the leader of our politically and socially most influential media for the next six years. Thus, the government wants to take over the top management of public television for more than one parliamentary term, thereby insureing itself of a privileged position in the news and publicity of public media, and thus doing exactly what it has wrongly accused others of for years. We just saw it in the presidential election. Even this council, which is sitting there now, said that some candidates were clearly disadvantaged in the presidential election and were disadvantaged by, for example, the present editor. There's a record for that. After the amendment of this law, let us no longer count on the council to try to treat one of the five-wheelers critically or to do their job properly and well. I think that's exactly why all this is happening, it's precisely why the elections are much easier for five-calices in the future. The original proposal of the amendment, which I mentioned earlier, envisaged the maintenance of 15 members of the Czech Television Supervisory Board, from which Members would vote 10 members and Senators 5. The current proposal will therefore, among other things, burden the Czech Television budget more significantly by having to pay three other councillors and their respective costs from their salaries. This may not be consistent with the government's pretending concern about the Czech Television's management and budgetary responsibility. So what can we expect? We can expect a new director of Czech Television to come and say: Dear citizens of the Czech Republic, we need to increase our fees because we have decided that we will have three councilmen more, and someone has to pay them, and I would have to release some editors or I would have to look somewhere else for that money. Of course, the TV budget is huge, about 8 billion a year, but I am convinced that we can expect that even though there were about 3 billion on the reserve fund four years ago, it is already dissolved, and I am convinced that we can expect it to come either old, old-fashioned, maybe old-fashioned now that the five-coals have passed this law, the director of Czech Television and will say: Pay, citizens of the Czech Republic, I have no money for three new councillors. The government coalition, however, seems to still not completely give up its ability to replace and control the entire Czech Television Council. It follows, inter alia, that in September last year, the House Election Committee recommended to the House not to approve the annual report by the Czech Television Board on the activities of the Czech Television for 2021, while rejecting two of these annual reports by the House means the possibility of calling off this council as a whole, all its members, and electing new members immediately. By the way, it is the second time that the election committee of the current House proposes not to approve the annual report of the Czech Television Council, because it did not recommend approving the annual report for 2020. If the House, as a whole, respects its electoral committee's recommendations, the path to the appeal of the entire television board and the election of the new according to government notes is completely free. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the government amendment is not based on a detailed evaluation of its content and timing of anything other than the preservation of Czech television and also the Czech Radio as power instruments in the hands of political parties, which form the current government and the government coalition, the parties involved in controlling these public media and their control councils, so much that none of the main attributes of the free and democratic political regime are trodden in the election in personnel matters. We have witnessed this here in the House on this occasion several times. When this ruling five-calice tried to elect the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio secretly, some of its own Members did not vote for these candidates and secretly could not vote for them. That's why she chose to vote for acclamation, which means by raising her hand to see who comrades are disobedient in a five-calice. And when they realized they couldn't do it all the time, they figured out that part of the board was going to vote in the Senate, where the five-calice had no opposition, or only minimal. Well, he has no opposition, no organized opposition, so I think it's going to be a very clear matter, and what they won't be able to choose here, they'll be passing on to the Senate. By the way, the government is planning the same thing in large numbers for elections to the House and for the election of the President of the Republic by pushing through me at the beginning of the speech mentioned by the amendment to the electoral legislation, which would introduce into the Czech rule of law a so-called correspondence vote that makes it impossible for the secrecy and freedom of choice, and in addition gives great scope for all kinds of electoral fraud and manipulation and discrediting elections as such and trusting citizens in their results. It is reasonable to believe that those who, in such a fundamental way, repeatedly violate fundamental democratic principles in an attempt to strengthen and preserve their political power over the public media will not be embarrassed to break these principles, including the principles and values of free political competition, freedom of expression or political pluralism again and again, even if it is through the supervisory boards that public service media and through their leadership that decide to influence the political situation in our country. And that has nothing to do with freedom and democracy anymore, on the contrary, it would be a return to a regime that was neither free nor democratic. The SPD MP club therefore clearly rejects the submitted government proposal as completely incompatible with the constitutional system of parliamentary democracy. Literally scary is also part of the amendment to this law, which says that media councillors will only be able to design organisations that are older than 10 years, that is, the ones that have already been tried, funded in the long term, such as nonprofit organizations with political agenda of progressiveism and so-called liberal democracy, for which we mostly don't even know who is funding them, because when we tried to do it by law, so that even these organisations would have transparent accounts and mandatory showing who is funding them, it was rejected. No one knows who's funding them. We can imagine which world side, but that's about all we can do about it, unfortunately, against this liberal progressive hundred-eight. The SPD movement has already proposed here several times in the past period that nonprofit organizations should have a transparent account, so that we know who is funding them, who wants to gain and have political influence in the Czech Republic, who wants to control the political environment in the Czech Republic, but it has been rejected, so that Czech citizens should be offered councillors for public television and radio organizations, where we do not know where they are taking funds for their operation and who is controlling them. [[15.30 hours]] The submitted government proposal is an absolutely purposeful material from which, as a famous straw from shoes, the unbridled and poorly hidden desire to conquer and control both large public media, even at the cost of trampling public rights, such as the rights of association, which is also constitutional law and which should be universal. This right tells us that citizens can freely associate with different associations, organizations, not only political parties, and in various ways influence public life and participate in it if they comply with the constitution and laws, and they are to have absolutely equal conditions for the application of this right of association. And the government here suddenly comes up with a restriction that candidates for public media councils will be able to propose only organisations, legal entities that exist for at least 10 years. What's that supposed to mean? Why? Citizens and associations, such as various social, charitable organizations, but also sports unions or universities, which exist for example 8, 9 years and have had a respectable job, are they inferior according to this government? That's terrible. This is how government values decent and active citizens in quotes. What actually discriminated against those organizations that worked here for 8, 9 years? What did they do? Why do they have rights other than organizations that work here for 10 years or more? I just don't know, and I can't understand it, I think it's totally purposeful. But a senator who will be in office for a month and who has been voted for, for example, 5 percent of the eligible voters in his constituency, the television and radio councillor can vote. They're thousands of units that elected senators, thousands of people, citizens of the Czech Republic, but they can. The so-called TV sleeper revolutionaries, editors and associated politicians from 2000 and 2001 who then illegally acquired television broadcasting and still regard them as their own, which is the biggest defeat of democracy and the rule of law in the history of the modern Czech Republic, had the inscription Czech Television on their banners, among other things, ours. If the current government weren't hypocritical, the banner with the same inscription can spread out here in the House, in government benches or here in the Purple government benches behind me. But Czech Television and Czech Radio are fully funded by all citizens of the Czech Republic, no matter what political views they currently have, so these institutions belong to them, only citizens of the Czech Republic, and only they and their elected representatives in the main Czech elections, which are clearly elections to the Chamber of Deputies, which are the only ones who can give an objective picture through a proportional electoral system of the distribution of the political preferences of all citizens, have the right to control these public media and to make sovereign decisions about them, not a party of unelected political activists, politically proven or monochrome five-calitarian media governments. So I made it clear that the SPD movement's position on this amendment. The SPD movement will, of course, not support this amendment and we will vote against this amendment. That's right, Minister. [[To Minister Bax at the news station.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u5	Thank you. Mr Roman Bělor sent an apology at 16 o'clock for business reasons. And we can proceed to the next one in the general debate where we have Mr Jan Lacina, and Mr Radek Koten will then be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u6	Good afternoon, thank you very much. I'm not going to argue with the rather long previous speech, I just want to add one such information as education to a political scientist that may be floating around in the air somewhere, and that is that so-called liberal democracy equals parliamentary democracy, please, okay? Parliamentary democracy is what we are experiencing here today, and I hope that most of us who make up 200 members of this House are clinging to parliamentary democracy and would not want to change it. By the way, the public services media, whether Czech Radio or Czech Television, are one of the important stabilization factors of parliamentary democracy in our country, especially because they have to critically look at what is happening on the political stage, that they have to control the government, and they should have enough suitable conditions prepared for this. There are two main criteria. The first main criterion is independence, which means that the current government majority cannot reach Czech Television so easily. The Czech Television Council is supposed to become independent between the current government majority and the Czech Television, which is why I consider it a very good signal that the House is prepared or ready to share the choice of media advice with one third of the Senate, colleagues from the Senate. The reason is basically simple. Today, indeed, this government has a majority in both chambers of Parliament, but, as we know from history, this situation can change very quickly, the Senate usually responds to the composition of the Chamber of Deputies and vice versa, or these two chambers often face each other, and that is precisely why we are taking this step today, and I hope we will appreciate it in the near future or farther away. The second important criterion is the sustainable financing of both public services media. You who observe this or know the subject more closely, you know that under the direction of Minister Baxa and his deputy Mr Šašek, a working group has been formed, which is working intensively on this subject, and I am an optimist and I believe that this second problem will be solved by the end of the year, because, of course, funding is the second major pillar of the independence of both public service media. We're taking the first step today. I hope we can bring him to a successful end this time, by the end of this year we would like to take the second step. I would like to remind myself of two quite important anniversaries, on the one hand, that the Czech Radio is celebrating 100 years this year and I think that its existence is not over at all. Even some of my colleagues, media experts, claim that the radio has a greater future and a greater perspective than Czech television, for many reasons. And then I would like to remind myself of the second anniversary, namely that Czech Television celebrates 70 years this year since its first trial broadcast, which took place on May 1, 1953. I'm still looking at the notes... Basically, from all the things I've noted here, I wouldn't want to comment on anything else. I hope that today we will be able to approve this standard, take that first step, and that the Chamber of Deputies will show that the motto that the carp will never release its pond is not 100 per cent, but that in this case, the House carp are ready to launch part of their pond and share the choice of media councils with colleagues from the Senate, because the long-term future of the public service media will certainly appreciate it. Thank you for your attention and have a good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u7	I also thank you and another one with his contribution is signed by Mr Koten - I understand he is not present in the hall. Mr Aleš Juchelka, who is present, will be prepared by Mrs Iveta Štefanová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. So you took it quite quickly. Here was a lovely introduction by Minister Baxa. I, of course, disagree with this amendment, a small amendment to the Czech Television Act, I have a problem with it, I have been critical of it several times. Finally, of course, we have a government coalition here. And why did that bother me? It is for this reason - and I am saying this here again - that the government coalition is constantly attacking not only the public service media, but at the moment we also see, for example, an increase in VAT on newspapers, which is the highest in Europe, so, for example, our older fellow citizens, who are dependent on information only from the radio, television and, of course, the daily press, will already have difficult access to buying newspapers. But I'm sure we'll get to all that. [[15.40 hours]] If I go back to that little amendment to the Czech Television Act, of course, if we repeat all the arguments here, where this suspicion is, of course, due to the election of the CEO, where today, a final five was chosen a few minutes ago to fight for the position of CEO of Czech Television, we were de facto able to stabilise the situation on the board, thanks to the amendment that I tabled with Minister Baxa. We have 15 members there, we're going to vote for the new CEO the old-fashioned way, that is, not in the chaotic way that the Ministry of Culture is presenting to us in the future. That means another ratio is going to be, and that's going to be the majority ratio in the election of the CEO, but it's going to be a senseless two-thirds in the removal of the CEO. I do not understand this at all, so I ask the House very much to bring back the original intention, where it should be two-thirds of both the election and the dismissal of the Director-General, my amendment, which I have there with Mr Kolovratník, and, of course, I could chop up several other nonsenses here again, we did it during the third reading at several extraordinary meetings of the House. At this point, of course, I have a few questions about the Director General, which is related here to this small amendment, namely with a big amendment - that is, when will the big amendment to the Czech Television Act, which should address sustainable funding, be? We were also promised to participate in this as an opposition, and it was promised here publicly, so I ask, when will we be invited to such a meeting? And thirdly, if he could tell us by now that the amendment is being worked so hard, what financing models are expected for the future in public media? And since it's connected...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u9	Please talk to the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u10	Sorry, no, I said the CEO, but I am asking the Minister, Minister Baxa, of course, what financing models are expected to be, whether we can say it in advance, whether it will be on an electricity invoice or from the state budget, or linked to a gross domestic product, or just by a sharp increase in licence fees, which would, of course, be - and the Minister knows - very short-sighted when we find ourselves in the 21st century - so I myself wonder how he will answer these questions. Otherwise, of course, I am glad that we were able to push the government coalition to move that period of effectiveness to 1. 10. I am glad that this government coalition has accepted this, so I hope and wish all the candidates to actually participate fairly here in this competition for the election of the CEO of Czech Television, and I hope that we will see that white smoke as soon as possible on the Kavčí Mountains, because there is nothing better than having a stable public service media with stable management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u11	Thank you. Mrs Iveta Štefanová is then signed in, and Mr Jan Síla can prepare himself. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also briefly comment on the amendment tabled here. First of all, I'm going to sum up some substantial changes that the novel brings us. This means an increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18 members and to 12 members of the Czech Radio Council. Members elected by the House and newly also by the Senate will therefore be represented in the board's leadership. The amendment also suggests that the law states that the Chamber of Deputies may withdraw the Council if the Council repeatedly fails to fulfil its obligations under the law, or if the Chamber of Deputies does not approve twice in a row the annual activity report or the management of Czech Television and Czech Radio. The government's programming statement states that it will focus on the sustainability of public media funding, which is a fundamental condition of their independence, the management of public media that will be subject to control by the Supreme Audit Office, which will strengthen their transparency. The Freedom and Direct Democracy Movement has long criticized the level of management and bias of broadcasting public media. We take the view that licence fees should be abolished, Czech Television and Czech Radio should be transformed into state contribution organisations whose management should be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. Unfortunately, there is nothing to be done in the amendment to the Act on the Management of Public Media. Last year, Czech television managed the budget of more than 7 billion crowns, which is a significant amount, and its management is not subject to any control at all. By increasing the number of members of the Czech Television Council to 18 and Czech Radio to 12, there will only be an increase in the costs of the remuneration of these new members. The government is called budgetaryly responsible, but it does exactly the opposite. The submitted amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act is only trying to control these public media, and I fundamentally disagree with this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u13	Thank you, too, Madame. So now another speaker, Mr Jan Síla, will be prepared by Mr Karel Sládeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to also comment on the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, and given that there has already been a lot of said about this amendment of my own, I would rather say my own opinion on the whole issue. The Fialův Government has announced radical changes in public media. He plans to gradually deploy today's Councillor of Czech Radio and Czech Television, but it will not only remove one individual and replace them with the same, only with another party plaque, and the caravan will not go on, but will limp further. The more Czech Television homogenizes us with flat-rate news, predefined series, philosophy of humor and consumption and average education, the better and easier the Fialův Government will control us. Just as he who controls the money flows controls the laws of the country, so the masses are controlled by the one who controls the media. This old and simple rule is said to have been spoken by Nathan Rothschild and is still in force. His father did not hesitate twice to buy all the major news agencies - Wolff(?), Reuters and Havas. And preparations for the world war, as for the Bolshevik Revolution, could have been started without further ado. The more accurate the knowledge of the political climate in the system is, the better can be manipulated by public opinion and control of the political system. It's a closed circle. Discipline such as political science, sociology, psychology and others provide appropriate tools to understand the dynamics of society and transform the knowledge gained into political processes. It took months in the 19th century, today it takes a few days. [[Noise in the hall.]] Thanks to electronic communication, an appropriate response can be generated to the public almost immediately. This is a very practical achievement of modern times, because public opinion in liberal democracies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u15	I'm sorry, but that's really... Please, on the left, two talking people, don't make me name, please, to keep the call down and transfer to the lobby. Next time, I'll name it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u16	This is a very practical achievement of modern times, because public opinion in liberal democracies ultimately decides on the agenda of political representation and through regular elections and specific political actors. [[15.50 hours]] But back to Czech TV. Once upon a time, fairy tales were the pride of Czech television, which also offered fairy tales of extraordinary quality. The new premiere fairy tales of Czech Television are just a very salesive, stitched-up fairy tale bag, full of patches. If there's one place or two, it won't hurt. Even if it wasn't new and they gave some of the past, they'd do much better. Czech TV is haunted: If we don't get money, we have to save money and we don't get a premiere story like in the past. So the poor kids are gonna take it. It is similar to blackmail tactics, as when Czech Television stopped buying licenses for premiere sports broadcasts. Today we only see our second league on TV and think we're getting somebody to let us go, for God's sake, Champions League, that's out of the question. He's only on pay-per-view channels. We see them taking the strategy across the board. She's attacking the kids, the regions, the sports fans over there. The whole point is that they want to pull a lot more money out of us than they have so far, and it is also necessary to take into account some context with the choice of ČT members. And that's what today's novel about Czech Television is all about. Our politicians - they will have to reason with Dvořák in some way, as they had previously agreed with Mr Šarapatka, when the board went to the Director General and agreed to everything you said. Now we are in a situation where the five-wheelers are trying to get their nominees into the Czech Television and Radio Council. A five-sponsored party that connects only their Euro-Hourism and the effort to remain in power is unable to agree on its candidates so that the election can take place traditionally by public vote and by a declaration in the House. And this is actually the main and fundamental reason for the amendment to the Czech Television and Radio Act at the same time. On the issue of freedom of speech, the Chief Prosecutor recently said: "It is a concept of a state which is based on strategic communication across public institutions and is aimed at protecting the values from which democratic legal states rely. " There's only one way to understand that. The state will strategically communicate with the public through public media, which will thus become official proclaimers of official state policy. We know that from somewhere, especially I remember it very well at my age. And what happened to the words about the impartiality of public law journalists, "fall to whom" passwords and so on? Everyone knew that former Prime Minister Babiš was in everyday conflict of interest. That's why he bought the media to protect him in this position. When Babiš's company won a state-owned billion-dollar tender, whether on forest work, supply of biodiesel or food supplies, no one commented. Prime Minister Babiš showed us how to run the state as a company every day. His firm. The media didn't really comment on it again. All anti-corruption nonprofits were also practically silent. All you had to do was make former Director Transparency mayor. Manipulation and information is the essence of communication, given that we almost never share the facts, but we always care about something. Manipulation is everywhere in communication with others. Manipulation is such, it is a common part of everyday life and we meet it in every form of communication. It is important to expand between manipulation generally socially accepted and propaganda, which always brings us something negative and unwanted. In the event of political debates, we cannot even assume anything other than manipulation. It is traditionally declared that the aim of the politicians participating in the debate programmes is, in particular, to create and strengthen pseudo-positive programmes, images and to defend opinions representing the political group. Much less is said, however, that opposition politicians often do not have the opportunity to speak calmly. Usually, they have to defend themselves against the opinions of an artificially created counterparty, thereby strengthening the general awareness of their rudeness and lying. There is no possibility of a dignified presentation of opposition party policy on Czech television. A politician who resists accusing an opponent and a moderator is easily placed in an angry opportunist's box. Moderators of political debates are programmed to commit manipulation or other offences that a journalist should not do. Traditionally it refers to partial, well recognizable manifestations of the inclination of moderators to a particular person - it is such nonverbal expression of no, and consent, smiles, differences in the way questions are asked and a different degree of protrusion, different provision of space for expressions and the like. We've all seen it before. Of course, these individualities appear in all moderators and are quite easy to recognize. Often, however, the behavior of the presenter in the studio represents only the imaginary tip of the iceberg. What is crucial is what remains hidden in our eyes, and these are behind-the-scenes ties in the form of prearranged questions, preparation of the overall script and so on. Be vigilant and think about the true nature of the spoken, and sometimes it is enough to deceive us. Maneuvering can't be avoided. The reason is simple: we do not want to live with a paranoid feeling of constant distrust of everything and everyone. Noam Chomsky analyzes the art of rule using a propaganda machine and comes from the ideas of the paradoxes of the power of philosopher David Hume. Hume's thinker is stunned by the ease with which most leave power to the minority, and says that this is only possible through mind control. Littmann, considering the media, talks about redoing public opinion from the troubled herd into a passive observer. Chomsky describes the art of covering up and diverting attention in our media, and the Czech News Agency is particularly informed, and so, in the interest of Western society's strategy, they also dispose of the public. The entire Western media world has accepted this art of propaganda machines as its own. Not that our media is directly telling lies, because they can easily slip through. Lying and indoctrinating the majority population in a different way, cleverly and ingeniously, so that what does not fit into the elected political line of the political party state or perhaps even more powerful media institutions is simply obscured, or if the matter is so outrageous that the public resists, while completely impossible to hide, the second principle is applied from the instructions for the operation of the propaganda machine, which is a diversion of attention. A media conjure simply makes an event of great importance, or one that can absorb the public's ability to perceive anything else. In this situation, at the time of Václav Havel's death and funeral, the media were so overwhelmed that people were talking a bad joke that they could see the funeral at every opening not only of television but of refrigerators. And at this time, without any media response, President Václav Klaus signed the Act on the abolition of nonprofit hospitals, opening the last path to privatizing hospitals and commercializing health care. Today, all media are once again overwhelmed by the collapse of the state economy, with the need to introduce a consolidation package and reduce elderly pensions, which we can also see figuratively at the opening of the refrigerator. I was wondering, what do you think the government wants to cover up with a theatrical, vague press presentation? As I read almost all the House prints, I realized that theatrical printing in the Czech Republic is the cause of the press 241, which means a treaty on defence cooperation with the United States with the current regulation of our constitution. This treaty has already been adopted by our government and which we are about to vote on, too, here in Parliament. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the relevant treaties - that paragraph is called kázeň: "Acknowing that the Czech Republic has primary responsibility for maintaining public order in its territory, the US armed forces may, in close coordination with the relevant Czech authorities, approve the use of the United States armed forces outside the premises referred to in paragraph 2. 1" - that means outside military bases or logistics centres" as you wish - in order to maintain discipline and order in relation to US armed forces." Who will ask if the U.S. military starts to order outside the logistics centers after whether they were really soldiers of the United States or if they were rebel Čech? [[16.00 hours]] "Acknowing that the Czech Republic has primary responsibility for maintaining public order on its territory, the United States armed forces authorities may, in close coordination with the relevant Czech authorities, approve the use of the United States armed forces outside the premises referred to in paragraph 1. 1." So that is true, and if the five coalitions succeed in pushing through the legislative process this treaty, including the amendment of the Constitution, then the Czech Republic will definitely only become a colony of the United States without any sovereignty and rightfulness. If the abrasion of the majority society would no longer like it, what is the solution in this situation? The last solution to this is patriotic war. That is why there is an amendment to the Constitution and the so-called Treaty of Common Defence with the United States, which legalizes the possibility of ordering the territory of the Czech Republic by the United States troops and outside the territories of planned military bases. Biľak and his invitation letter from 1968 is a rag. The current government does not have to declare any new elections or elections. Are you saying she has to? You're wrong, you don't have to. It has 109 votes, and there is the term "crisis states" in our constitution. I quote: "In the event that the sovereignty of the state or the territorial integrity of the state or its democratic foundations is immediately threatened, a state of threat is declared by the Parliament of the Czech Republic. In order to declare this situation, a majority of all Members and a majority of all senators must agree to its announcement" - which today is richly held by the five-calice. Thus, by this media-devil method of the brain processing machine, we are today and daily blushing in our so-called free and democratic republic, both from the broadcasts of our radio and television, as well as from the pages of the newspapers. This is the most passionate effect of Czech public television, whose preamble to the western media is already carried out by tested practice. I quote: "The Czech News Agency is to present a forum for public debate. In this it is possible to express the broadest possible spectrum of views and aspects, and its intelligence is to be legally impartial and independent." The whole Republic and all its citizens know that literally everything that is solemnly declared in this preamble is nothing more than a pitiful and literally sarcastic mockery of the real state. Everyone knows that only supporters of a single political direction are employed and accepted in the Czech Television machine. It would be universally referred to as havelistic and anti-Russian. No one can work here, and there is also no such eccentric who would express himself or possibly encourage guests to express the broadest possible spectrum of views and aspects. When any of the invited guests speak differently than they correspond to the general truth, the ČT machine is immediately interrupted. In addition, it is interrupted in a way literally violent, pushed by the moderator into answering another question, so that such an insignificant previous speech guest booked quickly. This propaganda machine method even paid off in a debate with a media magician such as Noam Chomsky. It was incredible that the Czech Television invited this guest with a critical view of America's current policy at all, but when it happened by mistake, the host was properly instructed how to conduct the call. So as soon as Chomsky began to talk about the loss of freedom in the United States, he was almost shouted at by a young moderator by another question. Thus, the rare guest obediently quieted down and as if with a memory of the same moderator procedure in his own country, he smiled bitterly and eloquently. There are thousands of proofs that the ČT machine does not in the slightest express a forum for public debate in which the broadest spectrum of views and views can be expressed. Millions of eyes and ears watch the evidence every day, if they are still being watched. For example, when was the last time you saw Tomio Okamura on the Czech TV screen? Why doesn't the editor of Czech Television in Washington go talk to former Minister of Reaganův's Government, Paul Roberts, quoted today and daily on hundreds of Internet servers throughout the globe? Or did you see on the Czech TV screen footage of Kiev, on which former government police officers are sprinkled with gasoline and then lit? No? And the pictures from the Beijing military parade? Nothing either? Well, I guess that's how it is. In the first political debates after 1989, the popular moderator Otakar Černý - "the spectator asks" began with the question. So I'm asking. Does no one in this republic really have the power or ability with this insolence of the ČT machine, a united party from the Kavčí Mountains, and on the same platform of a unified editorial team of radios to make order? Can the government or Parliament not intervene against this staged, uncritically taken over by our media? No, really, no one? Are we all really so helpless and must we take the lie of machinery from the Kavčí Mountains, from the Vinohradská class and so on, which mainly wipes our youth's brains out, let them live or even pay for their lies for eternity? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u17	Thank you. In the meantime, Mrs Eliška Olšáková's apology came: she apologizes from 16 to 17.15 hours for work reasons. Mr Karel Sládeček is also signed in, and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for an amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act contains some fundamental changes. The members of the Council will now be elected both by the Chamber of Deputies and by the Senate. At a time when the government should be saving, it proposes to increase the number of members of the Czech Television Council from 15 to 18 and the Czech Radio from 6 to 9 members. This will increase the cost of the remuneration of these new members, which will be paid from the budget of Czech Television, i.e. from licence fees, but it is an unnecessary waste of our citizens' money. The government should save mainly on the operation of the state, instead the government of the five-wheeler is unnecessarily increasing the number of councillors on Czech Television and in Czech Radio, for the sole reason that both public media should dominate. Another reason is probably the creation of new jobs for their related people at a time when all citizens are teasing their belts. Thanks to the recovery package, some will lose tens of thousands of crowns a year, and the government is once again cheering and laughing at the citizens of the Czech Republic. According to the Czech Television Act, one of the main tasks of Czech Television is to provide objective, verified, in its whole balanced and versatile information for free making of opinion, which is not happening. Czech television has long failed to fulfil its main tasks, its broadcasting is objective, unbalanced, distorted and often false. That is why its credibility is historically the lowest level. In the opinion of many people, Czech Television was part of President Petr Pavel's campaign - as if they had a prior agreement on what they could and should not ask. For example, the imbalance of the presidential debate before the second round of the presidential election, which Mr Řezníček moderated, was right in the eye. Mr. Řezníček asked Mr. Babiš about his cooperation with StB, but Mr. Řezníček Pavel to ask Mr. Řezníček about his training as well as the KGB comrades. It was also incomprehensible why, before the presidential election, Václav Moravec invited only three government presidential candidates, Mr Pavel, Mrs Nerudová, Mr Fischer, to his questions. This debate has once again been completely biased and unbalanced. [[16.10 hours]] The amendment of the law wants to completely control the Czech Television, the Council of Czech Television and the Council of Czech Radio, to ensure the choice of the new director of the Czech Television. That is why I will vote against the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is not present in the hall, so Mr Jan Hrnčíř will have the floor and Mr Ondřej Babka can prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to comment on the proposed amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act. I think it is time for Czech TV to change from scratch - whether its funding, its reporting, its management, everything needs to be changed. However, there is no such need for adjustments in this government amendment. On the contrary, what this amendment contains makes me nauseous. This is a fundamental change in the way in which the Czech Television and Czech Radio control councils are elected, where the government coalition promotes an adjustment according to which a third of the Senate members would vote in the future, which has only been the Chamber of Deputies so far. He would just like to strongly point out that the Czech Television Council is to oversee the Czech Television, and therefore it needs to include personalities representing the widest possible part of the public. The Council should then be politically neutral. In direct conflict with this requirement, however, the proposed amendment is just another step towards the complete political domination of Czech Television and Czech Radio by the ruling coalition, because while the Chamber of Deputies represents, in essence, the relative way the will of citizens, the Senate has no legitimacy in this. Individual senators are elected about 10 per cent of the electorate and thus represent an absolute minority of the public. It is clear above the sun that even the proposed increase in the number of members of the Czech Television Council has one goal, namely three more paid seats for loyal candidates of the government coalition, in order to ensure control of the election of the CEO of Czech Television, which is due to take place in June. In view of the distribution of forces in the control body of public television, it cannot be excluded that no one can be chosen for the first attempt, as is apparent from the recent statement by the President of the Council of Novák, who said that Czech television is facing a stalemate. Choosing a new director will be difficult, so it can be expected that the new director will be decided only when the government coalition allows its loyal councillors. The proposed amendment will thus lead to a further departure from democracy towards the political dictatorship of the ruling coalition, and I cannot in any way agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Ondřej Babka is also signed in, who can now join the counter, and then Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. I will ask the Member to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u22	Thanks for the word. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members who are currently present, I wanted to speak right after today's speech by the Minister, who launched our next debate on this amendment today, because we have been having this debate here in the House for quite a long time. The government coalition has been trying to enforce this law since last year, and thanks to our efforts, and because of what bothers us about the amendment, we are still here today at a relatively advanced time of adoption of the amendment. I wanted to respond precisely to the Minister's words because he said that he wanted to refute our assumptions, my assumptions, and I believe that our comments were relevant, that our comments on the fact that we were discussing this amendment at a time when it was already announced, when the tender for the CEO of Czech Television was announced, so that these comments were relevant, and the Minister confirmed, of course, that he had reached an agreement on the deadline, but that is what I will get to do. I will base my argument on a hypothetical situation. Today, Minister, there has been another shift in the open tender, today you can read it in the media, five of these candidates have been selected from several candidates for the Director-General of Czech Television and five candidates have been selected five times ago, the five main candidates who will make the shortlist have been selected by the 15 councillors. And that is the hypothetical situation, Minister. Imagine that we would not have built that law if we did not draw your attention to these comments, and perhaps that law would have already been in force. The Senate would have already elected three new councillors, and today 15 councilmen would have chosen the five, but the new CEO would have elected 18 councillors according to the new conditions you have in this new law. You were the one who said that you had come to the conclusion, after due consideration, that it would be nice for the law to be effective only from 1st October, but I can say that you have taken a mature view of this, but still this situation, which could have occurred if the law had been in force, you must all acknowledge that it would have been somewhat strange that 15 councilmen would have chosen the current 5 nominees for the CEO, but the new CEO would have chosen the councillors 18 under different conditions. Let us hope that this will not happen again if we are likely to get to the vote on the amendments today. So our comments, which we had just about the date of application of this law, were entirely relevant and concerned the possible impact on the election of the Director General. The point, of course, is that the newly elected CEO would, of course, be marked by this and could harm him. That means that you said here today that there's some kind of agreement that the effectiveness of the law will be from 1. 10. 2023, at that time, should be after the first or second round or what round of election of the Director-General. I'm, and I deliberately read the term "1" in this second reading. 1. 2024 precisely so that there could be no threat to the selection process, and also because you read the 15-day efficiency after the announcement. We generally disagree with this law, of course we will not support it, but we respect that you want to enforce it, of course no one is taking this option away from you, but the effectiveness was one of the many complaints that we have about this law as an YES movement. We would never come up with a proposal to increase the number of councillors from 15 to 18, namely, of course, the Coron at this time, when many of us and many of the state institutions should somehow be reduced economically, and here you are increasing the number of councillors on Czech television. [[16.20 hours]] Of course, we would never tighten up the opportunity to nominate people for the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council. I saw the Pirates press conference on Tuesday, where Vice-President Richterová - I am talking about her, not her - so Mrs Richterová bragged at the Tuesday press conference about how tougher it would be for people to sign up for membership of the Czech Television Council or the Czech Radio Council. [[Responses from the newsstand.]] But it's public media, it's public television! That TV is everyone's, and it's supposed to be for everyone. All citizens of this country are dealers and should be able to supervise public media. So boasting that we are tightening the opportunity for associations and legal persons to nominate members to the Supervisory Board, whether Czech Television or Czech Radio, does not feel right, and I repeat, as the YES movement, we would never have come up with such a proposal. I also personally disagree with the fact that in this amendment you divide the choice between the Senate and the House. My view is that this option should remain only for the Chamber of Deputies, and I am surprised that we want to give it up voluntarily, that you want to give it up voluntarily, colleagues, but that is, of course, at the discretion of each and every one of you. I wouldn't put up with this. I also slowly come to what the House probably approves and does not approve today, and this is the amendment of my colleague Lacina and colleague Juchelka. The law itself, in the original one, which you sent here as Ministry of Culture, is that the appointment and dismissal of CEOs will be an absolute majority. Lacina's coalition proposal was passed by the election committee. In this respect, my colleague Juchelka proposed to tighten this up, which means that the appointment and dismissal of CEOs must be new for even two thirds of the councillors, and my colleague Lacina proposed an amendment, which is under letter D, which reduces these figures, which means that the appointment of CEOs will require an absolute majority of councillors, but to appeal two thirds. This amendment also does not seem entirely logical to me, and frankly I am not yet fully determined whether it is necessary to support it, and if you are going to get to the final word, Mr Minister, I would - even now? Great - so I'd like to hear arguments about why support the proposal. The amendment, which is worth mentioning here and which is certainly good to support, is an amendment by the electoral committee which changes the name of this electoral committee, but it does not really have anything to do with the public media at all, but we will be happy to be members of the Committee on Media Affairs as members of the electoral committee. As has already been done here several times, for us it is only a special purpose law and a tender amendment since the beginning, when you have sent the first proposal here at all as the Ministry of Culture, now the second one, which in my view only harms the public media and their image, and I am a little surprised that since you have to know that any debate about public media that is going on on here does not contribute much to their good image, and therefore it is a little too bad that you have not been more ambitious and that you are actually only sending here a novel that changes the number of councillors, but about the functioning of public media as such, about the solution of their problems that they have in the long term, which they have called for to be resolved, whether it is the definition of the taxpayer of the public charge, about the definition of the public charge, about the financing of public media that you have not been more ambitious, and this law is only a dedicated change in councils, and not about the real problems of Czech Television and Czech Radio. As I said before, both institutions, whether Czech Radio or Czech Television, loudly respond to the requirement to solve the problem of their financing, which is set out out outdated, is an outdated definition of the taxpayer, it is outdated to define the television and radio charge itself. Our legislation has been out of date for years and has not responded to technological progress at all, and the amendment that you have tabled here and which we are dealing with today does not address this at all. Today, the amendment merely addresses some of your problems, which do not exist, and on the contrary, the amendment is effective in what it is not supposed to be effective at all, in the intervention of government politicians. I guess that's all for me at the moment. I will be glad, Minister, if you will still respond to some of the criticisms that have been raised here from my mouth, because I would like to work exactly on why we will have a different call for dismissal and another call for appointment, and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u23	Thank you, too. The Minister has applied with a request for a performance with priority rights. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to respond in particular to the appearance of honourable fellow Members of Juchelka and Ondřej Babka. With the full respect of parliamentary democracy and the representation of individual parties here in the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to leave it without the reaction of colleagues from the SPD, because with their content it is really difficult to argue, as Mr Síla, for example, said here, we would probably get into some debate which would go beyond the discussion in the third reading of the amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio, and where we really fundamentally differ in our view of the world. And now to the two colleagues who spoke here. I think that in individual readings of the draft amendment to this law or these laws, we have already touched on several times on some basic different approach to how we perceive the role of media advice. I just want to say very briefly here that I consider it just right for the Senate to be involved in the election of media councils, and for all other elections, I want to stress this, for all other elections this will create for any political representation that will take place here in natural political cycles, a much greater obstacle in any way to influence the activities of the public media and, among other things, the election of CEOs through members. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to mention just one thing here, in the speech by the absent President of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, or the President of the SPD, Mr Fiala, concerned that we want to spread censorship here or that VAT on newspapers is dramatically leading to a reduction in media independence. I just want to stress one thing. If we are moving in this discourse, in this debate, yet independence, independence and consistent protection of public media, namely Czech Television and Czech Radio, in this debate, I would say a very turbulent time is a key tool in maintaining some independent information and the degree of objectivity that comes out, and I would like to stress this, from some internal procedures and standards of journalistic work. This, among other things, certainly belongs to this debate, which will undoubtedly take place when the consolidation package is discussed here in the House. On the individual partial comments that have been made here, I will just remind you that the different election and appeal of the Director-General is an instrument for any media council not to say I would say relatively easily to get rid of the Director-General. Finding two-thirds of the votes is definitely more difficult than the over-the-half majority. I think it's the right principle. My colleague Berki here reminded me that he mentioned in his speech here that the same mechanism was chosen by the rectifiers, which I do not know and we did not inspire ourselves with this, and it is interesting to say so. So, my colleague, through Madam Vice-President, thank you for this remark. In the other arguments that fell here, whether they're nominating organizations, I think there's been some basic explanation here. I am convinced that extending the number of board members, in this case we are talking about Czech Television, will help things with the size of this institution. Of course, it will cost some money, but I think that it is the funds spent in favour of democracy and the public media. That's what I think is right. Now, about the questions asked by Juchelka about the big amendment to the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio Act. We said I'd slow down the work on this so-called big novel. It has not stopped, the coalition working group is, of course, meeting, but I sincerely admit that, with some limited possibilities of my ministry, we have preferred to complete a brand new law in recent weeks, a bill on a public cultural institution, which has already headed into inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and at present also very intensively running work or finishing work on a major amendment to the audiovisual law, which are two key standards. So the work has not stopped, it has slowed down slightly, and it will certainly be an opportunity in the coming weeks to talk to opposition representatives about the principles of this big amendment. I do not want to specify any specific partial conclusions by saying that the discussion is still going on within this working group. Let me just remind you that we are considering both the extension option of concessionaires, I mentioned this here, so there is also a discussion within the working group about some changes, meaning an increase in licence fees. I want to reassure not only here Members of the public media believer based on the concessionary principle that we are not considering the fundamental transformation of public media, as one of the colleagues mentioned here, I think Dr. Štefanová, about the variant of transformation into state contribution organisations. There's no way we're doing that. We want to stay with the variant of public bodies financed by the concessionary system. This is about the basic questions that fell mainly from fellow Members of Mr Babka and Mr Juchelka. Finally, I will just add that our joint proposal to change the effectiveness of this law to 1 October of this year, I do not see it as a confession - I think it was said by my colleague Babka or Mr Juchelka - that your concerns were fulfilled, not at all. It is simply said that I would make a useful agreement within the group of those who are concerned with this issue, and I think that this is the right thing to do, and if it helps to adopt this law, which, of course, will regulate the activities of the public media in the long term, it will only be for the benefit of the matter. I am ready to respond to other comments and then I will definitely take a short final word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u25	Thank you, too. We took turns managing the meeting. I have two factual points, the first Mr Juchelka and the President of the Fiala right behind him. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u26	I don't want to delay it at all, of course, but thank you very much to the Minister for all the answers, for some hope that even though the work has slowed down, the big amendment will probably come to us here. We all know here, including the Minister, that the little amendment is just wrong, it is wrong, of course, in a few ways. I understand that we don't want to do this here any more and that the compromise of being distracted here eventually arose, I thank you very much for it, but if the Minister says the word objectivity a hundred times behind him and then independence and then democracy, that doesn't mean it's really in this law, and that's what the government coalition means because it's simply not. We see on those actions that it is the other way around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u27	Thank you for your time, and now it's President Fiala's turn. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u28	I would also like to add something, my fellow Members, to what Minister Baxa said here, and I must say that he quite surprised me with the constructive - no, he surprised me, Minister - with the constructive approach and I would recommend something else, perhaps you will take something from it. I believe that when we are making this TV board a bread advice that will not control anything and simply lose some of its powers and so on, that it would be good if the public media, that is, the Czech Television and the Czech Radio, controlled, for example, the Supreme Audit Office, because I think this is an indisputable authority on controlling legally public organizations, and I think it would look good. So try to write in your proposal for a big amendment that the House would approve that control - so that we don't have to worry about anything, because I'm convinced that if this authority checks public media, at least on the book and number side, we'll be clear that it's okay, and when someone says that it has a balanced budget, but the reserve fund in which it was 3 billion just fell apart, we just can't believe that it really is, that it has a balanced budget. So try to think about it, and I think that all the discussions about how Czech TV is running would stop, that we would read it in the annual report, and that it would be clear to everyone. I believe that the Supreme Audit Office for Public Media Control would be an indisputable authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u29	I also thank you for keeping time, and now Minister Baxa is signed up with a factual remark. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u30	Thank you for the floor. I just want to confirm that this is one of our objectives in media legislation. The extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office to public media is part of the Government's programming statement, and we certainly want to prepare this amendment of the Constitution; we have a clear view of this. I believe that this can greatly strengthen the perception of the role of public media, and this is also not entirely irrelevant - the public media itself does not oppose this because, by being constantly shelled because of the lack of transparent management, it sees that through the SAO at least this sharp criticism would be dulled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, I no longer see anybody, and Mr Koten is now in the debate. The Member cancels and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová apologized because of the illness, so I also delete it. I don't see anyone else in the debate. I'm looking around the O.R. again to see if anyone else is checking in. If that's the case... Yes, Mr. Juchelka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u32	Before we do the procedure, I would ask, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, to take a five-minute break before they all come together from the various committees and subcommittees sitting here, I think the government is sitting here, so we can all meet here in peace, so I'm taking a five-minute break on behalf of the ANO club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u33	Thank you, that's generous, so I'm declaring a break until 4:45 p.m. [[The hearing was suspended from 16.40 to 16.45 hours.]] Colleagues, colleagues, it's 16.45. I dare ask for silence in the room. Since Mr Juchelka has yet to speak in a debate that has not been concluded, I ask again if anyone else wants to speak in a debate? I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words? Mr. Secretary? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think I've said all the important things in the previous performances. Let me thank all those who have participated in this law on this occasion for the discussion, namely my colleagues Juchelek, Babka, Kolovratník and others, because this is simply part of the difficult discussion. I believe that this bill will contribute to strengthening the resilience of public media in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u35	Thank you, too. The rapporteur has yet to speak. Colleagues, colleagues, please, the minister here praised and almost couldn't hear him, so please keep it down a little bit. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u36	Thank you for the floor. In the final words, I will no longer evaluate the debate that the Minister has summed up, but as rapporteur, I will introduce you to two techniques on this law, because one has been heard x weeks ago. These are legislative technical amendments prepared by the legislation, and I will propose to vote on them in the procedure, so in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, § 95 para. 2, it is a minor legislative technical regulation, only the correct renumbering of internal references in the text, which does not change the content of both amendments and individual amendments. For the screen recording this text reads as follows: III insert a new point X which reads: X. In Article 9, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 11 and 13 shall be replaced by "9' by "10' and renumbered as follows.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u37	I apologize, rapporteur. Please, fellow Members, the rapporteur reads the proposals for legislative technical amendments and really does not understand them at all. Thank you so much. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u38	Thank you, too. The second technique that was said in the debate, but once again for the record, I want to say it as rapporteur here in summary - it is a joint amendment as the political agreement of Minister Martin Baxa and our colleague, President of the Election Committee, Aleš Juchelka. It is a correction of the effective date, which can also be submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, § 95 para. 2. This amendment reads: "Part IV, Art. 4 Efficacy. This Act shall take effect on 1 October 2023.' I will suggest this to you as an adjustment in the voting procedure as a difference from the procedure prepared by the guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u39	Thank you, too, rapporteur. Since there has been a motion to reject me, if the rapporteur controls me, we would be the first to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u40	So we should be doing the right thing right now by proposing the whole procedure, Madam President, with the two additions that I have announced. We have to vote on the procedure. Then there would only be individual steps. So my proposal for a procedure is as follows: vote first, because a motion to dismiss the law has fallen. Second vote - proposals for legislative technical amendments, as I made a little while ago. Third vote - adjustment of the date of effectiveness pursuant to Rules of Procedure § 95 para. 2. If the effectiveness adjustment is voted on, there are unvoted amendments B by Minister Baxa and F of Mr Ondřej Babka, both of whom concern the same. Furthermore, the votes of the Committee's proposals separately, A1, then A2, then A3. Subsequently, the group of amendments, Amendment C, by one vote. If it is approved, it is unvoteable - the author here is Mr Aleš Juchelka - Amendment D to Mr Lacina. If C is not approved, then D shall vote jointly with one vote. In addition, Amendment E to Mr Hendrych and finally to the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u41	Thank you, so first of all, we will vote on the motion to reject, then we will vote on the procedure and then on the amendments. [[16.50 hours]] So once again, we are now voting motion for rejection. I'm initiating the vote and I'm asking you to unsubscribe, yes, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I am, I So let's just wait a little bit longer for our numbers to settle. So now we are voting a motion to dismiss. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 72, 155 Members and Members signed in for 69, versus 86. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the procedure as proposed by the rapporteur. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 73, 154 Members and Members, in favour of 152, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Now, according to the approved procedure, I would like the rapporteur to make amendments to us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u42	So please vote first on the proposal for legislative technical amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u43	Opinion? [[Positive.]] The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 74, registered 155 Members and Members, for 140, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u44	They will now - now please vote on adjusting the date of effectiveness, this is the joint proposal by Minister Baxa and Mr Juchelka, to move to 1 October 2023. My position as rapporteur: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u45	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 75, 155 Members and Members signed in for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u46	Thank you. This vote has become an unvoting amendment B to Minister Baxa and F to Mr Babka. Now three votes on the committee's proposals. First, please, A1, which was submitted by Members of the Election Committee and renamed the Election Committee to the Media Affairs Committee. Opinion of the Committee: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u47	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 76, 157 Members and Members signed in for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u48	Thank you. Next vote - A2, joint proposal by Members of Kolovratník and Juchelka, unification of laws on Czech Radio and Czech Television, where the conditions for the termination of the position of CEO of Czech Radio are specified. Opinion of the Committee: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u49	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 77, 157 Members and Members signed in for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u50	Thank you. Next - A3, committee proposal or adopted by the committee of Members of Kolovratník, Juchelka, once again unification of laws on radio and television. Here is a better definition of performance and termination of function and removal from the position of CEO of Czech Radio. Opinion of the Committee: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u51	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 157 Members and Members signed in for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u52	So B is unvoting. Now the proposal, which has parts C1 through C4, has one vote, i.e. letter C. It is a parliamentary proposal from the Chairman of the Juchelka Committee and this amendment returns the quorum to two thirds of both the appeal and the election of the Director-General of Czech Television and Czech Radio. The opinion of the Committee shall be negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u53	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting No 79, 157 Members and Members signed in for 72, versus 84. The motion was not accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u54	The proposal under letter D now consists of parts D1 to D4 of Mr Lacina, and this proposal has the same logic, only the two-thirds quorum returns only when the Director-General of television and radio is dismissed, leaving half the majority of the board members or members present at the election of directors. The Committee's opinion is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u55	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 157 Members and Members signed in for 87, versus 67. The motion was accepted. We can come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u56	Now the letter e, Mr Hendrych, which aims to abandon the rule of the replacement of a third of the board members after two years. Positive opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u57	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 157 Members and Members signed in for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. Please come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u58	Amendment F is also unvoting. With this, we have exhausted all the amendments and we have to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-17-ps2021-065-02-010-098.u59	Thank you, rapporteur, and since all the proposals have been voted on, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, Act No. 484/1991 Coll., on Czech Radio, as amended, and Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, according to House Press 263, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 157 Members of Parliament signed up, for 87, against 70. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[17,00 hours]] And I end this point and I open point number
