ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u1	1. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence /German press 462/ - second reading Minister for the vote. Please, before I open the item, please, for the vote, Minister Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Just for the tape screen, I voted yes, I'm on drugs, and I'm late. So I voted in favour. Thank you. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Now, I ask the Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová to take the floor, and I ask you, my colleagues, to be quiet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, after three weeks we are here again to discuss the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence, signed in Washington, D.C., on 23 May 2023. We are in the second, i.e. the final reading. We have discussed a number of issues relating to the content and interpretation of the agreement, and I firmly believe that all these questions have been answered, either from the level of committees or here at first reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I would like to say that this is indeed a historic moment, because this agreement gives our country another security guarantee that fits the overall alliance framework and deepens not only defensive cooperation with our most important ally. [[14.20 hours]] The agreement is fully in our national interest, and I would like to underline that it demonstrates that our relations with the United States are at a very high level today, which is undoubtedly valuable to us. This is particularly important in view of the current security situation, where, unfortunately, only a few hundred kilometres from our eastern borders, brutal Russian military aggression is taking place and when Europe has been threatened by the greatest war since World War II. In this situation, we cannot do without a strong alliance with other democratic countries. Without prejudice to the outcome of today's negotiations, I very much appreciate the fact that the negotiations have been conducted in a correct manner and that not only I, but also other colleagues, have had a substantive and rich discussion, which has undoubtedly contributed to a better clarification of the purpose for which we conclude the DCA and its fulfilment and importance. I also appreciate the fact that the foreign and defence committee has taken a constructive approach to the negotiations on this agreement and has come together to discuss it last week so that we can continue today with just the second reading. Thank you to President Metnar and thank you to President Ženíšek. I thank my colleagues from both committees, of course, and I thank the Senate, who also agreed to ratify last Thursday. I would like to make it clear here that our government in the field of defence and security does not want to wage a political struggle with the opposition. The country's defence and security are and have always been the areas where consensus is to rule instead of politics. That is why I, too, have devoted myself to the negotiations on DCAs with opposition parties, not only I, but also my colleagues, quite a lot. I appreciate the attitude of everyone who perceives what a key document is and does not spread speculation or misinformation. That is exactly how we should approach our country's defence. For this reason, I would also like to thank for the proposal for an accompanying resolution on the DCA, which should be read here today by mutual agreement with the ANO movement and which we will support as a coalition. It will be a clear message to the public, to which the Chamber of Deputies will confirm that no speculation regarding the potential military presence of the US under this agreement is true and that Parliament's sovereignty in the matter of deciding on this military presence remains to be maintained and that everything that our Constitution says in Article 43 absolutely applies. Finally, I want to reiterate once again that the DCA is fully in line with our national interests and is a standard international agreement that has already been concluded by 24 Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance and which is developing and complementing the Alliance's collective defence system, where the United States of America plays the most important role. I am ready today to complete the debate on this agreement here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I believe that we will find agreement on the agreement on its ratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. To the vote? Mr Zuna, then, to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I still want to express my will to vote in favour of voting number 3. I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. So we are now going back to discussing the point and, please, to the rapporteur of the foreign committee of Mr Marek Ženíšek, to justify the resolution of the committee that has been delivered as House press 462/3. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The Foreign Committee dealt with the press at its 22nd meeting on 13. 7. 2023 and the Government's proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has given its consent to ratifying the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, adopted a resolution which I would like to introduce to you: [[Agreement]] After explaining the reasons for the Head of Defence Policy and Strategy Section of the Ministry of Defence of pan Jireš, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, Lieutenant General Karel Řehka, Mr Marek Ženíšek's report and after the debate the Foreign Committee recommends The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at a meeting of the Foreign Committee. Which I just did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. I therefore now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Mr Josef Flek, to justify the resolution of the committee, which has been served as Parliamentary press 462/2. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would like to present to you the resolution of the Defence Committee. In the meantime, I would like to thank the opponents, the YES Members, who have had a substantive debate. We had a really thorough discussion on the subject, and there was an hour and a half of debate, and I think it was really material. Once again, I would like to thank them and thank my coalition colleagues. Resolution of the Committee on Defence of the 30th meeting of 13 July 2023 on the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence, House press 462: Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence Mgr Jana Černochová, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic, generálporučík General . Karel Řehka, MP Mgr Josef Flek and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence, signed in Washington on 23 May 2023, House print 462, II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic; and III. Instructs the President of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, too. I am now opening up a debate in which three Members with priority rights have come forward and four Members then in a general debate without priority rights. Tomio Okamura will be the first to perform. If he's not here, his application's not until later. Chairman Fiala is not present either. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Vondráček, with the opinion of the club of the ANO movement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u12	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I didn't expect to come so soon. So, ladies and gentlemen, to begin with. I would consider it a complete tragedy and bad news for the Czech political scene, even the media, if the debate on this agreement were to be limited to the fact that it is either an invitation letter, as Tomio Okamura here called us - demagogically, I must add - or that anyone who is in agreement with this agreement and wants this agreement and does not push it enough... Sorry, I said that wrong. And whoever's against the deal is the fifth column of the Kreml. Between these two positions is a huge variety of opinions, a wide range of different people who have something to say, who care. Personally, I also consider it offensive from both sides when someone is labeled that way. [[14.30 hours]] As an YES movement, we want to discuss this agreement realisticly, practically, rationally from the beginning, because it is basically part of the mosaic of security guarantees that the Czech Republic has within the international community and even about the position in the world. Of course, there's a lot to blame for this deal. For example, I was one of those guys who was in that dedicated regime and had the opportunity to get to know the text. I didn't like some turns. Perhaps it deserved better some Czech editorial of the Czech version. I understand that the meeting took place in English and that it is simply a translation from English. But that's not the point. This is essential, and the main position of the YES movement is that this agreement actually in some way deepens the security of the Czech Republic, follows our NATO membership immediately, and some debate about changing the direction of the Czech Republic is not on the table at the moment. That the topic is being abused, either from one side or from the other side, and we want to talk about it reasonably as much as most people in the Czech Republic do. It is true that people have the right to be concerned, they have the right to ask questions already because of our historical experience as the Czech Republic we have already because of the situation we are in. We may all agree that if we ratified this Treaty in 2019, for example, it might be in the first and second reading block on Thursday between 11:00 and 1:00 p.m., and it would not attract more attention, but at the time of the conflict in Ukraine, this is an extremely sensitive matter. People are worried, and I'm saying again, they're entitled to them. And in this part, I'm critical of the government coalition. I really think the communication here deserved even more massive, explaining the campaign should have been bigger. For this reason, the YES movement has prepared an accompanying resolution on this agreement, which I will present in a moment, which we have also presented to the coalition, we have introduced the coalition to it, because we want to proceed fairly, we do not want to be surprised, and in some way we have reached a consensus on what we think should be in that accompanying resolution. Just for your information, in the context of international contractual law, as well as mutual correspondence, as well as various interpretation interpretation clauses and discussions in the House and this accompanying resolution may then be the basis for any dispute in the future and should this agreement be interpreted. For this reason, we come up with a resolution which I will now allow you to read: "The Chamber of Deputies, in the context of expressing its consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence, states that I. the conclusion of the Defence Cooperation Agreement means deepening defence cooperation between the Czech Republic and the United States of America and contributing to greater security of the Czech Republic, as transatlantic cooperation is the basis for collective defence of NATO countries; II. possible presence of the armed forces of the United States of America on the territory of the Czech Republic is possible only with the consent of the Czech Republic and full respect for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the rule of law of the Czech Republic; III. the agreement does not establish the right to deploy nuclear weapons in the territory of the Czech Republic; III. The agreement does not give the armed forces of the United States of America the right to build permanent military bases on the territory of the Czech Republic or to reside permanently on it." So much for the text of the resolution. We stress precisely that there is a role of Parliament and it will always be Parliament, it will always be the Chamber of Deputies, which will decide on the presence of foreign troops in our territory, and this agreement does not change that. This agreement is basically a framework agreement on what conditions and rules U.S. military members would be moving here if they were invited here if they were doing some kind of activity here. We may all wish he'd stay with the "if," stay with the framework, but we'll have some conditions ready. This is the most important thing for us at the moment - to explain to these people that no one is passing them, that signing this agreement does not change in any way the security situation of the Czech Republic, but even, I don't know, our internal conditions within the Czech Republic. That, of course, if foreign troops were to be present on our territory, Parliament would not be circumnavigated and we would always be debating this issue in our Chamber of Deputies. I thank all those who participated in the debate on the accompanying resolution and those who are able to do so in a rational way, in peace to read the resolution and say that it may not bring anything new, but it is good that we say it here and that we will approve it here. Because - I can't think now, I didn't mean to say we're sending a signal, it's not good to say lately. But it'll be a short story, it'll be a very important thing for those people, so they don't feel like they're dealing with them without them, as they've done in the past many times, and they're careful, they're concerned. I've really met a lot of people lately, I've been addressed on the street too, I've explained to everyone that the thesis of the occupation contract, the vassal contract, that they're really just some kind of condoms and that really it's basically a technical agreement about how it would work here. But it is important here to stress that it is - that it is nothing about bases, it is nothing about nuclear weapons, it is not about the residence of foreign troops in Czech territory. And in this respect and in this spirit, the YES movement will always speak, because the voters of the YES movement, and not only the voters of the YES movement, are very careful in this and they have the right to do so. Well, that's it for me. Thank you to all those who will vote in favour of the accompanying resolution. One copy for the petitioner and one for the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Now I'm going to load up the apologies. Members of Kott Josef apologize from 14 to 14.30 for working reasons, Krutáková Jana from 14.30 to 16 hours for work reasons, Svoboda Pavel from 14.15 to 14.25 for work reasons, Šafránková Lucie from 14.00 for work reasons. Now the two speakers who are registered with priority rights have already arrived, so we continue to follow the order as they have been logged in. Mr Okamura will appear first, followed by President Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have abstained from demonstrating against this treaty, which is before the Chamber of Deputies, where I have spoken. And because the SPD movement says no! the stay of foreign soldiers and foreign bases in the Czech Republic, so I was among the citizens, I discussed with them there, I got on the stage and now I'm here. Well, right now we have a point in front of us in the House again, which is the Agreement with the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, which was approved by the government of Petr Fiala and the ODS on 26 April and subsequently signed by Secretary of Defense Černochová from the ODS in the USA. [[14.40 hours]] And now the House should approve this agreement. On behalf of the SPD movement, I will stress at the outset that the SPD is saying clear not to American soldiers and foreign bases in the Czech Republic and we will vote against this agreement. And I have noticed that the SPD is the only party in Parliament to vote against, as the YES movement will vote in favour of this agreement, and the YES movement has already expressed itself in that sense. So the SPD is the only party in Parliament to vote against foreign bases in the Czech Republic. The SPD movement is therefore the only opposition party against the government coalition in this matter. And I'll add that we don't want any foreign military bases here, even if they're from the east or west. And we don't want any foreign troops staying here, even if it's from the east or from the west. We believe that the government should put a referendum on this question as to whether foreign military bases should be here and whether there should be a long-term stay of foreign soldiers. The SPD referendum law, which allows such a referendum, has already been submitted to the House and is waiting for discussion here. Fialův's five-calice government is blocking our referendum. Again, on this issue, the SPD referendum is completely alone, because the ANO also rejects a referendum that would allow a referendum on international treaties. This means, for example, about the withdrawal from the EU, about the migration pact or just about this treaty of the Czech Republic - USA. That means we are the only ones here in the House who advocate a referendum, including the possibility of referendums on international treaties, and that's just the way it is. And we will continue to fight for these issues. The treaty with the US, this treaty with the USA is not a cooperation agreement, but a treaty for the future military presence of the US in the Czech Republic, which allows the armed forces of the USA to use 11 military spaces and buildings, at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov, will also be able to use the military training premises of Hradiště, Libavá, Boletice, Březina and use the barracks in Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav. In all these locations, the US can build its own buildings, including food stores, open catering facilities, banking services, social and educational centres. Here I would like to refute the argument, or I would like to comment on the argument that the Minister of Defence, Černochová, and the representatives of the government, liked to say that even a possible US base or US military presence must be agreed by Parliament. Well, here's most of you as the government. Here you have most of you as government, and you did not say before the election that you would want - you did not tell the voters before the election, during the election campaign, that you would promote the presence of American soldiers and foreign military bases in the Czech Republic. You don't even have a mandate here! That is why we are saying that this should be a question for the referendum. Because you didn't say anything like that to citizens before the election, not even the YES movement. That means, I know that Parliament can decide almost anything, but here is the difference that you didn't tell anyone before the election, even though you knew. You knew very well that such a treaty was being negotiated in other NATO member countries. Not all of them have it. That means you knew it, but you kept it a secret, so you don't have the legitimate right to do this in my opinion to push this serious thing through not with a hundred and eighty this time, because the YES movement also votes for the treaty, but just 180 to 20. That is why I say it should be a question of referendum. So your argument that this will then be voted by Parliament, where you have a majority, I wanted to explain to you here that it is true that you have a majority here, but this is a subject that you did not even mention before the elections. It's something like that, but a little bit from another keg, of course, like you said before the election that you wouldn't even increase taxes. ODS claimed. And now you're raising them. So that's actually what this is about -- but it's a little bit different because it's another option that you didn't keep quiet, but that you said you even lied about not raising taxes. And now you're raising them. So it's there, of course -- but it's something like that, here I'd even say it was a voter scam, because this is the crucial thing that you're going to raise taxes across the board and that you're going to keep it from the elections, so that's really what I think you couldn't possibly have the vote that you had, because that would be a lot of citizens, especially the ODS voters who are hooked on it, so of course they wouldn't give you the vote. But I'll get back to the subject. So voting for Parliament is not an argument here, because you did not go to the elections on this issue, with this serious issue, and you did not tell the citizens in the elections. So then, if you're doing an additional vote here that you don't actually have a mandate from the electorate at all, and it's this big a deal, that's different. So that's just the argument I overheard from the government officials, and perhaps from Secretary Černochová. So it's a little different in my opinion, in fact. In the event of the approval of this Treaty, they will be able to move freely in the Czech Republic and operate the armed forces of the USA, including family members. And once again, we don't want bases here, nor soldiers from the east, nor from the west. Because I know again, I see President Pekarová here, so I know again that if you don't complete it completely half-pathically, everyone else understands it, she'd be writing again: they're pro-Russian, pro-Plutinian. He's lying again after that, so I'd like to stress that for the second time so we don't sit on our ears as usual. And that includes family members, like I said. So, with the agreement of the Fialův Government, U.S. military personnel favored the diplomatic mission level. This Agreement introduces a free mode of arrivals, departures, the introduction of any movable items and the storage of weapons and ammunition into such premises. This without the possibility of controls by the Czech Republic. De facto it will be a similar principle as applied to the territory of the embassy. So we can't go in, we don't know who's in there, what's stored there, and we don't know what's going on here. In addition to ensuring discipline and order in the case of protests against US armed forces in the territory of the Czech Republic, they can be used for deployment even outside the 11 locations, anywhere in the Czech Republic. The agreement is even concluded for 10 years when it cannot be terminated. Well, I'll comment on what I've heard here from the previous speaker from the YES movement. That's a very alibi attitude. On the one hand, you open Pandořin's locker and agree to the possibility of foreign troops staying, the possibility of these bases, so the ANO movement votes for it, and then you say that when it comes to the House, maybe you won't agree to it, but the government has a majority in the meantime, so they're still saying it. So it'll be your fault, too, when the American soldiers are here, and it's your fault, of course. So we don't make half-assed decisions. I didn't deliberately name a colleague here because I like him as my previous speaker. But those are excuses. So either you're in principle against it and you're not going to support it, but this lavaration - and because I know your real reasons why you're voting for it, I mean, I heard it right here in front of me, but I'm not going to discuss it here. I just understand your reasons, but I don't agree with them. I don't agree with them, because we, as SPD, have a clear view of this, and it's not possible to be here in this, because in the future, you want to be there or onde. It's just a principled thing. So I don't even want to comment anymore, that's all I'm saying, and I don't intentionally name a colleague, because, as I'm saying, I think we have a fair relationship, but they're unnecessary outbursts here. So, from our point of view, this agreement is unilaterally disadvantageous for the Czech Republic, does not give similar rights to Czech soldiers, their family members or other civilians in the territory of the United States of America. The name of the entire agreement assumes defence cooperation, but the content of the agreement is intended unilaterally for the USA to adjust the residence of their troops in the territory of the Czech Republic for at least 10 years. Even the number of U.S. Armed Forces in the Czech Republic is not limited. [[14.50 hours]] Defence Minister, as I said before, Mrs Černochová repeatedly assures us that the presence of the US armed forces under this agreement will be subject to Parliament's approval. When I look at the agreement itself, I don't see anything about delaying the application of the agreement there. And I have already expressed my opinion on this vote by Parliament. The Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following the exchange of notes that each Contracting Party has complied with its national procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement. Then everything that's written in it is automatically valid. No delay. There is an enormous risk that, after ratification, the government will quietly allow the US to proceed according to the agreement, and there will be no further approval for Parliament. By the way, in Slovakia, they have it, which, of course, woke up a big storm. Then they put in the interpretation clause. Well, American soldiers are already there in two places. American soldiers are already there in two places. So that's how it goes. As for the fact that there is a really enormous risk that there will be no further Parliament for approval, the government will give the utmost formal approval, or the agreement will proceed automatically with the US armed forces, which will be here, so-called exercises. It is not enough verbal assurances from the secretary or other members of the five-calice, if I ignore the distrust of the verbal assurance from our point of view. I already talked about ODS. After all, you promised before the election that you wouldn't raise taxes - now you're raising them across the board. So how are you supposed to believe that? Like when, basically, in these fundamental things... I know something can change on the move, but those are such crucial promises, those are so crucial stencil vows that, if you break like that, we can't trust you in this. In our opinion, it is necessary to write directly into the agreement that this is not an option to proceed directly under the agreement and that prior to the application of this agreement on the territory of the Czech Republic, the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament will have to be requested. But as I was saying, our proposal, which is ideal for us, is a referendum. It is also extremely disadvantageous for the Czech Republic that the agreement cannot be presented to any court or national or international court. This passage should be changed and, above all, it should be necessary to change the negotiation period from unaccountable 10 years to the possibility of termination within the horizon of months, otherwise this agreement obliges several other governments. That means, it's been a decision for a few more parliamentary periods, we don't know how many, but at least 10 years is a two-and-a-half standard term, so of course that's totally unacceptable, because there are a lot of things that can happen in those 10 years. And if you look at the world scene, the movements are significant. And the truth is that, even economically, countries around the US find themselves on the sidelines one at a time. And it's a question of how it's going to be in other areas at all. Otherwise, we also believe that this agreement should also be seen in the context of the Government proposed by the Constitution amendment, namely Art. 43 constitutions that concern the defense of our state. The SPD movement filed a motion for rejection in the House hearing. And I would also like to put a motion under Section 63 to adjourn this item indefinitely. And I ask that this proposal of mine be voted on after the end of the debate. As far as the constitutional-legal committee is concerned, we have proposed to the Defence Committee and to the Foreign Committee to discuss it as well as the constitutional-legal committee, because in our view it is necessary to assess the constitutionality of this proposal. As the Czech Republic is a sovereign country and citizens write to us, a number of citizens write whether it is in accordance with the Constitution at all? And the only two Members who voted in favour of this being discussed in the Constitutional Legal Committee were the members of the SPD representing us on the Committee, Jiří Kobza and Radovan Vích. So, of course, this also shows something that the members of the ANO movement and the members of the Purple Government Five-calice movement, and I am responding to my colleague here again, so you have rejected the opportunity to discuss this in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so obviously the ANO movement is in a hurry to do so, if it is not even worth the opposition members of the ANO to discuss it in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Then I don't really know. And I think if we look this deep, the SPD really is the only opposition party against this treaty. But the very startling thing is that, in fact, on this particular matter, the ANO movement has basically completely linked itself to the Fialův Government Five Coalition, that even you are voting in this way, which is very striking. But that's just how I'm commenting, because I need to say this to myself. I will remind you of the content of this government proposed amendment to the Constitution - now I am talking about the government proposed amendment to the Constitution, namely Art. 43, which we also have at the same time at the same time here in the House. At present, the Government decides on the posting of armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the Czech Republic and on the residence of armed forces of other states in the territory of the Czech Republic without Parliament's consent for a maximum period of 60 days in respect of (a) the fulfilment of obligations under international treaties and joint defence against attacks, (b) participation in peace operations under the decision of the international organisation to which the Czech Republic is a member, with the agreement of the receiving State, (c) participation in rescue work in natural disasters, industrial or environmental accidents. And now the government wants to insert a sentence in the Constitution when it comes to protecting life and health, endangering property values or the security of the Czech Republic. And it is clear that almost everything can be hidden in the interpretation of "security threats." Of course, when we see the policy of the Fialův Government, when I remember Prime Minister Petr Fiala saying last spring and lying and scaring us that the Czech Republic is at war, you would normally be able to drag us into the war completely lyingly and imaginatively, based on your activism. This means that we are fundamentally opposed to this amendment of the Constitution, because there is really nothing to hide under it, especially when there are activists in that government and not people who, with cold sense, assess the facts. That means, if this amendment were to apply, I will repeat, explain, so will Prime Minister Fiala, just like last spring after the start of the conflict in Ukraine... So he said that the Czech Republic was at war, and he would normally drag us into war, invite foreign soldiers here, send our citizens somewhere in Ukraine, and actually it would all be in harmony. This can't be happening! If it was a government that behaves normally, I might still understand. But your government, this is the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Defense, it's a very deterrent case of activism, where nothing really decides with a calm head and a cool mind. Screams, emotions, upsetness, loud voice calls. And that's how when it goes down at the Department of Defense, and it's not just the sparrows on the roof that are whispering about it, so it's a relative sign, so I'm going to be a sculpting, considerable restlessness. And that really doesn't bode well, if a person who should decide whether or not the Czech Republic should go to war should decide those who cannot evaluate things with cold sense and reduce their subordinates and reduce the ministry in peace. [[15.00 hours]] Since this is an agreement that limits the powers of the Czech authorities pursuant to Article 10a of the Constitution, the limitations of jurisdiction, the abolition of the countersignation of the Czech Republic by order of foreign troops, the elimination of courts in dispute settlement, I take the view that the agreement should be approved preferably by three fifths of Members and not only by half. In the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 26 April 2023, its decision, the Government's decision to ratify the defence agreement with the US, is still not admissible and logically justified. The justification was delegated to the Minister of Defence, who can never represent the ten-million-dollar Republic on such a fundamental issue. And he writes to us in this context a lot, a lot of angry citizens, that they don't want any foreign bases here, and I agree with them, nor do they want to open up room for this discussion. That is why we say that this treaty between the Czech Republic and the USA is redundant, because as a member of NATO, the Czech Republic already has a treaty that governs the residence of alliance soldiers in the Member States, it is NATO SOFA Treaty. So I have already talked about this, this issue should be decided in a referendum. Even the length of that ten-year contract, that's really a problem. I consider it a problem, because there could be a completely different distribution in society at the time, a completely different political representation. I therefore take the view that, in accordance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Constitution of the Czech Republic, citizens should express themselves on this Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on defence cooperation in a national referendum. And as I said before, I tried here about two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, just last month, to put our referendum bill in order to pass the referendum law so that citizens could vote on this matter in a referendum. You guys turned us down because you don't want democracy. You just want foreign soldiers in the Czech Republic and that's it. Well, that kind of word-telling thing that's a base and that's not... Don't be mad at me, but at the moment, any foreign soldiers will stay here long-term and use our buildings, so that's basically a base. Not that it's not. The base isn't just what somebody's building a new one. So it would be a good idea to be unbearable and tell yourself the truth. And as I say, I am a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region. And a number of citizens actually, and I've heard them say at least hundreds of them in this sense, even those who write to me, and that's just what I notice, so they're worried that American soldiers will be at Mosnov Airport, that they'll be staying there more long-term, and, of course, they're afraid that Ostrava may be the target of an attack. So that's the next thing you need to reflect. Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová of the ODS claims that the treaty does not impose any claims on US law in our country. Unless, of course, we want American troops here, the deal is useless. It is clear to everyone that the treaty is the basis for the future bases and residence of American soldiers in our republic. Well, I take the view of our citizens who, after experience from both World War II and 1968, simply have bad experience and have bad feelings, which is legitimate when citizens have feelings, and it is necessary to take full weight that they simply do not want foreign armies here, either from the east or from the west. And I would really like to ask government politicians to stop lying. Because when we say that we are against foreign military activities in the Czech Republic, some people like Mrs. Pekarová Adamová immediately put an equal between that, that someone is pro-Russian or pro-putin. Of course, this can only be written and claimed by complete idiots, because then Austria would be pro-Russian and pro-putin. Neutral Austria. But even this obviously doesn't bother anybody in the government coalition, or they don't know that. And they're always talking their nonsense and lies and they're causing fear and they're twisting the truth. So that's not true. Anyone who doesn't want foreign bases on their territory - and by the way, it's a large part of the Japonec, especially in the Prefecture of Okinawa, so of course no one can suspect them of being pro-Russian, that's not really a threat. So it's this kind of nonsense that I wanted to comment on here, too, because these, I'd say, well, I'm just gonna stick to the usual terms, so I'm gonna have to disprove them, too. Because the more Fialův's government five-calice is in a spasm, the more you're slipping down to that simple labeling. This means, for example, the Prime Minister says populists and extremists because he has no argument, no cure for expensive food, energy, and so on. He's got nothing. Nothing, because he's incompetent. So that's why he just slipped to the label. But, as you can see, citizens won't buy it. Well, of course it's with these other stickers. So I would rather welcome a substantive debate on this issue, because I am discussing this in particular, and even with the pensions we had here this morning, we have tried to discuss this in a matter of fact. Minister Jana Černochová further claims that Parliament is an insurance policy that can prevent the entry and permanent presence of US troops in our territory. That's what I said. It is, of course, nonsense, because the current government majority is voting without the mandate of citizens, without the public's consent anything they like. Parliament, both the House and the Senate, is no insurance policy. The insurance policy would be the referendum law, that's what the SPD suggests. We propose to abolish the Senate and, instead, to approve the insurance policy, to adopt the law on a national referendum. This is a genuine insurance policy for citizens of this Republic, citizens who, in my opinion, are the owners of this country. So, more precisely, the Senate and the House are no insurance policy for citizens, I say again, that would be the referendum law. But they are an insurance policy for the government and the United States to do what they want with our country, despite the resistance of most citizens of our country. And I mean that in general. So I say again, the real insurance policy would be the referendum law, which, however, the government coalition, but also the ANO movement prevents the referendum law from being voted on, including the possibility of voting on international treaties. So the stay of foreign troops, in addition under conditions that are out of the Czech law, and that is proven, is a huge restriction on our sovereignty, which has no right to consent to any government, no parliament without the consent of most citizens of the Czech Republic. This country, I wanted to tell you, it's not yours. This country is all of us, all citizens of the Czech Republic, and you should respect that and first of all ask for their consent. And I think that the Czech Republic, with a reasonable government policy, a sensible foreign policy, I've already given here those countries like Austria, Switzerland and other countries, so you can just be a country that won't pay for a war hunter. I will no longer personify it here today, but our goal should be peace and good relations with all the countries of the world with which it is possible and not war, escalation of tension and so on. I guess that doesn't lead to anything in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u15	Have a good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, Prime Minister. And now, with priority rights, President Radim Fiala is ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I am a little sorry that my two honored colleagues are not here - you see, Madam President, through you, as I politely say. And I expected that there would not be a flag of the European Union like last time, but that there would be an American flag and that our speeches would be accompanied by a protest against us and they would hold the American flag and wave it to the Czech Chamber, but not yet. Before I start my speech, I wanted to respond to Radek Vondráček and some people from YES who say there's definitely no base here. The contract that Minister Černochová signed with her American counterpart is clearly stated in the article. 2 that regulates the stay of the Army of the United States of America in the Czech Republic. So it may not be called a base, but it's a contract to stay the United States Army of America in the Czech Republic. So I think the Slovák have made it very clear. The Slovák have an interpretation clause, but I'll talk about it. Let me also speak here in the Czech House for the second time on the Czech-American agreement on defence cooperation approved by the government of Petr Fiala and signed by the Minister of Defence Jana Černochová here in Washington. I will repeat some of my arguments against this first reading agreement, and I will also add some new ones. This Agreement is in no way a standard bilateral international agreement based on equality between the Parties, i.e. participants, and the mutual advantages of the Contracting Parties. That means it's not a win-win deal. This is an absolutely uneven, uneven, treaty in which the Czech Republic is clearly weaker and subordinate. And this is completely unacceptable for us as patriots and patriots and defenders of Czech national sovereignty. And it is completely indifferent whether it is a treaty with the United States of America, China or anyone else. We would never sign such a humiliating, vassal-type contract in the SPD, and therefore the SPD MEPs will never raise their hand for it. By the way, in this context, it is quite interesting and telling what former President Václav Klaus said about the treaty. And that the Američan have been pushing for the signing and ratification of this treaty for many years, but no previous Czech government has accepted it yet. Why do you think? It's not that we don't want to cooperate with the United States of America or that we're a priori anti-American. No. We want to preserve the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, its equality and equality in international relations, our autonomy and our sovereignty. With this prism, we evaluate all international treaties. So much for an introduction. The advocates and promoters of this treaty do not tell us the whole truth and only incredibly mask its main and basically the only purpose which is to allow the United States Army of America to be present on the Czech territory and to prepare for it all the conceivable conditions so that this presence and this stay of US troops can be without a problem and very quickly implemented. The government and supporters of the treaty are still spinning on the word base and say that there are no bases, that there will never be US military bases. And beware, despite the fact that the government assigns the US military to the long-term use of 11 existing military facilities owned by the Czech state and the Czech army, while allowing them to build new equipment in the form of construction activities. That's totally smiling. So, well, we don't have to turn to the word base, it's a set of facilities and properties that will be used by the U.S. military purely for military purposes, there'll be soldiers living here, there'll be weapons warehouses, there'll be military cars running around, there'll be take-off and there'll be military planes landing, but it won't be military bases. As I have already indicated, government advocates and media promoters of this agreement are constantly repeating that it is not about placing American soldiers in the Czech Republic. The best argument against this claim is to read this contract thoroughly and study it. And then we find that a hundred percent of the contents of this contract, in addition to the initial preamble, are devoted only to and only to the smallest details of the setting of factual, legal, commercial and other conditions of long-term residence of US soldiers in the Czech Republic in facilities - now beware - which are not and will never be military bases, even if they fulfil all the characteristics and characteristics of military bases. On the basis of a detailed study of this Treaty, it can be concluded that its name may also be intentionally misleading. This is not a defensive cooperation agreement, there would be at least one two references to some type of defensive cooperation. There's not a word, not a line. Therefore, it is rather based solely on the analysis of its content of the contract for the future long-term stay of US troops in the Czech Republic. Let us call things true names and be honest with the citizens. Now I'm going to comment on the inequality of the Contracting Parties. It is clear inequality and one-wayness, not mutual cooperation and reciprocity. Until now, and this has already been said several times in the debates about the treaty, the status of American soldiers who are present, for example, at military exercises, is governed by the Treaty on the Status of the Armed Forces of the States of the North Atlantic Alliance of 1951. It is the so-called NATO SOFA Treaty, which largely balances and balances the rights of the state that broadcasts troops abroad, and the State that accepts them. And it is this SOFA treaty that is fully sufficient to regulate short-term stays of NATO soldiers in the country of their alliance partners. That is why we say that we absolutely do not need another contract of this type. However, the principle of equality between the Contracting Parties in the agreement that we are discussing is completely absent, because the United States is clearly gaining a privileged position here. After all, this is also the main reason why the United States is so pressing to negotiate such favorable bilateral military agreements of this type with different states next to or outside NATO SOFA contracts, which does not provide them with any special privileges. The fact that the Czech state is a weaker party in the treaty that we are starting to discuss today is all the worse and even more serious that this treaty, as an international treaty, will take precedence over standard Czech laws. Which in practice means that if our Czech law is contrary to this treaty, it will proceed according to this treaty. The inhospitability of the Czech-American Treaty and the fact that we are pulling the shorter end of the rope in it, and that we are also losing our national sovereignty, is very well seen, for example, in the areas of justice and criminal law under this Treaty. I was talking about it last time, and for good reasons, I'm going back to it. Just an observation, in Slovakia, the Attorney General wanted to talk to the Slovak National Council about Slovakia's sovereignty in connection with this Treaty, and Slovak Members did not allow it. They did not allow him to draw attention to the possibility of conflict with the Constitution of the Slovak Republic. Why wouldn't they let him if everything was okay? Well, we'll see about that in the future. [[15.20 hours]] The NATO SOFA Treaty provides that the State in whose territory the offence was committed has priority over the offence, except where such an act took place among the soldiers of the same State. Sure. I think that's exactly right. In a specific example, it means that if an American soldier had murdered a Czech soldier or a civilian on our territory today, our authorities would have prosecuted him. But if he murders another American soldier, he's being prosecuted by the authorities of America. I think that's right. In this new Czech-American treaty, however, our government completely voluntarily waives the right to prosecute all the crimes committed by American soldiers in the Czech Republic. It is hard to imagine a more illustrated example of giving up national sovereignty and equality of standing with a contractual partner. Regardless of the fact that the Czech government is completely trampling the rights of possible victims of crimes committed by Američan in the Czech Češíc and the rights of survivors not only in legal terms, but also in the family of morality and ethics. By the way, even the infamous and utterly humiliating Czechoslovak-Soviet treaty on Soviet troops' stay with us from 1968 stated that the crimes of Soviet soldiers on Czechoslovak citizens are being prosecuted by the competent Czechoslovak authorities. It was a disgraceful treaty that none of us would want to return to, but this Czech-American one is even worse for our sovereignty in some matters than it was in 1968. This is a disaster. Nor did the Czechoslovak government and the Communist leadership of the state in August 1968 give up this right in a servilious and flat-rate way. Minister Černochová responded to this at first reading by saying that the relevant article of the Treaty speaks of the fact that, in specific cases of special importance for the Czech Republic, the Czech authorities may withdraw this waiver from the right to prosecute all crimes committed by American soldiers committed in the Czech Republic by written declaration sent to the competent authorities of the armed forces of the United States, no later than 30 days after receipt of the notification of the commission of this offence. Of course, I knew about this provision of the Treaty, but I did not mention it last time, because its further contractual clarification is indeed a tragic business card for negotiators and perhaps even more humiliation of the Czech Republic than if this clause were not even here. The hypothetical possibility that Američan will not notify us of any crime at all, or his perpetrator will quickly disappear from our republic, because under another article of this treaty, he can travel completely freely, without any border control. But let's keep going. Let us admit that the Czech Party will request that the criminal offence of an American army actually be investigated. What will be the situation in criminal proceedings? It is governed by the relevant provisions of the treaty that, even if this case were of special importance and criminal proceedings were to be carried out by the Czech authorities, this American criminal soldier will remain under the control of the American forces until the end of the appeal proceedings, so he will not be able to be placed in our custody with everything that this can mean. Another point of the contract says that the US party will ensure the presence of this criminally prosecuted soldier in the Czech court, but only within one year of the initiation of the criminal proceedings. If this criminal proceedings are prolonged, the US Party's obligations will cease and this deadline will only be extended with the consent of the United States of America. Well, then we know how it goes. So what's next? Anyway, good-bye and a cloak. We all know how long criminal proceedings last especially for serious crimes. Investigation, trial including appeals for several years, never one year or less. I think, knowing what I just said, it was written in that contract, so it wouldn't be as loud as heaven. So this is the equality of the parties. This is the sovereignty. So something terrible for me. It is also absolutely essential and unacceptable that the provisions of the Treaty on the ground that the US Party has the right to free entry of military aircraft, vehicles and vessels into our territory with the possibility of refueling and landing without the possibility of controlling from the Czech side. The treaty does not distinguish in any way non-combat flights and transits, combat actions linked to collective defence against assault and offensive actions by the United States of America. The last time I mentioned a known analogy with the shameful bombing of the then Yugoslavia by the United States in 1999. If this contract passes, the United States can theoretically repeat it and use it as a base - sorry, it must not be called a base, it is like an airport or a property in which they will move - and exploit Czech territory against anyone and with all the negative consequences and impacts for the Czech Republic. In the contract, Petr Fiala's government also voluntarily waives the right to co-sign orders for the transfer of soldiers, which, under the rules currently in force and functioning, is allowed by NATO SOFA to the receiving State, and thus deprives itself of any influence in advance on who will reside in our territory in particular. This contract is also absolutely incredible in the fact that through Annex A it gives the United States Army of America unlimited access to the airport Čáslav, Náměšť and Pardubice, Mošnov airport and logistics centre, military retreats Hradiště, Libá, Boletice, Březina and crew Vyškov, Rančířov and Stará Boleslav. Well, I'll bet you how long it takes for them to be here in these not bases, but in these real estates. We'll see. I think it'll be very soon and then I'll come and tell you on the microphone. But they're not bases, please remember that. All these facilities are provided by the Czech Republic to the United States without any obligation to pay rent or other costs associated with their use. It is an absolute resignation to the duties of a proper economic operator and administrator of state property and public finances. It is a spit in the face of citizens, all honest taxpayers, who mostly involuntarily finance five-calice governance. Ask the elderly. It's impertinence! Madam Secretary Černochová wondered last time why we should demand rent from Američan. On the contrary, I ask - and why not? Does the government make any state property available to Czech companies and citizens for rent and long-term use normally free of charge? In addition, some of the land and equipment that the government wants to dedicate to the Američan are owned by the regions and municipalities, which is an unacceptable interference with the right to local authority guaranteed by the Czech Constitution. I am convinced that this is one of the points why the government members and members of the ANO movement in the committee did not have it examined by the constitutionally-legal committee as well as by the Constitution of the State and the law of the Academy of Sciences. The agreement under discussion is therefore an international treaty superior to the Czech national legislation. Moreover, it is a contract that is 10 years inexhaustible, which is completely non-standard - I will get to it in more detail - and any statement from the contract becomes effective only after another year after its submission. This agreement imposes extensive and costly obligations on the Czech Republic. On the contrary, the United States does not impose any or only minimal and rather formal obligations. And they're with us. They're in the Czech Republic! So we have responsibilities to them, but they have nothing to do with us. The Treaty clearly assumes that this is its essential content and also the basic reasons for its creation that premises and facilities will be created on the Czech territory - I repeat, not bases - premises and facilities that will be under the exclusive control of the U.S. Armed Forces, where no one else will have access, nor the Czech authorities. It will also be a dictorship of military premises and military facilities where American weapons are located, American military material under exclusive control of US forces. But, based on this description of the facilities, if anyone thought it was military bases, they'd be deeply mistaken. He's deeply wrong! This treaty is a resignation to the exercise of state sovereignty and nothing else. As I have already said, American aircraft, vessels, vehicles will be free to enter and move around the Czech Republic under this Treaty. [[15.30 hours]] With regard to weapons and other American military equipment that will be placed with us, there is only one obligation for Američan under the treaty arising: the import of such material is to be announced in advance. Thus only announced, but no longer controlled by the Czech party, as often the advocates of the treaty state. In the text of the contract, there is no obligation for Američan to undergo inspection of this material from the Czech side. So there could be anything. Anything at all. Like biological weapons, chemical weapons, nuclear weapons, anything at all, we just won't know. And they can tell us anything. If this treaty comes into force and is effective, we will have a state here in the state. A relatively large American enclave within the Czech Republic, where Czech law will not apply, but US law and where the Czech security and judicial authorities will not have access. I am convinced that the Slovak Attorney General wanted to draw Slovakia's national council's attention to this, but they didn't let him speak, they didn't even let him say it. The only right the Czech Republic will have here, which will be here and its citizens will have, is the fact that they will pay for the whole thing. The government's gonna take it away from the elderly. Then what wouldn't, right? The military presence of a foreign power in the territory of any state also leads, on the one hand, to over-reliance on an ally, to resign to developing its own defense, even worse, to bringing the country into military conflict. That's what I'm most afraid of personally. And above all, this foreign military presence and the privileges of a foreign army undermine our sovereignty and sovereignty. Let's not be vassals. Let us be a confident and sovereign nation and a state. Let us build our own defenses and join any military alliances as equals and let us not conclude fundamentally disadvantageous agreements for the Czech Republic and its citizens, even though they are falsely presented to us as the only possible choice between the West and Russia, between democracy and dictatorship. It's not true. According to the Czech Constitution, the so-called constitutional majority is necessary when approving international treaties in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate if the relevant treaty transfers some of the exclusive powers and competences of the Czech state authorities to an international organisation. That is what this military agreement is fulfilling - and you do not respect it. Because, as I have demonstrated, we give up, for example, the state of the right to prosecute crimes committed by United States soldiers on the Czech territory, including when their victims will be a Czech citizen. This is an intervention in our criminal jurisdiction, and therefore in our state's sovereignty. So the approval of this agreement should, from the logic of the matter, be subject to the need for a three-fifth majority of Members and Senators to vote in agreement. Yes, you can argue that the constitution still requires fulfillment of the second condition, the transfer of our state authorities' powers to an international organisation and not to a foreign state, as is the case with this treaty. That is formal, but I add two essential points. Firstly, the creator of the Czech Constitution 30 years ago did not even think that the Czech Republic should transfer part of its sovereignty and competence to a foreign state at any time in the future without applying the principle of reciprocity. A certain sharing of competences with the European Union, which was then created by the transformation of the European Communities, was expected to occur if we were to become members of the European Union. Two. I ask what is more important - that we give up sovereignty and parts of our exclusive national competences, or the type and nature of the entity to which we transfer them, in favour of whom do we surrender them? In my opinion, the transfer of competences, the surrender of part of our sovereignty, is clearly more important, and therefore a constitutional majority of the votes in both parliamentary chambers should be required to approve this agreement. If this were not the case, it would be appropriate for the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the parliamentary approval process of this agreement on the basis of an appropriate complaint. And we will call on all the parliamentary parties to sign with us on this proposal to assess it by the Constitutional Court. That's what I was talking about last time. And now I add that the fierceness that the government coalition is resisting any assessment of the compliance of this agreement with the Constitution, because there are reasonable doubts about it, is striking. This was the last time this happened last week when this contract was discussed by the House's guarantee foreign committee. Our Member Jiří Kobza proposed there a resolution that the Government should ask the Constitution of the State and the Laws of the Czech Academy of Sciences to draw up an expert opinion on the compliance of this treaty with the Constitution and Constitutional Order. How do you think this proposal turned out? The majority of the government members of this committee with part of its members from the ANO movement voted against, and the resolution did not pass. Why? Are you scared? What are you afraid of? That the treaty is against the Czech Constitution? Well, she shouldn't have been admitted. The rapid speed of preparation and signing of the contract is also totally unacceptable, and the fact that this process was essentially a secret, without adequate professional, particularly legal, and especially public debate. It is also very significant and rather special that this treaty, called the Defence Cooperation Treaty, does not address any defence of the Czech Republic at all. Not a word, not a sentence. Neither the defence of the border, nor the air defense, nor the defence against terrorist attacks, nor any other standard defense against security or military threats, although, excuse me, this treaty does contain one clause on defence. It's Art. 6 where it is said that the Czech Republic will take such measures as are necessary to ensure the protection, security and security of the armed forces of the United States of America. So, yes, part of the defensive treaty is when we here will defend the American troops by the Czech side. Those troops whose presence in our country may, on the contrary, create certain security risks and unpleasant incidents, as we can see in the states where American troops reside for a long time. After all, in general, this applies to all the presence of foreign troops in any country. I am referring, for example, to repeated Japonka by Japanese soldiers serving on the base of Okinawa Island, but this has already been spoken by President Okamura. Or the case of taking down a cable car in the Italian Cavalese by an American fighter from the foundation of Aviano. What followed? The Američan refused to hand over the flight crew to Italy for criminal prosecution, even though the Ital prevailed among the dead and the action took place in Italy. A competent court has been held in the United States. How do you think he turned out? All fighter crew members, including the pilot, have been released. The whole case in Italy had justifiably aroused scandal and damaged Italian-American relations. It may also lead to a stay of foreign troops in a country, plus a stay unnecessary, full of privileges for members of foreign armies. How do you think they'll behave if they know no one can touch them - neither the police nor the courts, the Czech jurisdiction. That he's outlawed? How will they behave? Well, we'll see. I'll remind you. And I am openly saying from this place that I do not want one single Czech citizen to die because of the presence of foreign troops - any troops - in our country, even if it is the result of an accident or an accident. I will therefore not vote in favour of this Treaty. By the way, in 2021, American soldiers, based on a similar contract in Bulgaria, occupied one Bulgarian private company, a sunflower oil factory. It has to be added that the American party apologized and added it by stating that there was no single shot fired during this incident. I don't think that's worth commenting on. I don't know if that would make me feel any better. The Czech-American Treaty, as I have already mentioned, only deals with and extends the fact that American armed forces will be deployed on the territory of the Czech Republic, which will not in principle be subject to our laws, our police or our courts. On the contrary, the forces that will be equipped with the right to take appropriate measures to defend the devices entrusted, i.e. in translation, what we must not say - in translation of the bases. What it means is we can only assume and fear it. For years, this government has been repeated to us that NATO membership guarantees us quite sufficient security and protection. Why, then, is a contract signed quickly, the only subject of which is the stay of American soldiers with us? Does this mean that NATO membership no longer guarantees us security? I don't understand. And if not, why are we not signing similar contracts with the European NATO Member States that are neighbouring us? [[15.40 hours]] The Defence Cooperation Treaty between the Czech Republic and the United States of America undermines our sovereign sovereignty and puts our country in a position of service towards Washington, which through this treaty ensures space and conditions for the long-term presence of its troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. Yes, and that must be repeated to citizens, because the government does not deliberately do so. Because the main purpose of the present agreement is to set the conditions for the unlimited operation of the US armed forces, their families and other civilian forces of the United States Army and the administration of the United States of America in the territory of the Czech Republic in designated military facilities and premises. Yes, with this treaty, we pass part of our territory and part of our competences and powers into the hands of a foreign power, which will thus mediatedly control the security and stability of our entire country. They can just do whatever they want. The amendment to the Constitution, which passed here in January, is intended to allow the Czech Government to decide, without Parliament's consent, on the stay of armed forces of other states in the Czech Republic within 60 days if it is an unspecified protection of life and health, a threat to property values or security of the Czech Republic, also strengthens the vision of this unfortunate future. These are, in my opinion, very rubbery and vague terms, under which you can fit a lot of things. Or else, it'll fit everything. Foreign troops, if this amendment passes, we can have here in the words of one ad before you think, and on top of that contract about their stay. The continuance of both of these initiatives, the Czech-American Treaty, and allowing foreign troops to be present on our territory without Parliament's approval, even for 60 days, and the pressure of the government on their approval is striking. At times, the current government, contrary to reality, appears to be the only political heir and defender of the post-November regime. The legitimacy of this regime consisted, among other things, in ensuring the departure of foreign, then Soviet, troops from our territory. But at the same time, the current government is doing everything we can to get foreign troops back here again. The treaty that we are discussing here is far more serious than the former US radar agreement in Brd, which deservedly fell under the table, even though the government was impersonating it as a harmless technical standard. Contract promoters say that this treaty contains nothing about military bases. I will repeat the purpose for which the Czech military facilities and premises are provided by the text of the contract to the armed forces. So by random: for the purposes of training, exercise, maneuvers, refueling, landing, temporary maintenance of vehicles, vessels and aircraft, personnel accommodation, assembly and deployment of armed forces and materials. They're not bases. So much for the last time to debate whether it's military bases or not. So each of you answer it yourself. The Czech Republic also renounces the requirement of passports and visas for the armed forces of the United States as well as for the civilians who will come with them. So our authorities won't know who came to us from the US, who's staying with us and who might have gone there again. This is partly the Treaty on the truly free movement of American citizens to and from the Czech Republic. There is also a provision that the armed forces of the United States will not pay any taxes or VAT in our country, so that the US party, with light exaggeration, does not even have to participate in a commentary procedure on the government consolidation package. As I have already submitted, this proposed Czech-American treaty is supposed to be unaccountable for ten years. In quotation marks, Minister Černochová and her subordinates negotiated it for us. This is therefore a commitment that goes far beyond the mandate of the current government by more than two additional parliamentary periods of the Chamber of Deputies and by at least more than two future governments, politically composed differently than the current one. At least I believe in it. Government politicians repeatedly tell us when we criticize their proposals and measures and try to prevent their approval for their obvious lack of quality and harm, so that we wait until we are in government when we have a parliamentary majority. Then let's cancel it. But now let them work, that they have the mandate of the citizens of the elections to make appropriate changes to the laws and to conclude the relevant treaties. Tomio Okamura already talked about it. I don't think that's absolutely true in this case. None of the parties to the government coalition had in the electoral programme a project to conclude a Czech-American military agreement on the presence of US troops in the Czech Republic. None of these parties has told citizens that they are planning to limit the sovereignty of the Czech Republic in such a fundamental and undignified way. Above all, this treaty does not just oblige the current government. If that were the case, the next government, perhaps with the participation of the SPD, can shut it down in two years. But this does not allow the text of the contract, because it is formulated, fortunately, not for ever, but for at least 11 years without the possibility of an earlier statement. For a period of 10 years, the contract is to be inexhaustible and then there is a one-year notice period. And such a commitment that goes far beyond its substantive and temporal mandate has no right to impose any right on our country and its citizens. By the way, something similar also applies to the change in the migration policy of the European Union, which has recently been provisionally agreed by the Minister of Interior of Rakušan with the support of Prime Minister Fiala. This would have to be preceded by citizens' expression in a national binding referendum, because it is a far-reaching restriction on Czech national sovereignty, which also brings significant security risks. So for us migration from 2023 onwards is equal to Minister Rakušan. Such types of contracts are to be the subject of a popular vote at all times and under all circumstances. What else, for God's sake, than the euro, migration, bases, presence of foreign troops - sorry, base, I misunderstood and I misinterpreted. Those properties with foreign troops in them, so what else is to be the subject of a referendum that citizens should decide on? I think that no one in this respect has the right and the mandate to put our citizens before this resolved, done thing. By the way, a referendum on this treaty, and we will endeavour to do so, could still happen after you push through this agreement through the ratification process, as a so-called referendum of approval, confirmation. This is common practice in the democratic world. Try asking about it. If the citizens say yes, we will not be thrilled, but we will respect that. Would you do the same if citizens said "no" and put this treaty on ice forever? Would you respect that? Do you even have the courage? You don't have the guts to ask people, or you would have. According to your statements, I don't think so. Not to mention that a strong and proud government would never sign a humiliating treaty for the Czech Republic in this way. The current government is neither strong, nor proud, nor sovereign, and basically Czech, I mean Czech with great Č. And its incompetence and incompetence in the area of state administration and its disastrous results in budgetary, economic and social policy are trying to conceal compliance with the European Union and the United States of America's guidelines and commitments while still inhabiting the Strakov Academy. I hope that won't be long now. Ladies and gentlemen, I take note that some or all government political parties want foreign military presence on Czech territory, including American presence. I don't want it. I respect their right to have this view and this conviction, although I do not share it completely and I reject it. But dear colleagues, even if you want this military presence, did you really have to negotiate a treaty that governs it in such a vassal and for the Czech Republic a disadvantageous and humiliating version? At least answer your own questions. I'm clear on this contract. For factual reasons, which I have given two relatively detailed discussions here, and because I follow the conviction of British conservative thinkers that the nation is a community of dead, alive and still unborn, I will vote against its ratification. In the interest of the present and future of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was the last logged in with priority rights. Mr Jan Síla will now appear and prepare Mr Karel Sládeček. Before I give Mr Sílo my word, I will read the apologies. Cogan Josef apologizes from 15 to 18 o'clock for work reasons and oborný Monika from 15 o'clock for personal reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Dear Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the current DCA agreement, which is intended to allow for the residence of US troops in the territory of the Czech Republic. We are talking about the ratification of the DCA contract signed by the Minister of Defence here under the authority of the Fialův Government. I will not discuss the individual points, which my colleague Radim Fiala, through the Vice-President, took a pregnant approach. However, I cannot begin by agreeing with the honourable Dr Vondráček, through the Vice-President again, with a motion for a resolution, which actually describes the same arguments that the Minister of Defence made in the introductory words. I do not want to touch his conscience, but it can be said that this resolution is probably the only objective: to increase the coalition potential of the political movement YES 2011. None of the government parties, including the senators, had the signature of the DCA contract in their electoral programme, so they had no legitimacy. If they want to make such a change, they must draw up a binding referendum with which the government combines its existence. Or, even better, to dissolve the House and make new elections, where the five-police will apply fairly to these changes, and the citizen in the elections will decide freely and democratically what he wishes his representatives in Parliament to do, whether they should or should not agree to the stay of United States troops in our territory. I took the hard work of studying a similar contract that was signed in 2008 in connection with Prime Minister Topolánek's efforts to place the radar and missile base of the United States on our territory. This contract is very similar to today's DCA. In 2008, however, this treaty was not ratified because people realized that the treaty meant the loss of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, and mainly because the missile base was located in the immediate vicinity of Prague. By the way, the agreement with the United States in 2008 on radar and missile bases was one of the causes of the end of Topolánkův's government. In fact, the current DCA agreement is largely copying the 2008 agreement, but it goes much further because it is already destroying the remnants of our country's sovereignty. The war in Ukraine has shown that defending our country is a matter of involvement of the entire society. This is to remind people from Czech Republic who fought against the location of the United States radar in Brdech in 2008. It is incomprehensible that these people today are silent. By the way, where are the demonstrations and their organizers at the time? Prime Minister Fiala said we were at war. Ministers Černochová, Lipavský drumming for the attack on Russia day and night. We train Ukrainian soldiers on our territory, send more and more weapons supplies to Ukraine. Chief of Staff Řehka's talking about mobilization. We have a former NATO commander at the castle. NATO, Washington, and not the Czech Parliament, will decide whether the Czech Republic will go to war, as the Minister of Defence has repeatedly been falsely emphasized. Thanks to the vastness of the treaty, it is necessary to open the question of whether the constitutional authority of the government is too wide in the case of certain transits and transits and residences of foreign troops in our territory. It is of a different political importance to fly through military diplomacy or transport of soldiers on the exercise on the one hand and on the other hand to fly through or through combat action, even if under international law permission of passage and transit of foreign army does not mean in this case the participation of the authorising state as war parties. The permit for combat action therefore bears the risk of counteraction in the latter case and can actually lead to the involvement of our state in war without Parliament agreeing to such action, which otherwise declares war. For example, Belarus has agreed to the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war to pass through and pass through for the Russian army for the attack on Ukraine. The result is the current debate in the European Parliament on issuing a warrant for Lukašenko arrest for charges of kidnapping Ukrainian children, for which there is no relevant evidence. Fighting in Ukraine can continue to escalate without the use of nuclear weapons. Unaccountable war enthusiasts from Prague should not forget that Russia has nearly 6,000 nuclear charges. That doesn't compensate for any mobilisation, even within the entire North Atlantic Alliance. We must realise the fundamental fact that in the modern war, the Czech Republic would not represent a distant rear for Russian weapons, as I once learned at the military department as an officer, that there would be occipital security. Indeed, the Czech Republic would actually represent a battlefield, in the fights involved in a deeper front. In connection with the DCA agreement, I would now make a few more comments, which I have only now realized. In 2015, I considered why the management of YES and ODS in the Moravian-Silesian Region made such a mistake and had almost all the flights to Katovice, Brno and Vienna left the International Mošnov Airport, while the Region invested hundreds of millions in railway connections to Mošnov Airport at the same time. Only a few local journalists criticized the construction of the line at the time. Otherwise, there was no mention of them at all. The implementation of the railway connection to the airport Leoš Janáček Ostrava enabled the construction of about 3 kilometers long railway section leading from Studénka to the new stop Mošnov Ostrava Airport. It was the first new railway line built after about 50 years in the Czech Republic and the cost of its implementation reached CZK 600 million. It was co-financed with the Moravian-Silesian Region and the Operational Programme Transport. The railway station with the airport check-in hall connects the tunnel corridor. The operation of this line started on 13 April 2015. Unfortunately, to this day, it is virtually without passengers. We received an explanation of this seemingly illogical waste of money before the regional elections in 2020, by the statement of Vice-President of the ODS Vondra and Governor Vondrák for YES 2011. The people in the Moravian-Silesian Region were shaken by their declaration of establishing a military base at Mošnov airport. This statement was on camera at the ODS convention and in the case of the governor in the local press. Since the Czech army is part of NATO, this means that Mošnov Airport will become a NATO base and thus the primary objective of a possible nuclear attack in the event of a war. This means that the leadership of the Moravian-Silesian Region has been planning the creation of a NATO military base since the 2004 regional elections, namely the United States, in the area of Mošnov Airport, which is the only one in the Czech Republic outside Ruzyna, which is capable of receiving the largest military aircraft. [[16.00 hours]] The winning central-right ODS coalition, KDU-ČSL, was already in 2004, when the ODS led by Chetman Tošenovský reached 38 percent in the regional elections, in 2004. Pavol Lukša, KDU-ČSL, was Deputy Head of Transport. Furthermore, the left-wing coalition ČSSD and KSČ ruled in the next elections in 2008 and 2012 (?). The construction of the railway was carried out under the leadership of the left-wing coalition ČSSD plus KSČ, which was formed after the regional elections 2012. Therefore, the management of the Moravian-Silesian Region in ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ČSSD and KSČ had to know about the intention of the base in Mošnov since 2004 in colours of ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, ČSSD and KSČ (?). I've intersected the Prime Minister myself several times, and he's here on a microphone - I'm sick of it, but I have to say it - repeatedly lied that there's no military base in Mosnov. And now we see that in the agreement on so-called social defense with the US, DCA, Mošnov Airport is explicitly mentioned as a planned logistics center for US troops. The Logistic Center is a modern synonym of a military base, and we're not fooling ourselves. Prime Minister Fiala lied about my interpelration probably because the government was afraid that they might be against their plan again to demonstrate against the radar in Brd, when the United States government itself withdrew from such a contract. Moreover, it was also known that the similar treaty sparked major disputes in Slovakia, where they already have an agreement with the United States on defence cooperation. In the Slovak Parliament, Members of the National Council of the Slovak Republic almost fought in its deliberations. In March 1999, President Havel signed NATO accession papers at Prague Castle, but in particular the Washington Treaty as the founding document of the North Atlantic Alliance, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, as the formal name of NATO sounds. At the same time, the accession of the Czech Republic to the 1995 Armed Forces Statute agreement was signed, so-called SOFA, which always allows military units of signatory states to enter its territory after the appropriate consent of the Czech Republic. The text of the contract is traceable as communication No. 297/1996 Coll., Communication from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This means that, without the country's prior consent, the entry into its territory of another State's forces within NATO is not possible under this Treaty. And that is the main reason for establishing bilateral treaties between the United States Army and other NATO states, because that means a clear waiver of the sovereignty of the respective state, which they would not actually get away with in any state. Symbolically, on 25 February, the Czech Government adopted Resolution 134 at its meeting, later declassified resolution 155 of 2 March, which states that the Government approves the residence of forces and means of armed forces of the States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the territory of the Czech Republic in accordance with the activated preliminary NATO defence plans for a period of 60 days from the date of deployment of a total number of 200 persons. The government has approved a temporary stay of NATO troops in our territory and has committed itself to the fact that this will apply from Czech sources. And let us add, she did it secretly, behind the back of the citizens, without their mandate. He will have a power vote in Parliament, just as he did the unconstitutional pandemic law last year. It is absolutely overwhelming that our country does not allow citizens to comment on such serious issues in any way in the referendum. It is necessary to do everything necessary to end the fighting in Ukraine and to limit as much as possible the possibility of uninformed and uniformed supporters of the war in the Czech Republic. Our country should not make useful idiots to the United States and Czech soldiers should protect Czech borders and not die in the senseless wars of America. We consider the presence of NATO troops at the Russian borders to be a source of our deadly threat, not an increase in our security. Our country must not make a living shield, be a living target, and become a war victim for the interests of our colonialists. It's the same as 1968. I've been there. This was also a temporary contract for troops to stay on our territory and lasted for 30 years. It's exactly the same, only then did the sovět protect us from the Američan, and today the Američan will protect us from the Rus. What do you think Mr. Kocáb has to say about that? The public should ask, who has given the government a mandate to sign a ten-year unwitting contract on the possible residence of foreign troops in our territory? This is the view of the SPD and most citizens of our country. The look of a five-wheeler is different. They take it that we have finally arrived, we too will be occupied by the United States troops as many other states around the world. Since the coup 1989, it has been said that truth and love will prevail over lies and hatred. Sadly, they didn't win. The lie in our society is ubiquitous and hatred divides society to shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Your performance brought up one point of fact. This is what Mr Vladimír Balaš signed up for. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to the contributions and I am not surprised. I am an international lawyer and I just want to say that what is in this treaty is exactly what international law has recognised as a rule for more than 200 years since the par in parem rule non habet empire, i.e. equal over equal power, has confirmed the judge of the Supreme Court of the United States chief justice marshall in the Schooner exchange versus McFaddon. [[Nesroz.]] This was confirmed by the English courts, Belgian, French, Italian and others. So that the U.S. armed forces are excluded from the jurisdiction of a territorial sovereign anywhere, they come out of international law, and it's not a discovery. So from this point of view, this is standard procedure, and I completely reject the claim that there would be some occupation of the Czech Republic in the case of US troops staying here. Plus, I have one more comment on the report from the Constitution of State and Law. I don't know who processed it. I suppose that opinion would come out more in favor of the contract, but it's just one legal opinion, not an institution, maybe just one who's processing it. I've been dealing with that question since I was a graduate student. The subject of my dissertation was the jurisdictional immunity of the state and its property, so I'm really quite informed in this respect, and I don't think there's any point in confusing anyone with the untruths that my previous speakers are spreading here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. Mr Salvetr has made another point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I just had a brief reaction to what was said here. I do not want to go back to those last sentences in Mr Force's speech, by your means, but it was clear here that this government coalition does not have a mandate for any such treaty or agreements. I don't think that's true for one simple reason. In the entire election campaign, the coalition in particular, together, has clearly claimed pro-Western orientation and firm anchoring in structures not only of the European Union but also of NATO. And the fact that the situation in Europe has changed dramatically over the last year and a half is clear and I understand this treaty prepared by the government as a clear response to what is happening now in the world. And what I want to completely reject is that the war hunters from Prague or General Řehka are haunting someone here. After all, you, Mr President, have said, through Madam President, that you are a graduate of military school, and I think we both know that the words of the levy, mobilisation and similar to them have been an entirely normal part of our lives. It's not like it's haunted. This is a description of what normally belongs to life primarily to the male part of the population. And just because we forgot about them in the good constellation doesn't mean that they don't exist and that they can't relate to today's generations. I certainly add that I am a great supporter of the professional army, because I remember well how the mandatory service was and how combatable that army was. At least as far as the trucks were concerned. [[Time!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping time. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří horák will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u24	Thank you. You know, I didn't have the '68 of course, but I know there was a Soviet army in our town in the '68. They got there, they drove about three streets, they shot machine guns into their homes, they were in the square, they shot up all the houses of the machine guns, and they shot a lady who was just over her baby's crib. And now you're saying that the signature of the technical agreement that regulates the stay of soldiers who, of course, practice here every year is the same thing. Seriously? Isn't that the devaluation of the suffering of those people who died here in '68 killed by Soviet soldiers? So really these words-- are they the same thing? You can't be serious. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u25	And now we will go back to the debate where Mr Karel Sládeček is registered. Mr. Milan Brázdil will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to comment on the signed Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States on cooperation in the field of defence. The Czech Republic, I have said it here, has been a member of NATO since 1999 and we have not needed a similar contract for 24 years. Citizens of the Czech Republic have a negative experience of foreign troops staying on our territory. A large part of them do not want this treaty, but the government of the five-calice does not care at all. The current government only provokes, signs some contracts, destroys monuments or insults world diplomats. Please note that the world order will never be created by the Minister of Bachelor Lipavský, the world order is made up of true world statesmen. All you do is spend billions of dollars stealing from retired people, stealing from working people, and prolonging the war. Recently I read that buying 25 F-35 fighters will cost the Czech Republic $5.62 billion, while the Izraelec bought the same number, i.e. 25 fighters, for $3 billion. This information was published on its website by Reuters on 2 July this year. In doing so, Israel does not supply any weapons to Ukraine. I think Secretary Černochová is just following orders. She doesn't care how much it's gonna cost to buy American fighters, because all of us taxpayers, our kids, our grandchildren, we're gonna pay for it. While Izraelec are real businessmen and negotiated the same goods for almost half the price. All capable government, with this treaty, you expose the Czech Republic to a dangerous war game. And such a serious issue should be decided by all citizens in a national referendum. I will vote against the adoption of this Treaty. And just to clarify - American tourists with American roller coasters are, of course, welcome in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. The next party to the debate is Mr Brázdil, Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u28	Hello, colleagues, thank you for the floor, good afternoon. It has been said many times that only SPD members will oppose it. I mean, even MEPs for YES will be delayed by some. Why am I performing here now? It's a little introduction. After graduating from high school, I joined military medicine in Hradec Králové, Charles University, and then after the certificate at Hradc in Olomouc to paratroopers. At that time it was 82, 80, the unit was called the 22nd airborne, today it's six hundred and one. Exactly where we have today's president Petr Pavel, right where we have the Engesh, that is, Řehka. Yes, I served there, I jumped there, I enjoyed it. But that's where we were when democracy was born in this state. The helicopters were ready, we were packed. And you know what we were prepared for? That we would go defend Czechoslovakia and the border with the Soviet Union. We were worried about this new-born democracy that it wouldn't have to happen here. It didn't happen, we weren't picked up, and thank God no one was dying. But I--why am I saying this? Perhaps by this introduction, no one can tell me that I am someone who would be rooting for Russia. I've never been to Russia, I've never been to Ukraine and I'm neither pro-Ukrainian nor anti-Ukrainian. I'm not, really, believe me, no. But I feel one question from this treaty, which is why I don't know how to vote. And if anyone would help me, an expert, I don't mean a politician, I don't mean a minister, someone - an expert, here Mr., sorry, Mr. Former Minister, a lawyer, said he's familiar with the issue, but - with paper, there's nothing to save or raise - listen - or increase the security of the Czech Republic! [[Turns to the right]] If we accept the fact that no one will be here. On this - this is what has been reported here, Madam Secretary, and in the accompanying resolution. Nobody's gonna be here. But we don't even have to say if they're bases or God knows what. There's just no one here. There won't be any foreign armies here, and that's good. And people hear it now - it won't. Yeah, but it's just the paper. He's actually, he's gonna be a lot of them, it's gonna be fat, probably there - he says it's mistranslated or something, says Radek Vondráček. Well, never mind, but it'll be paper. And now I ask you, colleagues, how do you explain to people how this paper will increase the safety of our Czech Republic when there are other allies next to us? They're closer than America. So if somebody explained this to me, I wouldn't have a problem telling you, okay, it's okay, it's okay, but... That means if we are, or the states have a treaty with America, why don't we have it with the Polák, with other NATO members? Like it doesn't matter, they make it better? But they'll never be here, it's just a declaration, it's just an agreement about something, but they'll never be here, but we'll have more security - this paper. So it's like NATO shut us down wrong? And that's the only way to put it to the higher level when we'll be protected? I don't think so. But when someone tells me that it's... it's not gonna be like that, but then they break what was said here that those bases or some logistics stuff and so on, and that's what people are afraid of with that experience. So once again, let me sum it up. I'm not pro-Russian. I defended this republic when democracy was born here, with a parachute on my back, and I was afraid it wouldn't happen. And all I'm worried about is the way it was, for ever and ever before, so it wouldn't be wrong now. I hope I didn't say anything wrong. I hope I didn't offend anyone. But definitely an expert, someone who could do it here, as an expert, an army man who -- a strategist who would somehow tell us. He's probably not here. It'd be nice, but a little late. The government was criticized, you were supposed to be communicating. Maybe these people wouldn't be in the square right now, maybe they would know... Is there really no one here, no bases, no soldiers, no violations or other legal standards for them and for us? This, if explained, is a symbol. That's what we often hear here, sending signals and symbols. All right, well, paper can handle anything. But as soon as it's not, it's gonna be a mess for me. So, for now, I'm ready to stick around. Don't blame me. And yet I love this republic, I love my family and the people in our country, and I would like to keep it this safe. Well, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. A factual comment was made by Minister Černochová and Mr Balaš. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u30	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I wanted to respond to Mr Sládeček's colleague. He mentioned Israel and their acquisition of aircraft F-35. Here I would like to tell him that the fundamental difference is that while the Czech Republic would acquire a completely new ability, not only aircraft, but, for example, training, ammunition, pilot equipment and so on, Israel is simply, please, buying machines into an already established system. Moreover, according to our information - the configuration of these Israeli machines is fundamentally different from the aircraft that the Czech Republic would hypothetically like to purchase. It is therefore necessary to take into account the fact that Israel and the United States of America have a specific link, which includes both special security guarantees and massive financial support, by the way, up to 3.8 billion US dollars a year. Likewise, military supplies between Israel and the United States are under conditions that will never be known throughout the wide range. By the way, Mr Vice-President, through the Vice-President, the same protection regime has just been promised to protect relations as between Israel and the United States, the President of the United States of America, Biden, also promised Ukraine at the Vilnius Summit. So here it is 100% true that the Czech and Israeli purchases of aircraft cannot be compared at a price.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for keeping time. Mr Balaš will now take action, Mr Kubíček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to say to Mr Brázdil that if he considers a contractual obligation a piece of paper, I would not want to conclude a contract with him. Because, in international law as in national law, the principle of pacta sunt servanda applies, i.e. that contracts are to be respected. And that is what the entire contractual system of both national and international is all about. And as far as international law and this particular treaty are concerned, this is indeed a technical treaty that only facilitates the possibility in emergency situations of operations of US troops in the Czech Republic if we really need it. But it doesn't mean there's going to be an occupation. It doesn't mean there'll be U.S. military bases here either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Roman Kubíček is the last Member so far. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll be very brief. For my colleague Milan Brázdil, by your means, I will set such a beautiful example. When the crisis was in Ukraine and the Slovák signed a contract, they asked the American party directly for the launch of the Patriot Battery and the Sentinel radar system and got it directly through the contract within three days. If it were through a state like Germany, they might have it, they could provide it, but they need the approval of the American party to do it. And the delay is quite long. So for this reason, I consider it significant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. With a factual remark before Mr Zlínský gets the floor, Mr Brázdil came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u36	Yes, thank you. This has logic, this has an explanation, I accept it, such an argument. But, Mr Balaš, through the President, I did not say that this is a piece of paper, that it is not to be observed. But paper can't be defended, paper is... I think America's distance from the neighbors - we're closer here, so I'm sure they'd probably be here before anyone else. I'm sorry I didn't have that kind of awareness of rights, but I was in the army. And definitely distance plays a role in any assault, so it feels like... That's why I wanted some explanation, like this is supposed to protect us, Roman Kubíček explained to me, we'd get it faster. Okay. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. Mr Vladimír Zlínský, who has been duly applied for, will now appear. Please, you have the floor. Mr Vích will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u38	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also make a military coming out here as Mr. Mr. Brázdil. So I studied civilian - not military, but civilian medicine, but I was lucky to get into the elite anti-missile regiment in Žatek after college, and to my great joy I spent 7 months in the field, of which a month in sharp shootings in Ashuluk, which is about 300 km from Buzuluk in the desert near the Caspian Sea. So I was very happy. That was a really great experience for me. So I'd say this is how I'm trained. And to top it all off, in 1991, a new regime actually called me for military training and trained me as an anti-radication expert, as a doctor. So this may already explain why I am interested in this issue and why I will continue with the debate that I had here with the Minister at the first reading of this law. So I'm going to look at it with some concern that there's no way in hell there's any way in our territory that nuclear weapons could be deployed here. So with all my long performances, I'm going to point to the long one, it's going to be pulling like a red thread of this fear. And you who know how I perform, I don't know the political diction, I admit it's not my strong suit. I'm trained as a doctor to stick to facts and use facts. So I'm sorry, I'm gonna be here to say specific things, and I'm gonna quote the secretary here, and I'm gonna quote the other MPs, and I'm gonna quote all sorts of contracts here, so maybe it's not gonna be funny. Anyway, I'd be happy to have some of you stay here and, if necessary, respond to my speech, especially Madam Secretary. Finally, I will have a few questions about both the Minister and the ANO representative on some of the things that I consider important. I will first look at the DCA agreement in terms of whether it could, therefore, facilitate the deployment of nuclear weapons on our territory. I'm not saying they're gonna be stationed here, it's just a sort of evaluation of the contract. It introduces facilities and objects with exclusive use of the United States Army with limited access to the Czech authorities, this treaty. The US Armed Forces and the facilities or parts thereof intended for the storage of such material shall be used exclusively by the United States Armed Forces. The armed forces of the United States of America will have exclusive control over access, use and handling of this located material. Means of transport operated by the armed forces of the United States of America can enter freely, move to the territory of the Czech Republic without possible control by the Czech authorities. It will not be possible to board or inspect such vehicles without the consent of the United States. Another thing that is important is the possibility in the agreed facilities and premises to carry out construction activities. Well, I'm gonna have to quote the Minister now. Well, I don't mean it pejoratively at all, I appreciate her answering my questions here, so it's actually a reaction to my performance. And she said here that the Czech Republic is bound by a non-proliferation treaty. She also said that today, in order for you to have that information, Američan have nuclear weapons in dozens of pieces in Belgium, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Turkey. But this is part of an alliance concept called nuclear sharing. Guns are placed with consent - I repeat with the consent of the recipient states, so we really do not need to worry about this here either you or colleagues from the SPD and especially citizens of the Czech Republic. So I'll take a closer look at this, and then I'll ask the secretary about the subject. [[16.30 hours]] First, let's look at nuclear sharing, or nuclear sharing. It's all from freely accessible sources, I point out. This nuclear sharing is the concept of NATO's nuclear deterrent policy, which allows Member States without their own nuclear weapons to participate in the possible use of NATO's nuclear weapons. In particular, it provides that the armed forces of these countries will be involved in the transport of nuclear weapons to the place of their explosion in the event of their use. In the framework of nuclear arms sharing, the participating countries shall, inter alia, maintain the technical equipment, in particular dual-use aircraft, necessary for the use of nuclear weapons and store nuclear weapons on their territory. So far, it is known that Belgium, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Turkey are hosting American weapons as part of NATO's nuclear arms-sharing policy. Since 2021, 100 to 200 tactical B61 nuclear bombs are expected to be placed in Europe under the Nuclear Weapons Sharing Agreement. Guns are stored in a safe deposit box in hardened shelters for aircraft. The vehicles used are bombers F-16 and Panavia Tornado. According to all available information, the aircraft stealth technology F-35 will also be able to do so, which we will be buying in the foreseeable future the circus for 120 billion in the number of 24 pieces. The B61 nuclear bomb is a thermonuclear weapon, a hydrogen bomb. The cougar has a widely adjustable force from 0.3 to 340 kilotons. For the record, the nuclear bomb that fell on Hiroshima had 15 kilotons and killed 70,000 people and injured 70,000 others. Work is currently underway on the development of a new weapon. It is a conceptual weapon from the 1960s, but it adds some package that facilitates the delivery of this bomb, it becomes a slippery bomb that allows the launch or release of the weapon at a greater distance from the target and guidance using a GPS satellite system with the delivery of accuracy of one meter. After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the types of nuclear weapons shared within NATO were reduced to tactical nuclear bombs, which I was talking about, distributed by aircraft of double designation - already mentioned Tornado, F-16 and most recently F-35. On the German base Büchel is supposedly stored 20 pum B61 for delivery by German bombers Tornado. By 2024 German planes Tornado are to be eliminated. In 2022, Germany announced that it would buy 35 F-35 aircraft to replace Tornado aircraft in the role of nuclear weapons sharing. In 2022, after the start of the conflict in Ukraine, reports appeared on Poland's possible inclusion in the NATO nuclear-sharing programme. The deployment of nuclear weapons on the territory of the Czech Republic is hindered by an international agreement, the founding act of Russia - NATO. According to NATO's agreement, it will not deploy nuclear weapons in the territory of new members and will not build nuclear weapons storage there. On 2 June 2023, the President of the Czech Chamber of Deputies Markéta Pekarová At the meetings of the heads of parliaments of NATO countries in Vilnius, Adamová voted for the abolition of the Founding Act of Russia - NATO. The Czech Republic did not join the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons of 2017 with the fact that joining the agreement would be contrary to the commitments of the Czech Republic in NATO. The truth is that many other countries have not joined it. The critics believe that by sharing nuclear weapons, NATO violates Articles 1 and 2 of the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which prohibit the transfer and acceptance of direct or indirect control over nuclear weapons. And now I'm going to quote that Article 1 and 2. Article 1: Each Party possessing nuclear weapons shall undertake not to transfer, directly or indirectly, nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices or control over such weapons or nuclear explosive devices directly or indirectly to anyone, nor to encourage, encourage or encourage, in any other way, any State not owning nuclear weapons to produce or acquire nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices or to obtain control over such weapons or explosive devices. The end of Article 1. Article 2: Each Party not having nuclear weapons undertakes not to accept, directly or indirectly, nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices or control over such weapons or explosive devices, to not produce nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, nor to obtain them in any other way, nor to seek and receive any assistance in the manufacture of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. The United States insists that their forces control weapons and that no transfer of nuclear bombs or control over them is intended. However, pilots and other employees of non-nuclear NATO countries are practicing the handling and delivery of US nuclear bombs, and their warplanes have been adapted to the delivery of US nuclear bombs, which includes the transfer of some technical information on nuclear weapons. It creates one dangerous precedent. The NATO nuclear-weapon-sharing programme could now be used as an excuse by other countries that own nuclear weapons, such as China, Pakistan or another state, to create a similar arrangement. This means, let us imagine that China would offer such an arrangement to its friendly states, or if Pakistan, who is also the owner of a nuclear weapon, had done nuclear arms sharing with another Muslim country, such as Saudi Arabia or Iran. So my question is whether the Secretary of Defense, by extension the government, would join Poland's demand to participate in nuclear sharing, so that American nuclear weapons can also be placed on our territory in the agreed facilities mentioned in the DCA Agreement. If not, then if this option is considered in the future and if the US party has raised this demand for our government. Furthermore, I ask the responsible ANO representative on the same question, would they therefore support the deployment of nuclear weapons in our territory in the context of nuclear sharing in the current situation or in the future and on what assumptions, or this and priori reject? Lately, we've been seeing such a mess - nesvar fabulace and contraversity. They say no, they won't be here unless Parliament approves it in case of a threat. There will be no quotas, we now have solidarity, illegal and inadaptable, and we will not have problem migrants here, we have Ukrajinec, and then we will somehow bribe it. We move the problem to the future and thus we comfort the public to get used to the problem, accept it, and make opponents paranoia and disinformers. The mainstream mass media, instead of making this senseless - meaningless - argument torn apart from my point of view, are involved in ostracizing opponents. From my point of view, this is one of the methods of media manipulation, or delay strategy. It is easier to convince the public that unpopular steps will take place in some vaguely defined future and become realistic under conditions that are highly unlikely. Then, because the public always tends to naively expect things to improve somehow, change for the better, and that the desired victims can be avoided, it will accept and get used to this idea with a certain resignation when the time comes. [[16.40 hours]] Now here I will mention the appearance of Mr Horák, who said here at first reading: For two days there is information that soldiers will be stationed here, there will be bases. It's not true. So the misinformation, that's where they come from. The more trusting and sensitive people respond to them, and that is what they fear. It has been said repeatedly that there will be no foreign soldiers and no bases. The Minister said: The agreement does not give the armed forces of the United States of America the right to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic. Their stay must always be approved by the Government or Parliament of the Czech Republic in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution. If the U.S. Armed Forces are approved in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution, the legal status of the U.S. soldiers will then be governed by the agreement. From my point of view, the agreement does not give US armed forces the right to reside on our territory at present, but it creates the prerequisites for them to reside here and operate in the nearer or further future, namely that US troops can be deployed in our territory in the agreed facilities of vulgo military bases and can de facto transport and store any military material, including nuclear facilities. In the context of nuclear sharing, of course, on the basis of a contract that we would sign. The approval of the deployment of US troops by our Parliament, with the current distribution of forces, would be a mere formality. The five-calice has a comfortable majority and can vote to stay the U.S. Army in our territory whenever it considers it appropriate that we are already sufficiently threatened. Because it's the core of a poodle that makes everything relevant. I cannot imagine that representatives of the US Army will not take any preparatory actions and activities here before our government and Parliament decide on the approval of US troops' residence on our territory. If we accept the definition of a military base this way - I was looking on the Internet for what it would be, and I liked this one the most: "it is an enclosed and constantly guarded complex secured against the penetration of enemy living forces and techniques where fighting means are concentrated, it also provides social and technical facilities for the crew" - then what will be in Mošnov and other agreed facilities when the American army moves there if not military base? In conclusion, I would like to recall some information about the time I served for General Václavík. I am not ashamed of the presentation of this information, because repetition is the mother of wisdom and it is true that playing with matches at a stack of dry straw is not the best idea. If the mainstream mass media and responsible experts don't do it, I feel obliged to do it myself. Since the discovery and development of the neutron weapon, we have no further guaranteed information on the development of another type of nuclear weapon that would allow a limited nuclear war to be waged without long-term and massive contamination of the affected territory. The latest known type of nuclear weapon is the so-called neutron bomb whose history dates back to the 1960s and 1970s. It's a modified thermonuclear bomb, which means a hydrogen bomb with a higher radiation effect designed to be used in cities or armored enemy technology. In addition to the presence of California, neutron yields are further increased by introducing special ammunition packaging containing Beryllium, boron or bismuth. This results in up to 50 percent of the energy of the explosion being released in the form of piercing radiation, where the proportion of neutron radiation exceeds the proportion of gamma electromagnetic radiation having ten times lower relative biological efficiency. This means that neutrons act on living organisms, on cells ten times more devastating than intense gamma radiation. Moreover, neutrons can cause permanent changes in semiconductor characteristics and their destruction, which means that all electronics will be destroyed. Other destructive parameters of the nuclear explosion of neutron ammunition are suppressed, but cannot be neglected. Fast neutrons pass through smooth, dense material, armored and masonry. You can construct neutron weapons small caliber, artillery grenades. Reportedly, all U.S. neutron weapons have been dismantled. Well, at least I found this data on the Internet. To tell you the truth, I don't really believe that powers capable of producing nuclear weapons would voluntarily give up something so effective, but on the other hand, so diabolical. Tendence is therefore the use of weapons that destroy the enemy's living power and preserve infrastructure without long-term contamination. It's the evilness of the weapon. And now let's see what fast neutrons will do to the living force. It causes radiation sickness. Those you know and are trained to do this, you know that there are two types of radiation sickness, both acute and chronic. The acute is caused by the energy of the neutrons being absorbed in the macromolecules and in the water and by the damage to the macromolecules, which means protein, nucleic acids and various combinations of them, and it either dies, leading to the immediate death of the severely affected ones, or partial damage, and that leads to mitosis disorder, which means cell division, and it breaks down rapidly dividing tissue. You may already have an idea of what the rapidly dividing tissue is. For one thing, they are cells that are formed in the bone marrow, which means blood formation, and they are epithelials that embed the airways and digestives. Of course, the rapid multiplying epithelial is actually where sperm is formed. So these tissues are damaged. In the first stage, the affected one vomits, he's sick, and then with a certain latency he starts bleeding, it's like I'd say a radiation-induced Ebola, and the person bleeds out of the body openings, or he dies of a pussy infection or any infection because he has a lack of white blood cells because the radiation destroys his white blood cells. So that's the emergency. And now for those who survive. They didn't win because they're threatened by the chronic effects of the piercing radiation. You may already have an idea of what this leads to, because the DNA damage to those nucleic acids is caused by mutations and these mutations are caused by somatic cells, which means in the stomach, in the intestines, in the bone marrow, in women in the breasts, by malignant diseases. In addition, sterility occurs in both women and men. There are abortions. And the worst thing in my mind is that germ cells are damaged, which means sperm and eggs, and those mutations are transmitted to the next generation. Well, I'm telling you this for the reason that you can revive this information and think about it so that we never allow nuclear warfare to occur and nuclear weapons to be deployed in our territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Minister Černochová and Mr Balaš will prepare himself. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I will answer my colleague about the Non-proliferation Treaty. The professor of international public law Balaš will speak. I'll talk about the sharing, as we discussed with our colleague here last time. The sharing of American weapons in NATO is governed by decades-old agreements between the United States, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, Germany, Turkey. The United States is refusing anything to change about it. Yes, you mentioned Poland. The Polák would like them very much, but the United States has not yet agreed to Poland's request and it is not expected that they would agree to it in the future. Mainly from the point of view of the Czech Republic, such a possibility is completely zero, because there is no military reason. Not far from us are several American bases on German territory, where, of course, Američan have no problems. It places nuclear weapons somewhere, it's really not like transporting a box of rolls. All of this means billions of dollars costs, and the United States certainly has no reason to do such a thing when a few hundred miles away from us in Germany may already be something like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Balaš's turn to prepare Mr Hofmann, all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Madam President. I, by your means, would like to reassure Mr Zlínský. Since 1974, the Czech Republic has been bound by the 1968 Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty. And the second article of this Treaty states that each non-nuclear-weapon Contracting Party undertakes not to accept directly or indirectly from any nuclear weapon or other nuclear explosive devices or control over such weapons or explosive devices, and so on. I mean, the only nuclear hazard we had here - the lecture was interesting, but I think it was completely off topic, and quite like a lawyer, if you weren't on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I'd call it spreading an alarm report. Still, I was happy to hear it. Only the only skendrian who caused a nuclear radiation problem here was the explosion of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in the Soviet Union. And maybe the Rus are planning the same thing in Zaporozhye. And otherwise, I wouldn't be so scared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u43	I also thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Hofmann's turn to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Hello. I'll just join my colleagues, with the fact that, as you've heard, nuclear weapons in our territory can't be, nor is there any interest in them being here. But the SPD movement here claims to represent, say, most of those residents who are therefore afraid of those allied nuclear weapons in our territory. I have seen a poll on the opposition leader's website, where 15,000 respondents have been addressed, which is far more than there is to be polling, with the question of whether they would be in favour of placing allied nuclear weapons in our territory. Fifty-eight percent said yes. The rest either don't know or they don't agree with them. So most people here would want these guns. Unfortunately, this treaty does not give any possibility to place these weapons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, too, for keeping time. And we are going back to the general debate. Before I give the floor to Mr Vích, I will add two apologies. Mr Špičák apologizes from 17 o'clock for family reasons and Minister Lipavský from 16.15 for work reasons. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u46	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I'll take this a little differently than my previous speaker. I said the essential thing here at first reading, and I said it in committee, so I will limit myself to pointing out some points, and then I would summarize it in some way. The agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence, i.e. the so-called DCA, has a standard text, as the US party offers it to the other 24 NATO Member States, a standard disadvantage for the recipient State, in our case for the Czech Republic. To put it simply, the main rights are on the side of the U.S. Armed Forces, a civilian file without further definition, their family members, the contractual partners to which the U.S. military command will issue the relevant documents. Then they get simplified entry into the territory of the Czech Republic. They will basically be removed from the jurisdiction of our state, except for the most serious exceptions under criminal law. This agreement is nothing the Czech Republic needs to defend itself. Certainly not all Member States have a similar agreement with the US; out of the 31 NATO countries, 24 countries have such an agreement, i.e. seven countries can do without it so far. However, we already have legislation that I believe is sufficient, and this is a closed NATO SOFA, according to which the necessary stay of NATO soldiers, including US soldiers in our territory, for example during military exercises and so on. Then I ask, what is NATO for? And if you're referring to the NATO SOFA treaty that it's outdated, well, I guess it needs to be adjusted, but there's no political will to do that. Your own preamble is embarrassing. It says, among other things, that the purpose of this Treaty is to increase the efforts of the parties to promote peace and security in areas of common interest and benefit and to participate in joint defence efforts, confirming that the presence of US armed forces contributes to strengthening the security and stability of the Czech Republic in the region. I would like to argue here that the interests of the Czech Republic are in common with the interests of the United States of America and that the presence of US armed forces in our territory contributes to strengthening stability and security in the region. It is not a cooperation agreement, but a treaty on the future military presence of the United States in the Czech Republic, which allows the armed forces of the United States to use military premises and buildings, at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov, this case logistics center. They will also be able to use military training spaces and use barracks in Vyškov, Rančířov, Stará Boleslav. In all these locations, the United States can build its own buildings, including food stores, open catering facilities, banking services, social and educational centres and so on. In case of approval of the contract, they will be able to move freely in the Czech Republic, operate the armed forces of the United States, including family members. The references of government politicians that this agreement doesn't really change anything are not true. It introduces a free mode of arrivals, departures, import of any movable items and storage of weapons and ammunition into these premises, without the possibility of checks by the Czech Republic. De facto it will be a similar principle as applied to the territory of the embassy. Moreover, the agreement is concluded for 10 years when it cannot be terminated. In Slovakia, this treaty was under fire with criticism and, after major protests, an interpretive clause was finally adopted, which states, among other things, that the treaty is not a decision to create military bases on their territory or on the presence of American soldiers. We don't count on an interpreter like that. It is also necessary to perceive this agreement in the context of the present amendment to Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Art. 43 constitutions that concern the defense of our state. It's a novel from a five-calice pen. The SPD movement has filed a motion for rejection in the House and is now suspended in the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the House. The agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in the field of defence is very similar to the agreement that the Slovak Republic has concluded, the differences are very few, most in Art. 15, but it doesn't change much. Therefore, the previous analyses are also applicable, because the Czech Treaty is practically a very copycat of the Slovak Treaty. What is very different is the number of agreed facilities and space - 11, where the armed forces of the USA are to operate in the Czech Republic. There are only two such places mentioned against this in the Slovak agreement - Malacky-Kitchen and Sliač, where the armed US has already become a reality in practice, and we see that there are already security problems, see the assault with a knife, explained by the Slovak side, as it was nothing. So let me get this straight. The DCA Agreement is not advantageous for us. It is only a framework, it is not reciprocal, we are losing sovereignty with it, and a national referendum should be drawn up to do so. There was no general debate on this on the part of the five-wheelers. Communication with the public, where the agreement and its individual parts would be clarified, was not conducted at all. Its discussions in the Committee on Petitions cannot be counted as clarification to the general public. The five-calice even refused to discuss and assess the agreement in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. [[17,00 hours]] This means to me that the government is not sure that constitutional law will be violated and that it is all in accordance with our and international law. What if, by chance, the DCA Agreement were parked in the Constitutional Legal Committee and waited for an assessment? You call the analysis of lawyers, apart from minor exceptions, political proclamation and not legal analysis as such. Of course, it is a fundamental thing and not a trivial thing, as some Members here have expressed themselves on this agreement, because if we allow someone in 11 locations to build objects that we do not have access to for 10 years, we do not know what is being done there, and we do not know what is being stored there, and the objects have an embassy regime, so of course it is a fundamental restriction on the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. This government also rejected the so-called interpretation clause for this agreement, I have already talked about it, which basically meant in Slovakia that it is in no way the establishment of the base itself. The supplementary resolution that will be proposed here is not part of the agreement and does not fulfil the function of the interpretation clause. Furthermore, this agreement cannot be terminated for 10 years and cannot be legally challenged. The deal seems disadvantageous and unnecessary. I'm asking myself a rhetorical question, what happens if we don't have a DCA agreement? In my opinion, nothing will happen. So the MPs of the SPD will vote against this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Kettner's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. Everything has fallen here several times. I don't really like beating up empty straws. Agreement on cooperation in defence between the United States and the Czech Republic. I'm going to repeat some things that have been said in the press, and I dare say my point of view. It's supposed to strengthen collective defense. I mean, the collective defense is that there's gonna be a collective. We have a defence treaty with NATO, which means that security here is already guaranteed by the collective defense that, in the event of an attack by any NATO member state, other states will come to his aid. So no matter how I think about it, I don't know how the NATO Treaty between the two NATO Member States will strengthen us in terms of collective defence. As far as base base is concerned. What exactly is a base? Bases are some objects that an army uses for its activities. The contract says there will be objects that the U.S. military will use. But I keep hearing it's not gonna be a base. So it's probably some kind of virtual base? It's just such a senseless wordplay, and I don't understand why things aren't called real names. It is further said in the contract that certain parts of those buildings, those buildings and objects that the US military will use will be directly to the exclusive access and use of the United States armed forces. That for me is simply giving up a certain part of the territory for the benefit of another state. As I was against Soviet soldiers in our territory, for exactly the same reasons I am against the presence of any other armed forces. Yes, something else is simply an exercise under some international commitments, yes, but this contract is simply a completely unnecessary escalation of the situation for me. The last thing that is very delicate to me is the issue of possible prosecution of those members of the United States armed forces. It's gone down here, too. There are a lot of cases all over the world, and in vain, I tried to find a case where that American soldier was actually convicted in the state in whose territory he committed the crime. Most of the time, the soldier's always reassigned, always blowing up the lost and nice survivors, screw you. So the reminiscence with the past-- I really don't care if the soldier who's here has a red star or a white star. It's just unacceptable to me. I think that we should be sovereign, sovereign, state and all the treaties that are should be at least mutually equally advantageous and certainly not disadvantageous in our failure. So with me, it's just a matter of principle, I'll never be able to vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. It is now Mrs Lesenská's turn. I'll load two more apologies before it hits the counter. Mr Král apologizes from 5:30 p.m. for business reasons and Mr Wenzl Milan from 19:00 for health reasons. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u50	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues. Madam Secretary, on 23 May this year you signed the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence. The Treaty is one-sided in my opinion, in favour of the Czech Republic and its citizens. He's targeting the presence of American troops in our territory. But while the United States of America benefits from this cooperation, it is unclear to me what particular benefits we will have from this. Another important problem is, according to my limitations, the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The treaty states that U.S. troops can operate on our territory without our control and supervision. It means that they can come, place military equipment, even various kinds of weapons, without having the competent information and the ability to decide what is going on in our own territory. That means we're losing control of our own defenses and security. The third problem is the undemocratic process of adopting this agreement. None of the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies had this Treaty on the electoral agenda, nor was it part of the coalition agreement or the government's programming declaration. This means, in my view, that the decision on this agreement has been taken without the possibility of expressing our opinion through elections or through referendums. It is essential that such matters, which affect our country and citizens, are the subject of a democratic process and a broad public debate. Finally, it is important to stress that this agreement does not fulfil the principles of international peace and stability, at least in my opinion. Instead of contributing to strengthening cooperation in the field of defence and security, it raises concerns. We are members of NATO, so why this treaty? Why us, why on such short notice when other NATO members don't have it? And why, in this disadvantageous text, when countries that have already signed a treaty with the US have it much more balanced than us? In the light of these facts, I believe it is important that the agreement be re-considered and subjected to a thorough parliamentary and public debate. We must ensure that any agreements concerning our defence and security are consistent with our interests, values and democratic principles. The loss of sovereignty and the limitation of our control over our own territory and defence are serious matters that should not be underestimated. As a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I have committed myself to defending the interests of our country and citizens. I will try to ensure that this agreement is reviewed and that all the risks, concerns and democratic principles associated with its implementation are taken into account. It is our duty to ensure that decisions on our defence and security are taken with maximum transparency, public support and respect for democratic processes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. It is now Mr Černý's turn. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on this point, on the Government's proposal, House press number 462. A lot of what I wanted to say has already been said here by my colleagues. That's why I'm going to mention the most important thing. In the last regime, we invited and welcomed the troops of the Soviet Union, and now we are de facto inviting and welcoming the troops of the United States. You'd think that kids at school are learning history and history so that society knows what mistakes they've made so that we can learn from our ancestors' mistakes. [[17.10 hours]] But it doesn't seem to work, because the leaders of the current five-calice government are driving us back into a military agreement with a foreign power. Yes, the United States is our partner in the North Atlantic Alliance, but the citizens of the Czech Republic do not want to be involved in the war between the United States and Russia. We do not want to be a buffer in the war conflicts of these world powers. Each power has its own interests, and the United States has, of course, its own interests. Let's not kid ourselves that American soldiers are coming to protect us for free and just to feel good. The state itself is not a charitable organization, and the United States primarily pursues its interests. The SPD movement advocates that citizens should be able to express themselves in a referendum on such fundamental issues in our country's functioning. And that's exactly the case. If there are soldiers of foreign states, it must be agreed by citizens in a referendum, not just by a government that has proven to represent a minority of citizens. We already have more than 20 years of unpleasant experience with this in the previous regime. Let us not allow history to repeat itself. In recent weeks all Members have been contacted by the citizens of the Czech Republic, whom we have been elected and which we represent, express their opposition to this agreement. Every day we get hundreds of e-mails and messages from our citizens. Let us remember how the Czech Republic rejected American radar years ago. Or, better said, it was our citizens who rejected it. And once again, we have a similar situation and we are dealing with a similar matter. We often hear from the media that membership of the North Atlantic Alliance guarantees us security, which is fine. And that was the reason for our entry into this Alliance at the end of the 1990s. Then why the next deal? Why agree to other modified conditions that place our Czech Republic in a secondary role in many agreements? Many unclear questions are the reason why I fundamentally disagree with this agreement and ask the Government for a decision to adopt this agreement in the referendum of all citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u53	Thank you, too. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Balaš and Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to ask Mr Černý by your means, when does he expect Američan to kidnap our government, perhaps even Parliament, into the United States to force the treaty to be signed, just like the Rus did in '68? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Vondráček's turn to prepare Mr Lochman. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. I chose this moment for a factual point only because I was warned during the debate that point four, which I read, was not quite what we were discussing, there was some change in the words to make it sound on the microphone, to put it on the screen. So please, in the framework of the proposed resolution, point four reads: "The agreement does not give the right, without the prior consent of the Czech Republic, to build or reside on the territory of the Czech Republic a permanent military base. " Period. I have already forwarded this version to the rapporteur, I will forward the second version to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, too, for keeping time. And now it is Mr Lochman's turn to prepare Mr Černý. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u58	Good afternoon. Madam President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, very briefly. I can take a lot of things, too, all the time I've been wondering, don't get off, although some of these things are really difficult to listen to. When I listened to my colleague, Mr Černý, through Madam President, colleagues have been saying this all along, do not do this, do not compare it with the sixty-eightth, with the twenty years when we had to suffer under the Soviet Union and their army. And that it took us a lot of work to get them out! You're still doing it, you're constantly comparing, you're saying what it's gonna be like not to do what's going on here. And we're not gonna let that happen. And just so that the Russian bear, which this time, if you haven't noticed, is very aggressive for the last few years, so that, however the Russian bear doesn't jump into the Baltics, to other states, and unfortunately, we're on Russia's enemy list, that's exactly why we're concluding this bilateral treaty here. That's why we're doing this. And the fact that you are constantly comparing the situation with the '68, so just as Mr. Horák said, you insult all the victims, all those who - for example, in Liberec there were victims of the sovět who came and shot at them, drove tanks into them. Since nothing like this will happen, Američan will not come here with tanks and shoot people, they will not kidnap the Czech government. This treaty is what we want and we are doing it so that Czech citizens have more international security. I beg you repeatedly, either read the contract in detail - the journalists understood it, many people understood it, it just seems like you still didn't understand it. Look at her, I'm happy to send you individual comments and I'll also recommend the Ministry of Defence and their questions and answers, we can take a look at it together in the lobby. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for your time, and now it is time for Mr Černý to comment. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Madam President. I dare to respond by your means to Mr Balaš. Ambassador, you're making fun of this. You know this is a serious matter, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for the floor. And now we are back in the debate and it is Mr Hrnčíř's turn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year 55 years have passed since the troops of the Warsaw Treaty entered our country at the invitation of some representatives of the then ruling Communist Party. I never, ever thought that this government, which likes to act democratic, would take an example from the Communist side and invite foreign troops into our country. This time it's American troops. And yet it did. The treaty on defence cooperation with the US, which allows US soldiers to stay and the actual emergence of US bases on our territory - I would like to emphasise that this treaty is binding on our Republic and cannot be denounced for 10 years - another huge breakthrough in our country's sovereignty and, of course, also a major security risk. Why are we rejecting this treaty? First of all, she's useless. The so-called NATO SOFA Treaty has long been sufficiently regulated by the possible stay of NATO troops in alliance partners. Secondly, as has already been said, 10 years have been inexcusable. Thirdly, it significantly limits the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The treaty grants US soldiers, their family members and other employees of possible US bases on the Czech territory extensive privileges, when they will basically have nothing to do with the Czech rule of law. Fourth, it defines important and extensive strategic territories for the Czech Republic, including three military airports, which will go under US administration virtually without the possibility of control or entry by the Czech Republic. Simply put, the Czech Republic will voluntarily hand over parts of its Republic to the US. These are all the main reasons why the approval of the defence treaty between the Czech Republic and the USA is unacceptable to us. And any approval by the government of the proposed amendment to the Constitution, which would then allow it to decide, without any further steps now needed, to stay foreign troops in our territory for up to 60 days, with the possibility that the 60 days can be extended repeatedly. Both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate could only look at the entire process without any possibility of interfering with it. This is an absolute hacking of the democratic principles of this state. Unfortunately, it is now clear that the treaty is likely to be approved. Last week, the Committee on Defence and the Foreign Committee of the House recommended ratification of the Treaty. Only SPD members voted against. We believe that without an opinion from citizens on this Treaty in a referendum, ratification of such a treaty is not acceptable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u63	Thank you, too. And now it is Mrs Štefanová's turn. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today's so-called defence treaty between the Czech Republic and the US, a treaty that the government is convincing us is actually beneficial for us. If it's defensive, it should represent some form of defense. However, this treaty does not mean any defence for the Czech Republic. It does not contain any condition of the defence of the Czech Republic, for example, in its possible attack, but in fact only allows the future presence of the US army on our territory. [[17.20 hours]] In the treaty, the government undertakes to provide the U.S. Army with land and equipment to build buildings, store materials or, for example, weapons on that territory. In such a territory, however, the terms in the contract take precedence over our laws. If a contract with Czech laws is broken, the contract will be followed. When approved in Slovakia, for example, this part was found to be possible unconstitutional by the general prosecutor. However, our government seems to be neglecting this and defending the alleged need for this agreement, and it is precisely referring to the fact that such an agreement has already been concluded by neighbouring countries such as Slovakia or Hungary. Those contracts aren't the same. And I wonder why there is such a difference between the treaties, theirs and ours, especially in the specification of the intervention of US forces outside their reserved territory, where the treaty with the Czech Republic gives much greater scope to the foreign army than in those states. This agreement gives the US Party the right of free entry, entry of military aircraft, vehicles and so on, to our territory without the possibility of control from our side. Moreover, the contract has been inexhaustible for 10 years and represents a significant commitment for the Czech Republic, which, however, significantly exceeds the mandate of this government. Moreover, it does not specify combat and non-combat action, therefore it represents only a risk to the Czech Republic and has nothing to do with defence. That's the kind of contract I strictly reject and should be rejected by the entire House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u65	Thank you, too. It is now Mr Kobza's turn. By the time he gets here, I'll read the apologies. Mr Kuchař apologizes from 18:00 for work reasons and Mr Smetana from 14.15 to 18.15 for work reasons. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said here on the subject of a cooperation agreement with the United States. I think that the most important article in this Treaty is Article 2, which states quite clearly that the purpose of this Treaty is to determine the conditions for US soldiers to stay on our territory. I think that's all there is to it. However, I would like to raise a fundamental question. When this agreement takes effect and becomes fully operational and applicable, will it immediately apply to American soldiers who would be staying in the territory of the Czech Republic, perhaps within some NATO exercise or transit? So I ask whether the treaty will apply only to the new residences of American soldiers, which will be decided by the House and the Senate or the government, and if a constitutional amendment passes, which this government promotes and according to which only the government could decide on the stays of foreign troops in our territory within 60 days. So I ask, will American soldiers in our territory acquire the privileges of this treaty at the moment of its entry into force, even if their stay in the territory of our Republic is launched at a time when this new treaty will not be effective and when will it be governed by the NATO SOFA Treaty? Me, because I'm an older man and I remember a lot, so I also remember the Vltava exercise in January-February 1968, when Soviet troops came to practice and then stayed camping here. And for the next four months, there was a discussion where Soviet troops would leave, because of course no one wanted them here until August 1968, when it was clear why they stayed. The resemblance hits the eye. Next thing. The European Commission plans to spend between 2021 and 2027 under the European Union's budget, the so-called financial framework, EUR 6.5 billion, some CZK 167 billion, to strengthen European infrastructure so that heavy military technology, including tanks, can move around. This decision was made in 2018 on the basis of the warning of NATO command on logistical problems arising from the transfer of military technology within various exercises and crossings of alliance military technology, for example, to the Baltics. The European Commission responded to this in preparation of the EU budget for the period 2021 to 2027 by earmarking the EUR 6.5 billion for the modernisation of transport structures in order to manage the rapid movement of military equipment, including tanks, which, of course, applied to us. These funds should have been used primarily to extend and strengthen bridges and to adapt railway crossings. The transfer of troops from the bases in Germany is said to take a long time now. This was also complained by American general Frederick Benjamin Hodges, who was at the time chief commander of the US ground forces in Europe. General Hodges then pointed out that the Czech Republic, thanks to its geographical location, is a key country for the movement of heavy machinery, while the carrying capacity of bridges of the countries of the former Warsaw Treaty often does not suit Western military technology and NATO, warned. Of course, as a former tanker, I know that the bridges were built to keep our medium tanks T-55 and T-72 weighing up to 40 tons, while under the hundredth-ton Abrams were to fall. The Commissioner for Transport Violeta Bulcová from Slovenia spoke for the European Commission on this issue - I quote: Military requirements must also be taken into account when planning transport infrastructure. Until 2019, the routes necessary for the movement of military equipment were to be checked. A list of places was to be redesigned and renovated. So I ask if the activity since 2018 was related to this present agreement, because the previous government - and we discussed it on the Committee on European Affairs when the Ministry of Transport was there when we discussed this reconstruction - admitted that the bridge reconstructions are being done precisely to strengthen the movement of military equipment. This means that the previous government of Prime Minister Babiš must have somehow known that this treaty was on its way because it had to implement all these measures. So then the question is whether this contract isn't just the icing on the cake, in fact, the measures taken under the previous government and during the first part of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u67	Thank you, too. Mr Metnar is reporting from the position. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, members of the government, thank you for the floor. I may repeat myself, but the Czech Republic has long been considered a reliable partner in the North Atlantic Alliance, not only in terms of Czech contributions to foreign missions, but also in terms of the quality of the armed forces and the entire defence sector. The agreement deepens our cooperation in the future, and thanks to this, we are an equal ally and the North Atlantic Alliance is a guarantee of our security. There are 24 Member States, including our closest neighbours, in the Alliance, which, as has already been said, has a defence agreement of this type. As I said at first reading, we thoroughly analysed the contract with a team of experts, and we really did not underestimate the situation. I cannot say that the contract is perfect, but it is important. I consider the communication of the whole process of the approval and content of the contract to citizens to be insufficient. The government has given its uncommunication a free field of competence for the disinformation scene. It is the government's duty to refute these speculations and the information that has arisen in relation to this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u69	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, please maintain some decent environment. It's really loud in here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, Madam President. That is why the ANO movement also proposed the accompanying resolution, which was presented here by my fellow Member Radek Vondráček, on which there is agreement. [[17.30 hours]] Finally, it should be pointed out once again that the presence of the United States armed forces in the Czech Republic will continue to be possible only with the agreement of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and the agreement also does not give the right to build a permanent military base or reside on the Czech Republic without the prior consent of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. And just in my speech, allow me to conclude by responding to my previous speaker as regards the preparation of this treaty. It has been negotiated, as has been said here repeatedly, by the current minister sometime since October 2022 and it has not been during our period, during the previous government, when Mr. Andrej Babiš was Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Radim Fiala is registered with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just heard Mr Metnar, so I thought, through Madam President, that I have made it clear that this treaty is about the residence of foreign troops, namely American troops, in the Czech Republic. You guys still have some phrases about this not being about staying here, there won't be any bases, so let me remind you. It's not gonna be called a base, but they're gonna be here, and you know it, you're just covering it up. But that's not why I wanted to get off. Of course, the discussion today was interesting. I can see that there was nothing to be done on the part of us convincing the five-wheeler, but that was quite to be expected. But there is a proposal for the YES movement, where there are four points in the resolution, and of course we need to consult. Allow me to ask you for a break in the meeting of the SPD MP for one hour, that we should meet here and vote afterwards. I ask this member of the SPD to go to our MP's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Based on the SPD's request, I'm declaring a one-hour break until 6:31 p.m. when we'll meet again here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 1831 hours, the deadline for the SPD's break has expired. We are going back to our point here, House of Press 462. We are at second reading, we are in a debate that should continue now. No one has yet been logged into the debate. Will I ask if there is an interest in joining the debate from the point of view? That is not the case, so I am ending the debate and I will ask whether there is an interest in the final words by the appellant and the rapporteur. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Like at that first reading, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the debate that has been held here, and I would also like to thank for the cultivation of the debate. I think that really what we could have answered, that's what we were trying to answer. I think that this moment here today, when our Chamber of Deputies will be the next step towards ratification, so also during this period of this House, this event will be recorded in modern history, because the Czech Republic, as you know, will celebrate the anniversary of our accession to the North Atlantic Alliance next year, and we also know that some things will be a little bit more secure for our country, whether it is the Washington Convention or also the SOFA, so I think it is very good that we will confirm the DCA Treaty by this very act, which will therefore ensure greater security for our country, and our country will join and be the 25th country that will have this treaty. So thanks again, everyone, I appreciate this very much, and I very much appreciate the attitude of my colleagues in the YES movement. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Now I ask if there is an interest in the final word by the rapporteur?. It's not like that. We should therefore proceed to the vote. We should first vote on the motion to adjourn indefinitely by Mr Okamura, then we should vote on the resolution proposed by the foreign committee. I may then ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the resolution on which we will vote. The moment we deal with this resolution, we would vote on accompanying resolutions. I have at my disposal the accompanying resolution proposed by Mr Vondráček. That's the procedure. So I'm gonna go get my colleagues in the O.R. I will say once again that we will now be the first to vote on the adjournment that has been made by Mr Okamura during the debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of the adjournment? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 4, 151 Members were voted in, 18 voted in favour, against 114. The motion was denied. Is this Minister Excellent? Isn't the voting device working? [[Voice from the O.R.: Aren't you logged in somewhere else?]] I'll check you all out and ask if you want to question the vote. You do not question, just for the record you simply state that your voting device did not work, but the proposal that we have voted has not been approved and I think we can continue if you do not question your vote. At this point, we have dealt with Mr Okamura's proposal. We should now proceed to the vote of the resolution proposed by the foreign committee. I'll take the liberty of reading it. The resolution is that "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on cooperation in defence" I'm just asking the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee if this is the right thing to do? Yes. We all know what we're going to vote on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of such a proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 5, 144 Members were voted in, 115 voted in favour, against 18. The motion for a resolution was approved and we agreed with the motion for a resolution. We should now proceed to the accompanying vote. The accompanying vote was held in the debate; it is Mr Vondráček's accompanying resolution. You're applying to the vote? Okay, do you want to vote on individual points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u77	All I have is a motion for a follow-up vote. If you agree to this, we would propose that we vote on points, individually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u78	Because I see a general nod here, I think we can go on like this without voting for it. Okay, I'll load it. I'm going to read the preamble plus the first point I'm going to vote on, and then we're going to continue: "The Chamber of Deputies, in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, notes that the 1st conclusion of the Agreement on Defence Cooperation means deepening defence cooperation between the Czech Republic and the United States of America and contributing to greater security of the Czech Republic, as transatlantic cooperation is the basis of the collective defence of NATO countries." We will vote on this first point. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such an accompanying resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 6, 148 Members were voted in favour, 125 voted in favour, against 14. The motion for an accompanying resolution has been adopted. The second point of the accompanying resolution is: "The possible presence of US armed forces in the Czech Republic is possible only with the consent of the Czech Republic and full respect for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the rule of law of the Czech Republic." Item two. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 149 Members voted in favour, 145 Members voted in favour, and there was no one against it. This point of the accompanying resolution has also been adopted. [[18.40 hours]] The third point proposed by the accompanying resolution is: "The agreement does not establish the right to deploy nuclear weapons in the territory of the Czech Republic'. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such an accompanying resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 149 Members were signed in, 146 voted in favour, and 1. This point of the accompanying resolution has also been adopted. And the last, fourth point of the proposed accompanying resolution is: "The agreement does not give the right, without the prior consent of the Czech Republic, to build permanent military bases on the territory of the Czech Republic or to reside permanently on the territory of the Czech Republic." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this issue of the accompanying resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 9, 149 Members were signed in, 147 voted in favour, no one opposed. This point of the accompanying resolution has also been adopted. Is the Member applying for a vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u79	I would like to vote number three, on the third point where I voted in favour, and I object. (Vote: Voting number 8, point 3.) Point 3, eight point three. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u80	And are you questioning the vote, or is it just for the record? [[I'm not questioning you.]] You're not questioning for the record. Thank you very much. Mr Volný to vote is also reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I'm in the same way, I didn't work with the voting machine at the first and second points of this vote. I pressed yes, but I don't have anything on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u82	And you're not questioning the vote? [[I'm not questioning the vote.]] Yeah, so for the tape screen. Thank you. Nobody's voting anymore. I'll ask the rapporteur if we've dealt with all the votes? Mr. Rapporteur? Ambassador? [[No reaction.]] I'll ask if we've dealt with all the votes? Yes. So we're done with the vote. Before I conclude the discussion of this point, President Fiala is still applying with priority rights. Before I give him my word, I'll load up two apologies, if you don't mind. Mrs Kovářová apologises from 5:28 pm for work reasons, Mr Tom Philipp apologises from 17:00 to 18:00 for work reasons. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Allow me to make a brief assessment of this whole point from the perspective of the SPD movement. So you're saying there won't be any bases, OK, there won't be any bases, but American soldiers will be staying here, because Article 2 of this treaty specifies the conditions for US soldiers' stay, so that's what we said. The next item is that you have not allowed this to be discussed in the constitutionally-legal committee and we fear that the foreign jurisdiction in the Czech Republic may be contrary to the Constitution. That was another reason why we didn't support it. And the third reason is clear: because we do not want any foreign troops - neither American, nor Russian, nor any, that is why we voted against this treaty on those points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-07-19-ps2021-072-01-001-001.u84	Yes. Anyone else applying for priority rights? No one's checking in. We have the House press 462, its second reading, exhausted, so I am ending the discussion of item 1. Ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted the 72nd session, which I conclude with this, and I remind you that we will meet here on Friday 21 July 2023, when we will continue the adjourned 71st meeting. Have a nice day.
