ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-053-02-001-103.u1	103. Proposal for the election of a member of the Czech Radio Council I beg you, colleagues, to be quiet, and I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, who is here... is present so that he can take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-053-02-001-103.u2	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, colleagues. I would like to show you today, as has been announced, two points that have been agreed by the Gremium that we will now discuss them, i.e. two electoral points. The first point is the election of a member of the Czech Radio Council. It is the first choice and the first round for the vacancy, i.e. for the entire term of office of six years, and it is for the vacancy, which became vacant on 18 January, when the term of office of the member of the board of Mr Miroslav Dittrich ended. In accordance with the Czech Radio Act on this issue, the Election Committee on 3 January, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, announced a public challenge to the eligible bodies for nominations and proposals to the House, that was until 17 January, and we received five valid nominations for the committee. The subsequent step, again in accordance with the same law and the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, is that the electoral committee will narrow the number of all nominations received to three times the number of vacant posts, i.e. in this case to three, and these three nominations, the final nominations, the committee has passed those nominations to the electoral committee which adopted those nominations in its resolution No 89 of 7 February. The ten-day deadline between the committee hearing and today's choice is therefore fulfilled. I quote the resolution quickly. The Election Commission instructs the President to introduce you to: "I. with proposals for candidates for the election of one member of the Czech Radio Council, these are names: Miroslav Dittrich, Marek Lichtenberk and Oldřich Vágner; II. the special law does not provide for the way in which the election committee and the electoral commission propose a secret choice; III. the chosen member, if the election is successful, shall begin his six-year term of office on the day of the election.'; [[14.00 hours]] As I said, the special law does not provide for the way in which to vote, the electoral commission and the committee propose a secret choice, so, Madam President, I ask you to open the debate on this point first and then we must vote on the implementation of this election in a secret way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-053-02-001-103.u3	Thank you. I therefore open the debate. I am not registering any application for it, I am ending the debate. As has been said, we will vote on the method of choice. There's a secret way to choose. Is there an interest in the final word? It's not. Initiating vote on how to vote. I said, who's for a secret choice? Who's against it? Voting number 56, registered 156, for 150, against 4. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote in secret. I interrupt discussing this point to make the choice. I'm opening up a point of discussion.
