ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will check you out first and ask you to sign up with ID cards or to tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the absence of his/her Fischerová on the Romana of his/her absenceJuchelka the Aleš of his/her absence, the Okleštěk of his/her absence, the date of his/her absence, the date of his/her absence, the Marie of his/her absence, the date of his/her Golasowská for the Pavla day of hisHanzlíkováher work for the Václav král of his/her work for the Heller Šimon of hisZunaher work for the Michal day of his/her work for the Teleky Róbert of his/her work for the Vladimíra Jana of Helebrant/her work for the Ladislav Petr of his/her work for Janda Šebelová Michaela, the Bělobrádek of his/her work for the Lacina Tureček, the date of his/her work for the Bělica Rudolf of his/her work for the Miloslav Janulík, the date of his/her work Kuchař the Jan Karel, the date of his/her work for the whole Tomáš of his/her work for the whole day of his/her work for the whole day. From the members of the government apologize: Balaš Vladimír from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Bartoš Ivan from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Černochová Jana from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Hladík Petr from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day of the hearing for reasons of foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole day of the hearing for reasons of foreign travel, Šalomoun Michal from 17.30 for working reasons and Válek Vlastimil from the whole day of the hearing for working reasons. Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. First of all, we propose to include new points in the approved agenda of the 63rd meeting. As the first point in the Government's bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 332; as a second government bill on extraordinary remission of penalties for social security premiums and contributions to state employment policy and execution costs, House printing 377; as a third government bill on extraordinary forgiveness and the demise of certain tax debts, House printing 384; all in block of Laws - second reading. The legal time limits have been fulfilled since Tuesday 2 May, so it is possible to discuss the House's press. Secondly, we propose the following procedure for this week's negotiations with the agreement that the negotiations will take place on Tuesday, May 2 and Wednesday, May 3 and then the 63rd meeting will be closed. Today, on Tuesday, May 2, we propose to discuss the points in the following order. First of all, the new item, House printing 377, the remission of the premium penalty, if included, and second reading; the new item, House press 384, forgiveness and disappearance of tax debts, if included, second reading again; and then paragraph 22, House press 385, value added tax, at first reading. Tomorrow, on Wednesday, May 3, we propose to discuss the points in this order: paragraph 107, House press 227, environmental information, third reading; paragraph 109, House press 286, road communications, also third reading; then the newly entered point, House press 332, on the runways, if placed, and it is at second reading; then point 111, House printing 300, verification of firearms, third reading; and paragraph 15, House printing 367, radioactive waste storage, first reading. Alternatively, we would discuss other points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. That's all on my side. So now it's possible to sign up for a change in the show. As an overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail, we will proceed directly to the logged in, which I have already registered several. [[Noise in the hall.]] First, President Benda will speak with priority rights, followed by President Schillerová with priority rights, and I will ask you, colleagues, to keep it down. If you have anything to deal with, please move into the lobby, because the noise level is really too high. Once again, colleagues and colleagues who need to deal with anything to move into the lobby. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make the proposals that we announced today on behalf of the coalition on the grémium, but on which there was no consensus on the grémium. This means that today, for the three fixed points, we propose to include four points in terms of elections, or the organisation of elections, in order to make it clear, not the election, but the organisation of elections, namely the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Constitutional Law, the House's press 378, first reading, the present paragraph 17; the Government's proposal for an election law, the House's press, point 19; and the Senate's bill amending the Law on elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as amended, the House's press 39, first reading, paragraph 44. These four points would be included as the existing three, which were expressed from the Gremium. [[14.10 hours]] Following them would be included, but no later than 18 o'clock, House document 1927, motion for the appeal of Daniel Köppl as a member of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, with the announcement that we would have completed this point today, even if we had acted after 19 o'clock or 21 o'clock, we would not have taken the vote until this afternoon, so far I do not propose. Furthermore, I propose that tomorrow, as the second item, we include the Government's bill amending Law No. 143/2001, on competition protection, and other laws, House press 283, third reading, paragraph 108. Then there are those points that are classified from the Gremium. And as a last item, we would include a government bill amending Law No. 424/1991 Coll., on association in political parties, House press 312, third reading, point 105, which we would place for all those firmly placed on the center. So many of my proposals for the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u3	Thank you for your suggestions. The next person shall speak with the priority right entered by President Schillerová and followed by President Okamura. [[There's noise in the room.]] And once again, colleague and colleague, please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, let me ask for a point to discuss today's ongoing meeting called Potemkin's village in the state budget and please include today as the first item of today's meeting day. Since October last year, I have long warned that the state budget presented for 2023 was just a piece of paper. First, regardless of the consequences, it was designed so that its deficit would not start with a threesome. Secondly, it was designed so that for at least the most dedicated ODS fans it would work in a lower deficit. Thirdly, it was designed so that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura did not lose his face and could pretend to consolidate. But, of course, this budget is nothing but a famous Potěmkinův village. I have already pointed out some of the fundamental errors at the first reading of the state budget, some of which have only been shown over time. The problem remains that this budget is not real, it is based on plentiful foundations and it prefers the impression to the content itself. After all, today's cashier performance for April, just now - at 14 o'clock - published, is right. $200 billion deficit, ladies and gentlemen, $200 billion to $30. 4. Hello, Mr President, by your means, Madam President. [[Member J. Bernard.]] 200 billion deficits, that's hell, hell. The five-calice just continues its dubious marketing, with which it actually started immediately after the beginning of its mandate. The memorialists still remember very well, as they promised CZK 100 billion of spending on the spending side, so we had one extreme, long budget make-up. The result was cuts not for CZK 100 billion, but for CZK 34 billion, but not for the operation of the state, but for pro-growth investments or health care. The rest were arranged by inflation revenues. And in this poor budgeting, where there is some short-sighted fiscal marketing in the first place, the five koalice continues in 2023. But let's go back to the present. The year 2023 and errors in the state budget for nearly 160 billion crowns. In other words, this year's law of the year, and the most important law that determines the political constraints of every government, is a fraud of decades. One of the most fundamental mistakes of this year's budget is the missing 50 billion crowns that the government wanted to use from the Modernisation Fund, but somehow forgot - well, forgot, we reminded her many times, we even prepared the legislation, my colleagues, Vice-President of the House Karel Havlíček and fellow Member Richard Brabec, so she did not have to forget the necessary legislation, both at national and international level, because it would still need the notification of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank. Every meeting I've been saying since the fall. The five-calice has written in the state budget revenue from emission allowances and cut these 50 billion from the State Environmental Fund to smash a hole in the state budget - an imaginary smack in the hole. The problem is that these funds will never get into the state budget. So it's a regular accounting scam that's gonna cost us dearly. In addition to, of course, missing revenue, the deficit itself will jump. In the long term, I draw attention to this, and my colleague Brabec points out this in the long term, and I very much welcome the clear position of the independent National Budget Board. After all, even in the cash-flow report for the first quarter of this year, approved by the government last week, it is clearly stated that the fulfilment of these revenues after three months is equal to zero. Repeat, zero. What other evidence does the coalition need to think about whether Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance, is pulling on her? I wonder whether these accounting tricks are fully in the direction of the impeccable creativity of the Minister of Finance Stanjura, simply using the essential ignorance - forgive me - of his government colleagues in the field of taxes and budgetary procedures, or a group work, that the Minister of Finance informs his colleagues of his tricks and tricks and gives him a toe on them. I would not be surprised by either option, but ultimately it is not important, although the Minister of Finance expressed himself in the media that this was decided by the government as a whole. We have a prime minister whose main priority is foreign policy. What happens at the Ministry of Finance, let alone what troubles Czech citizens, the Prime Minister who lives on the cloud is only interested formally. That is why the Minister of Finance Stanjura today has no relevant opponent within the coalition. And when one of his problems finally burst in public, as it did in the past few days with the missing 50 billion crowns of the Modernization Fund, he has no problem blaming his government colleagues. Alibistically, they talk about a collective political decision, a collective decision by the government. In other words, the biggest fraud has no culprit. But regardless of whether Zbyněk Stanjura is the culprit or the whole five-calice, it is clear today that CZK 50 billion in the revenue of the state budget will simply be missing. [[14.20 hours]] Moreover, Minister Hladík is making excuses today that this decision took place at a time when he was not yet in the government, so peace and quiet. Why would he do that? But it's not like that, Minister Hladík. I don't envy this situation, but maybe it didn't happen when you were in the government, but you just have to deal with the consequences of this decision. This is already a high policy, Minister. I understand it's complicated, and it's not for everyone, but there's no excuse. 50 billion crowns of income depends on your activity or inactivity. Whether or not we have 50 billion income is the same question as whether or not the government will take CZK 5,000 from each citizen, and that includes children and pensioners. That's really not enough, Minister Hladík. So far, according to the Treasury officials, you haven't earned a dime, there's one big zero. I want to assure you that we will follow the cashier's performance very closely and you will bear the political consequences to the last crown. Today it is not so much about finding the culprit, but at least to return the basic rules and the return of credibility on which it has so far been based, whoever was the Minister of Finance, from any side. Unfortunately, the optical effort to reduce deficits does not end with the 50 billion from the Modernization Fund. We still have the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, where the model of behavior of Minister Stanjury is repeated, which I described a moment ago. He simply comes and thinks that he could slap a hole in the state budget here, and he will do so, regardless of the reputation of the Czech Republic with credit rating agencies, regardless of the future trust of citizens towards the budgetary process. Minister Stanjur, absent, by 30 billion crowns missing from the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, was to increase the deficit of the state budget, simply because it should be for clarity. Moreover, the government budget deficit is not meant to be passed on to state funds. After all, this way ad absurdum could have moved the entire state budget deficit, you could have had zero, managed without a deficit. But by building Potěmkinův's villages in the state budget, it doesn't end. In the state budget, we will also miss income from the tax on unexpected profits and the levy on the energy ceiling, amounting to CZK 60 billion. The fact that the total collection of these two taxes might not reach the planned CZK 100 billion was discussed several times. Independent economists pointed it out. I have, of course, alerted the government to that. How did Minister Stanjura even think he'd get over 100 billion crowns out of energy and bank giants just like that? Did he really think that if he announced in the fall of 2022 that he was taxed and above the standard corporate tax level he would add another 60 percent, they would just wait and watch? Did he think that the Belgian owners of ČSOB, Austrian owners of Česká spořitelna or French owners of Komerční banka would be grateful to hand over their assets to the Czech treasury? Did he think they'd give up the fairy-tale profits the Fialův government had given them before? And did he think that this fundamental legislation could only go through as an adhesive to the tax package without proper commentary proceedings? The result is quite clear. A sharp drop in expected revenues from the main sectors, which were expected to be a major fiscal return, i.e. from the energy and banking sector. For example, MONETA announced that this year it will not take anything to a windfall tax. The management has explicitly stated that it will not do anything to windfall tax this year due to the larger volume of held government bonds for which interest income is exempt. Thus, a completely legal tax optimization, which I have already pointed out and which we could have prevented if these taxes were introduced in a standard legislative way. One of the largest banks operating in the Czech Republic, ČSOB, said that it would take tens of millions tops, but probably nothing. The real financial benefit of these extraordinary measures is income from the semi-state CEZ, i.e. the means that Minister Stanjura could have gotten to in a relatively more legislative way. The second result, which was not intended but certainly not surprising, is the departure of some companies from the Czech Republic, and thus a permanent reduction in income tax collection. It is therefore a question of whether the long-term economic benefit of introducing this tax is actually not negative. Today, this whole windfall tax bluff is quite clearly and unambiguously the political responsibility of the Minister of Finance Stanjura. This is what it looks like when absolutely fundamental legislation is created without analysis, without forecasting market developments and possible impacts. We can only see the real analysis now, and it results in a 60 billion lower recovery for the state budget. At this point, I must also recall the failure to include the compulsory valuation of pensions in the state budget, which results in a fundamental violation of Czech legislation, in the context of a disgraceful amendment that we will be attacking this week at the Constitutional Court, a shameful amendment made at the expense of that part of the population, which, for the most part, no longer has the ability to improve its economic situation in its own activities. However, despite this shameful amendment, for which you raised your hand, representatives of the five-calice, there are still CZK 15 billion missing in the state budget, which is reduced by the legal claims of Czech pensioners as a result of this budget amateurism, so it has a much broader impact than fiscal impact. The argument of a five-calice talking about the welfare of pensioners does not reflect the current state of the majority of the Czech pensionist population. The five-calice even created in the younger generation, in the young generation, the feeling that pensioners today live at their expense and that pensioners did not deserve their pension as if they hadn't earned it. This is a subject that I personally can never forgive for this ruling five-calice. The fact that I have to explain to young people today and daily that pensions are something that the pensioners deserved, that it is something that they are entitled to, that it is not only a legal but also a moral claim, and that unfortunately, as a result of a completely stupid and long-term untenable fiscal policy of the five-calice, this has already taken root in society and will take years to fix it. Let us remember the injustices of the 2008 crisis, 2009 and 2011 and 2012. The policy of five-calice digging trenches between young and retired people is the last thing we need in the Czech Republic at present. I'm not surprised that the Minister of Finance Stanjura doesn't understand that because of his own ego's own fault. Personally, however, I expected more from Prime Minister Petr Fiala, for he, as Prime Minister, is responsible for the fact that the law of the year of this government is nothing but a fraud of decades. That's why I'm reading a point called Potemkin Village in the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u5	Mr Okamura, who is next registered with the priority right, will now appear. Madam Vice-President Dostálová will follow with priority law. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that two SPD points be discussed on the agenda of this Chamber of Deputies meeting, which are essential in terms of the need for timely assistance by two of our citizens' most socially threatened groups, because the Fialův Government simply does not give a shit about our citizens and the Fialův Government does absolutely nothing in this area despite repeated promises. That is why we are putting forward the necessary proposals in the final legislative form, which can be applied immediately into practice. This is a proposal to increase the contribution to care for seriously disabled citizens, dependent on the care of others, in I. and II. the degree of addiction that last increased more than seven years ago. In December, here in the House, the members of the Fialův Government five-wheelers deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing this SPD law properly at first reading by not applying to voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, and thus approaching its application into practice, what is most necessary. The SPD supports disabled citizens. But Petr Fiala's government is throwing them away and rejecting any help from these citizens. The only thing the five-police government has done in this regard is increase social services prices for those disabled citizens from 1 January, leading to further deterioration in their income situation, to a deterioration in the quality of their lives and to a deterioration in their health status. I'd like to ask the government colleagues here if you even know, for example, how much is the contribution to care for disabled adults in grade I, which is people who can't handle up to four basic needs of life? 880 crowns a month. This is a disgrace to Petr Fiala's government and utter disgrace. I therefore propose that this item be placed as the second item in today's negotiations, or as the first item in tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. So once again, the SPD suggests that we support, increase the contribution to the care of disabled citizens, but Petr Fiala's government has repeatedly rejected us here. So I hope that you will vote in favour today - although I don't think so, because you are an antisocial government and you simply support yourself. That is what we saw yesterday, as we read about the pirát, that a quarter of the members of the Pirates, i.e. about 300 out of a total of 1,200, are sucked into public money supply and are sucked full of public money on the basis of political nominations. Even many pirát in office have a salary of hundreds of thousands a month. So here you can see flagrantly how the pirát behave and how they do exactly the opposite of what they say. I would also like to suggest...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u7	I beg you, I'm sorry, Mr President, this is the House press. How much? I didn't notice you saying that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u8	Come on, it's point number 29, which is House press number 9. [[President: 29.]] And it is a proposal from the SPD Members to amend the Social Services Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u9	Thank you, thank you. Please, come in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u10	Furthermore, I would like to propose to the agenda of this meeting to include the discussion of paragraph 79, which is House Press 266, and it is again the proposal of the SPD Members to increase parental contribution and to introduce its annual automatic valorisation directly into the law. This is an amendment to the Act on State Social Support. The reason for this is that families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups in the long run, which is all the more true at the moment, even with regard to the Fialův Government caused by high inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its level from 2020, when it was last raised, and the Purple Government's five koalice again is unable to submit a bill to increase it itself. Only the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL only talks about this over and over again, but because he is incompetent and incompetent, there is no bill here, and apparently he does not want to present it, because the priority of the Fialův Government is expensive foreign purchases and support of various foreigners abroad, but our citizens, our needy families with children or disabled citizens of the Fialův Government simply don't give a damn about the Purple Government. So I'd like to assign this SPD law. You've got it all written down by us, so just raise your hand for it, and we just want a parent's contribution to go up. And when Fialův's government is theoretically proposing something, some amount to increase this contribution, it's completely inadequate value, far below inflation, so it's useless. In this context, I would like to remind you that last year the birth rate in the Czech Republic has dropped record, which undoubtedly has something to do with the fact that the social, economic and other security of families with the smallest children by the state is at an absolutely inadequate level, and people are simply afraid to have children for these reasons as well. Well, this is where I'd stop by for a short while. And that is precisely the stumbling block, one of the important moments why the SPD simply cannot agree with the Fialův Government on pension reform, because the proposal for pension reform by the Fialův Government, and here it is in charge of the Fialův Government of KDU-ČSL, the People's Party, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka, are against the support of families with children, against! They're against children and support families with children. That's why your retirement reform of the People's Party and the Fialův Government - and we were at those meetings, we're taking part in those negotiations - is actually robbing three million pensioners of valorization. You robbed them on average by CZK 1,000 a month, so in June they will receive less, next month than they were promised under the law, and it is that you want to increase the retirement age for Czech citizens, and you also want to reduce the valorisation and replace it with some one-time social contribution, which will once again reduce the valorisation, because it will not count to that basis. That means, that's your pension reform that we just don't agree with. And the SPD says that it is necessary to increase the support of working families with children so that working families are not afraid to have more children, two to three, and that, after these children grow up, they finance pensions of existing seniors, their parents and so on, because we have an ongoing pension system. Well, you don't want to do that, so you're going to the European Union system to want to take different migrants. After all, today our MEP Ivan David spoke about this at a press conference, voted in favour of it in the European Parliament and in government MEPs, simply to take some migrants from Africa, Arabia, Arab countries and the like, but instead to support working families with children, Czech working families with children, to get more money into the system, you simply do not want to do so. So you're against families, you're doing anti-family politics, you're doing politics against Czech working families with children, so you're afraid to have children. This also applies to the fact that an increase in housing availability should also be part of the pension reform, because young people do not have the money to live in. Now, because of the Fialův government caused by high inflation, high interest rates are high mortgage rates, so working young people can't even reach mortgages anymore, so basically young people today, because they don't have housing, in Prague, rent prices have increased because of the influx of Ukrainian migrants, so they are for Czech young people, but also for Czech citizens basically - renting an apartment in Prague is basically no longer affordable for many people, so of course the young people, the young working people, the couples, the husbands and so on are afraid to have children because they are afraid that they won't have money for it. And that is the result of this incompetent Fialův government, and that is why we also cannot agree with you on this pension reform, because we say that we need to fundamentally support the pro-family policy, as the SPD says, to fundamentally support working couples so that they are not afraid to have children. And so are our proposals, and this bill of ours, where we want to increase parental contribution and introduce its annual automatic valorisation directly into the law. So I propose to include this point, which is item number 70, House press number 266, as the third point of today's negotiations, or the second point of tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. [[14.40 hours]] So, in summary, the SPD proposes to assign our two laws, the SPD laws, to help disabled citizens dependent on other people's care, those are really the most necessary, and at the same time we propose to support families with children. And I call on the members of the government coalition, because here you have a majority in the vote to support these proposals. I know you won't support them because you are against the disabled citizens of Czech Republic and against families with children, but we will just continue to fight for these groups of residents, and we will continue to fight for them for the SPD. As the third proposal, and this is a proposal for an extraordinary point for today's House meeting agenda, I propose a point called the Fialův Government is preparing to raise taxes. And now I'd like to justify it. These measures by the Fialův Government will lead to further increases and will put other households in poverty and existential distress. Petr Fiala's government from the ODS continues its internal negotiations to reduce the state budget deficit and state debt growth, which itself caused by its inactivity and incompetence. We are witnessing record-breaking debt of the Czech Republic, and the Fialův Government is driving the Czech Republic into a Greek script, which means that it can also result in state bankruptcy. And I'd really like to ask the media not to shut up about it, because they're going to say that on the one hand, there's Okamura, Babiš, and on the other hand, there's a five-wheeler that the mainstream media is all rooting for, but that's a disaster, it's a disaster that the Fialův government is leading us into. And I think that we really need to discuss this here publicly, at what stage and what the government is actually up to, because we, as opposition and citizens, are learning basically fundamental, and it is true information, but it is not information comprehensive yet, overall, because we know from our sources that you are planning far worse things for citizens. So, while the government's negotiations are partly accompanied by an information embargo, part of the proposals are already public, and the situation is so serious that I suggest that we discuss this publicly, what the Fialův Government wants for citizens to do. It is quite obvious that Fialův's five-calice government is going to increase more tax types for Czech citizens and companies, across the board, and you also want to increase the mandatory contributions, which is a serious violation of the pre-election promises of government parties, because government parties before the elections in October 2021, which is a year and a quarter ago, so you promised not to increase taxes. And now, essentially, there is a flagrant violation of the pre-election promises of government parties as well as the government's original programming statement, but it is also a measure that would, at a time of astronomically rising prices of basic life needs, again because of the incompetent Fialův government, so these government measures would make absolutely no sense of reducing household net incomes and some of them would get into poverty and existential distress. Why the incompetent Fialův government? Because Fiala, Prime Minister Petr Fiala here repeatedly lies to the public, lies here that the Czech Republic is in government, and spreads - sorry, in war - lies because the Czech Republic is not at war, scares people, inspires panic. I think it's a criminal offence to spread the alarm, but the Prime Minister has immunity. That's it, it's like he's throwing games on the wall. We're not in any government, we're not in any war, we're not being dragged into this war, we're not being intimidated here, and all you want to do is justify the overpriced foreign military purchases of the most expensive fighters and so on and so on. But so did you promise not to raise taxes, and the Prime Minister is making excuses for Ukraine. But inflation in the Czech Republic is much higher than the average in the European Union, 15 percent in the Czech Republic, less than 10 percent in the European Union. And that means other countries have the problem - if it were the way Prime Minister Fiala says it is - they have the problem, too. But she only has it in the Czech Republic, basically. We are one of the few countries, now we have learned the numbers of Eurostat, the European Statistical Office, which is the office of your beloved European Union, that, in terms of purchasing power, Czech citizens have the most expensive electricity and gas prices due to the Fialův Government! That means it's not because of Ukraine, it's because of the incompetent and incompetent Fialův government. Everything, everything! You draw money out of people's pockets for nothing, to all citizens of the Czech Republic. The voters who voted for you probably don't mind, but the SPD voters just don't mind. Why do we have much higher inflation than other countries because of the incompetent Fialův government? After all, consider that energy prices, both gas and electricity, according to the European static office in Hungary, Slovakia and Poland are below the European Union average, which means they have much cheaper than the European Union average. And we're converted into purchasing power for the Fialův Government, for the pirát, for the ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, and STAN's most expensive energy. That's a crazy thing to do, and we're just not gonna keep quiet about it because you're pulling money out of the pockets of SPD voters who didn't vote for you or vote for you, and our voters just don't like it. And I have to say that the fact that you want to raise taxes and raise taxes will also lead to this, it is another upside measure by your government, and it is further upheaval. This is unbelievable! Look at food prices! In Poland it is cheaper, in Germany there are many cheaper foods, Čech go shopping there, and you don't even deal with it! And we told you that a year ago, you're supposed to lower your VAT on basic food to zero, I've told you this place more than a year ago on this microphone. Prime Minister Petr Fiala mocks our suggestions and looks where he led the Czech Republic. Government proposals for budget consolidation are simply systemically and conceptually completely flawed. In the opinion of the SPD, it must start by cutting out the necessary expenditure of the state, especially where it does not serve Czech citizens or to finance public services, where it does not serve to finance public services, which the state must ensure. So we say, the funding of public services that the state must secure, maintain, do not cut such expenses! But there is a need to cut unnecessary spending, which means, for example, reducing state bureaucracy, overpriced military orders from abroad, supporting solar barons, inadaptable and so on, while reducing state bureaucracy - when I was looking at how the government coalition wants to revise the government statement with which you stood before the House a year and a quarter ago, and you lied to the entire House that you gave us all the government statement, even in opposition, and you said that this will be voted on, so you misled us all. We did not vote for you, of course, we voted against the government's trust, because of course we estimated that you would be lying, that it is a fraud and that it is unrealistic - but you actually lied to the entire Chamber of Deputies, it doesn't matter who and how, because now you are changing government statements, and there, among other things, you are putting in one of the proposals for changes, that you are pushing the government's audit for a year, that in-depth audit of the state administration, which should reveal exactly the duplicate agenda, so that, eventually, the duplication would end in order to save public money, and that you're pushing back a new year, or it will never be, because then in two years, there are elections, two years and something. That means, even here, where you could save public money in the order of billions, so you chose to save on pensioners. So you took the pensioners, but to remove the duplicate agendas in the state administration, you resigned from the government's statement and postponed it for another year. That means, basically, it's never gonna be until the election. So that's how you approach it, and that's how I explained what we mean, for example, by reducing state bureaucracy. The proposal to revise your government statement is, for example, that you wanted - originally you had there, that you would analyse the benefits, benefits or negative effects of the Green Deal on the Czech Republic. And you're basically going to resign now, because you've probably already, I'd say, gone somewhere in the European Union, I'd say to Brussels that you've basically already completely resigned, and you're actually just nodding. You guys are nods, and no matter what it takes, you're indulging in any Green Deal proposal, which, by the way, of course, we also saw a few days ago about the warming up and the new emission allowances. Head of head, it'll cost people oil, gas, construction of new houses, reconstruction of houses, another huge increase, and all you do is nod everything. Another lie by Prime Minister Fiala, who expressed himself in the election campaign, I would say slightly critical of the Green Deal, but the deed has escaped, you are already nodding everything, and another auction for the Czech Republic. [[14.50 hours]] This means that these are all problems, and I think we need to discuss this here because you want to raise taxes, which is why I propose an extraordinary point of the Fialův Government wants to increase taxes, so you want to work people down, and at the same time where real money can be saved, but you really need to start working for the Czech Republic, where you have completely resigned. So, as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point in the Government's planning to raise taxes. I also propose another extraordinary point, because the previous points on the social issues that I proposed as second and third, so as the fourth point of today's House of Deputies meeting, if my points were approved, which I proposed as 1, 2, 3, I would propose a point called the Fialův Government approved a treaty on the US military presence, the US military presence in the Czech Republic. And that's what I think is a really big problem, because we at the SPD say we don't want any foreign soldiers in the Czech Republic, no foreign soldiers present, no Russian, U.S.A., Germany, we just don't want bases here where foreign soldiers will be, and it doesn't matter whether from the east or west, we just don't want foreign soldiers here. And that treaty, approved by the Fialův Government, about the US military presence in the Czech Republic, allows, among other things, the US Army to use military space and buildings, and not only that. I would just point out once again that the SPD movement is saying a clear "no" to foreign military bases in our territory, either from the east or from the west, and the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS last week approved a treaty with the United States of America on defence cooperation. Well, it's not a cooperation agreement, some balanced cooperation, of course not. It is a treaty for the future military presence of the US in the Czech Republic, which allows the armed forces of the US to use military spaces and buildings, at the air bases of Čáslav, Pardubice, Náměšť and Mošnov in the Moravian-Silesian Region. I was elected as a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region and our voters, at least our voters do not want the presence of American soldiers at Mošnov Airport because citizens rightly fear that it will then be one of the first targets in the event of armed conflict. They don't want American soldiers there to be a base in Mosnov, the Moravian-Silesian region. I don't want it either, that's why I'm here fighting for it. Those American soldiers will be able to use military training spaces according to what has been approved here by the government, Fialův's five-wheeler, ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, and will also use barracks in Vyškov, Rancířov and Stará Boleslav. In all these locations, the US can build its own buildings, including food stores, open catering facilities, banking services, social and educational centres and so on. In the case of approval of the contract, and she has already approved it by the government, we will discuss it in the House, in the case of approval of the contract, so they will be able to move freely in the territory of the Czech Republic and operate the armed forces of the USA, including family members. The references of government politicians that this agreement does not change anything are not true. It introduces a free mode of arrival, departure, introduction of any movable items and storage of weapons and ammunition into these premises, without the possibility of checks by the Czech Republic. De facto it will be a similar principle as applied on the territories of the embassy. Of course, it is a question of how it will be with the crimes committed by American soldiers in the Czech Republic, because it is often the apple of contention on this very treaty, when an American soldier rapes someone, in fact, there are very negative experiences in Japan, so then the US party is actually preventing him from being tried in that country, and it says that it is to be subject to American law - it is doing so in our territory, against our citizens that the crime would happen. So, of course, this is another moment. And I have to say, de facto, this is going to be a similar principle that is just applied to the territory of the embassy, which is essentially immunity. Moreover, the agreement is concluded for ten years when it cannot be terminated. The contract is disadvantageous and unnecessary for the Czech Republic. In addition, only 24 NATO member states already have it with the US, and we already have the NATO SOFA Treaty. The SPD movement tells clear "no" to foreign bases and troops in our territory and we will vote in the House against the approval of this treaty. We just got rid of some soldiers after 30 years, and now we're supposed to have another one here? I say again, we don't want soldiers from the east, nor Russian soldiers, nor German, nor American, nor others, it's just completely out of the question for us. So it is necessary to discuss this in public, so what the government is actually pushing for the public to say about it, because I am convinced that a large part of the public will not want - it will not want to! - the presence of American soldiers in our territory, as approved by the Fialův government. And I'm saying again, and it's a subject that resonates enormously among the citizens, because after the experience of 1968 and the Second World War, first they were German soldiers, then they were soldiers of four countries, there were Soviet troops, so at least the voters of the SPD don't want any foreign soldiers here. I say again, neither from the east nor from the west, so it just needs to be discussed. So I propose this as the fourth point of today's House of Deputies meeting, and if my previous points are approved, otherwise it moves forward, and that would, of course, be the first point. As another point, an extraordinary point at the House of Deputies meeting, I propose a point called The number of illegal immigrants in our territory has increased by 40 percent, which is a huge number. So let's see what the problem is. Once again Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement, Chairman of the STAN movement, who doesn't care, who doesn't care, that's over and over again. While repeating the same scenario from last year, it did nothing at all, and foreign police of the Czech Republic revealed 2,658 illegal migrants in the first three months of this year, which is, of course, only the tip of the iceberg, and already this number is an increase of 40,6 % compared to the same period last year. The vast majority of these people were discovered in connection with illegal residence in the Czech Republic. As part of the so-called transit migration, the Syřan dominated Turkey and Morocco's citizens. Many of these migrants have shown false evidence. Last year, Czech police officers arrested a total of 29 235 people in our territory due to illegal migration, which was 18 065 more than in 2021. So here you can see that last year, only those who were detained in our territory were 30,000 illegal migrants, which is a huge number. It's just one medium-sized city. And now, at this point, compared to last year, we have an increase of 40.6 percent, which means this year it could be no longer 30,000, but it could be 50,000 already. And of course, because spring is beginning, it's getting warmer, the trend will only grow, because the borders are like a colander because of the incompetent Fialův government and Minister Rakušan of the STAN movement, so of course it will. I'm telling you this now, and I don't have to have a psychic ball. It's only gonna get worse because of the Fialův government. Of course, Syria's citizens prevail; they are roughly two thirds of the total. So, in the light of these data, we consider the SPD to be very appropriate and in terms of the security of Czech citizens as well as the desirable renewal of permanent controls at our national borders, especially with Slovakia, where the largest number of illegal migrants flows. We also propose that crossing the state border should become a criminal offence which, of course, will have an appropriate penalty rate to discourage it. So that is my proposal, and I would propose that as the fifth point of today's House of Deputies meeting, and, of course, if you do not approve the previous points, it would move towards the first points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u11	Vice-President Dostálová is now registered with priority rights, Vice-President Havlíček will be prepared. I will just announce that Mr. Vrána will vote today with a replacement card number 15. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a point in today's meeting. I know I've been bothering you about this for a long time, but we really just have to do something about living in the Czech Republic. If you don't want to address this as a package, such as housing or housing support in the Czech Republic, let's at least put a point on today's meeting called Rent Housing Support in the Czech Republic. What's going on? Last week, Minister Bartoš presented a program called Rent Living. The State Investment Support Fund, in cooperation with the Ministry, allocated CZK 800 million for the construction of rental flats. Of this amount, most of the financial support, approximately CZK 500 million, is exclusively intended for municipalities and 300 million is intended for the business sector. Supported apartments will be offered to people who own no real estate and at the same time spend much of their income on housing, such as singles and singles or seniors. Here's the first problem, because if, of course, we finish this sentence, we would expect some reduced rent to help these people at today's huge energy prices and at huge inflation, but it's not. The municipalities are again exposed to two types of aid, namely de minimis aid, or the so-called GBER. This means that you have to rent these flats for market rent at a place that is usual with a period of sustainability of 20 years. I, of course, agree with the very idea of promoting rental housing, but I am terribly lacking in the debate with the municipalities so that the municipalities themselves tell themselves that the mayors of the municipalities - now allow me, I mean the mayors with a small s, not a movement that represents only 4 percent of the mayors of the municipalities - but that all mayors in the Czech Republic may say what they really need, what their obstacles are to making housing at community level take place in some way. As set up by the programme, the municipality will receive a subsidy of a maximum of 25 per cent at the interest rate, which is actually given to the Czech Republic today at a rate of 7.42 per cent, so the minister put in the regulation that this rate will be reduced by 3 percentage points, which means that we will get to some 4.42 per cent. At the same time, the regulation states that the interest rate is at least 1 %, not more than 3. The minister doesn't play 1.42%, no one's handling it, and the mayors are going to have the problem of approval within the council again, because they won't actually know how to count it. I am not even talking about the fact that we are talking about 25% of the subsidy from the total amount of the project, which, of course, can be very little incentive for municipalities. Let me give you a simple example. When the municipality tells itself that it will make a project worth approximately CZK 10 million, it will receive a subsidy of CZK 2.5 million and will pay CZK 1.5 million for VAT, so the real grant is of course very low. That's just not gonna be attractive to those communities in any way. All of this is expected to happen with VAT. If VAT increases to 21 percent for construction works, the municipalities will pay 2.1 million and the subsidy will be 2.5 million. I can already see how municipalities flock to the construction of rental housing when they are still under the obligation of 20 years of sustainability, that is, 20 years of community will not be able to deal with these apartments. I would rather expect the government to think about the fact that there are roughly CZK 400 billion in the accounts of municipalities and cities and that, on the contrary, this money needs to be activated. But to activate these resources - because municipalities know very well that when they have them in their accounts that they have enormous lines in this inflation, and it is necessary to start negotiating with the government, with the state, under what circumstances those municipalities are willing to let these resources into realization of housing. It is necessary to prepare a certain administrative framework or to talk about the fact that these are greasy projects or, of course, some incentive support from the state. The municipality invests 50 per cent, the state gives it 50 per cent, or just to be some kind of real deal with the state itself. I hear very often that the state is not supposed to enter into housing policy, but I do not think that we will simply avoid this step in the current situation, which is - and allow me to repeat a few numbers again to explain why it is inevitable to invest state resources in this area. The price of real estate is extremely high today. We see it everywhere. What is also alarming is that the ratio is beginning to rotate, that although property prices have dropped a little bit as such, our rents are growing in a huge way. Of course, we have a really big problem in this situation, because the construction law has been postponed for another year, which means, really, the faster, more efficient construction isn't until sometime in 2025, when the prices are really going to rise very high. Just to compare the supply price of real estate. For example, if we look at the average of 2010, the real estate price index was about 100 points. In the first quarter of 2023, however, we are already at 220.5. In the Czech Republic without Prague it is approximately 206.6, in Prague alone it is 234.4. That means we've had more than twice the price of real estate here since 2010. In fact, this proves clearly that housing for young people, for example, is becoming a luxury. I will give one particular example, which I actually deal with regularly in my Chamber of Deputies office. The young family took a mortgage of 3 million crowns. This is very humorous today, because for the 3 million crowns you're gonna buy today - well, you're not gonna get anything. Talking about someone getting a $3 million apartment in Prague is just out of any reality. But okay, on the particular example. At a $3 million mortgage today, the young family is paying CZK 17,500 for this $3 million mortgage. When I was a secretary, that amount wasn't even 11,000. Now imagine that these young people are exposed not only to such a mortgage increase, but to a huge increase in energy prices, a huge increase in food purchase prices due to inflation and so on. What is this young family supposed to do? How can he go into rental housing when we read this week or maybe last week that rental housing is just getting unavailable, because it got so expensive that those young people just can't reach this? Actually, the fact that he can't buy anything for the $3 million is completely obvious. Why isn't the government here dealing with the fact that, on the one hand, the mayors of the municipalities actually have an agreement on how to use the 400 billion they have in their account to activate housing policies in individual regions and municipalities, but on the other hand, to contribute, for example, to promoting cooperative housing? Once again, Minister Bartoš stopped the Youth Housing Support programme at the Ministry of Regional Development, where the State Investment Support Fund gave favourable loans to young people for cooperative participation. That's what this is about, these young people have to put down some kind of advance or principal, but if we look in the context of mortgages, young people up to 36 years old, if they want to take out a mortgage today, they have to put 300,000 crowns on that $3 million mortgage, but if it's people over 36 years old, that's once that much. I ask where is the KDU-ČSL policy, who, when we were discussing the youth housing program, wanted us to put the age limit on 40 years, because today with family and family start a little later, 36 years is very few. That means we have a lot of moms on maternity leave just about that year 35, 36, 37 and these people basically can't reach any form of housing at all. [[15.10 hours]] So I'd like to ask you again, let's at least try to bounce off, try to discuss the rental housing here and place it as the first point of today's negotiations so that we can modify the program in some way so that the views of individual mayors can actually be heard here, which is why it is not housing. Is it land? Is this a matter of spatial planning? What is it? Because if we don't discuss this here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, neither the Ministry nor Minister Bartoš is likely to be able to raise any debate with the Union of Cities and Municipalities in order to implement these causes. When we implemented the Construction program, I had regular meetings with the mayors, and that's why we constantly modified it, because the mayors said, look, he's really a problem with the land, come give us extension, extension, everything we've made possible. So let's talk about these things on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, there are many mayors who can certainly give the feedback. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u13	Mr. Vice-President Havlíček is now registered with priority rights and will be prepared by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u14	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to place a point which I have called Disbelief of independent authorities by the government of Petr Fiala. I ask that this be listed as the first item in today's meeting. Perhaps we agree that the most typical characteristic of the government's five-calice is incredible labeling and disdainfulness. I'm sure we could find another analogy, but I think this is quite obvious. Demonstrating? Then you're a deisolate or a pro-Russian cockroach. Do you not vote for our candidates or our parties? Then, no doubt, according to the government, you are voting for undemocratic entities. In other words, only government officials are the administrative democrats. The media aren't aware enough? Do they not write as the government wishes? Then we'll call them disinformation, with all the consequences. Do you remember that government agent's action plan to fight misinformation? He wanted to put them right on trial. We like statistics, "we" I mean do the government like statistics? Then it's right, then it's right. You may recall a huge amount of statistics, analyses from the time of the covid, when the government grilled us on what we did wrong. We didn't like it, but actually, she was working with the data, working with the statistics, we weren't questioning them, and we were explaining. But beware, if the government does not like statistics, it will uncompromisingly discredit them, at the highest level - Eurostat, the European Statistical Office and the Czech Statistical Office. But I am convinced that this time the government has pulled a string, specifically the Minister of Industry, but unfortunately I must say, with the great support of the Prime Minister. Statistics aren't boring. It is a science that works with quantitative evaluation of properties of mass phenomena and processes. It's based, as we all know, on data collection and their analysis, which we may not like. We can discuss this, I understand everything, but the prerequisite for any relevant discussion of statistical data and analyses is that the person will understand what data collection and the subsequent organisation of this data are based on. And that is the saddest part, because our ministers and, unfortunately, the Prime Minister show that they cannot only understand elementary energy mathematics, that they cannot manage the economy, but that they do not understand economics either - in other words, they cannot understand the basic statistical message, unfortunately they are jumping on the rhetoric of social networks and instead of explaining themselves in an incredible way, for example, the disinformation scene, which is very happy about these government statements. Anyone who wants to question something in the future in terms of the claims of independent authorities has been smeared. There are no surprising messages from the Czech Statistical Office and Eurostat, the Energy Statistical Office. Eurostat just followed up on what he actually said here six months ago, and I have to remind you. In the first half of 2022, the data referred to the fact that the Czech Republic, according to Eurostat, is the second worst in electricity prices through purchasing power and fourth in absolute prices. It was similar to the gas, that's not the most important thing right now. And I understand or understood that in the middle of last year, the government did not like it very much, but to her honor I must say that the government of Petr Fiala did not question Eurostat at that time either, the Czech Statistical Office did not question it, only Minister Síkela used a classical Síkelovsky excuse: it was all Havlíček's fault, the fall of Bohemia Energy. Well, it's political rhetoric, in fact, it's nonsense. The energyists smiled over it, because oddly enough, the fall of Bohemia Energy, when we look at it, had a paradoxically positive effect on the prices of users or customers of Bohemia Energy, who had to switch to another supplier. But we could talk a lot about that here. But in that time it was enough in a way, people calmed down a little bit. Unfortunately, what is sad is that this lie has been believed by government officials, and even worse, no one has come and explained to Prime Minister Fial that this is complete nonsense and that the data presented by Eurostat are based on something completely different, of course on annual growth and on a particular sample that is being worked with. Since then, the Czech Statistical Office has been serving the public regularly every month, but of course the government, data and data have been warning. It has been warning all over last year and has grazed towards the end of last year, when the month after month appeared that one of the reasons for incredibly rising inflation in the Czech Republic is energy prices and that they are completely out of control. Let me just give you one example. Growth in energy prices for the eleventh month of 2022 in annual gas comparison 140 percent. These are official data of the Czech Statistical Office. The government was calm as a turtle. Of course, all this was due to the fact that it failed to take adequate energy measures during 2022. When we came up with them in the spring, later in the summer, the government usually laughed at us and kept saying that we would find a common European solution. Do you remember the words of Minister Síkela? He kept saying that he would leave it in the market, that the market would handle it. Well, August came along, and we saw that there's no European solution, and there's no market to deal with it, and we're totally screwed when I have to say it like that. Simply and simply, energy prices went completely out of control, and suddenly it was discovered that nothing was prepared at all. While other countries in Europe had already either prepared or even launched a price cap, they forgave payments for renewable resources and so on and so on. At the time it almost cost him a seat as Minister Síkela, his agenda went away, it went to the Office of the Government, where, fortunately, people who began to work quickly with it, but unfortunately under a lot of time pressure. They didn't perform a complete miracle in 2022, so something really started to happen at the end of the year, then the ceiling was made, but it didn't apply until 2023. In other words, late or not - energy measures in 2022. The year-on-year comparison for the Fialův Government, as Eurostat and the Czech Structural Authority have shown, has undoubtedly also affected the fact that, at the end of 2021, we, as Babišův's government, reduced energy VAT to zero. The result is that Eurostat showed catastrophic figures in 2022 during the second half of the year, unfortunately one of the worst, namely others in electricity, even the first worst or the worst in gas prices. But what's most important isn't whether we're the very last or the third from the end or the fifth from the end. To tell you the truth, no one's gonna buy anything here, so we can grow up in the House or between the political parties. More importantly, people see their electricity and gas prices rise year on year. They don't really need any extra statistics to do that. [[15.20 hours]] But speaking of data, it's absolutely relevant that it's still on the same data sample. Yes, we can discuss that different countries send different Eurostat data packages. So I wouldn't be here to be a little objective, maybe it's just that we're the very last, maybe it's not really, maybe we're the third or fifth since the end, because really each country is sending a little different data. But the important thing is that it's watched six months after six months on the same sample, which means the methodology is the same, so it's absolutely relevant what the increase is, and that's important. And the increase, or the trend of growth, is deadly to the Fialův government. Interestingly, no one has questioned that in the past. No one came up with the fact that between 2020 and 2021, on the very same data collection principle, we were one of the best, we were in the best group of the European Union in terms of growth, or rather, in this case, I am not growing energy prices, and only now that the government doesn't like it is suddenly wrong. In any case, in this mess, the Prime Minister had a whole range of ways to deal with it. He could have admitted that price growth in our country was extreme and that this was one of the causes of inflation, which, of course, he did not want to do. Okay, he might have gotten a little out of it politically. He could have accepted the results presented by Eurostat - in fact, there is nothing to not recognise - and explain that it does not have to correspond to absolute prices, there I would partly agree, and that the order is not the most important. For example, he could have gone on the path of further excuses à la Minister Síkela or he could have fired him, which would have solved a lot. But he could argue with, like, budget savings. We could have disagreed with that, we could have said that if the energy adjustments and the measures were made, it would have hit the budget, and we could have talked about how it would have affected him and whether the prices for those producers should have been set, which would not have affected so much the budget, but the profitability of the energy operators. That would be a normal political discussion. I would take all that, whether we agree or disagree. But the Prime Minister did the worst he could. He stood in the same line, himself and his government, with energy companies, and questioned both the national and European Energy Statistical Offices. Yes, in one line with the companies allowed by this government - I mean the energy manufacturer - to become rich in an incredible way and to make absolutely extraordinary profits. Thanks to wrong politics, underestimating the situation, maybe due to clientelistic pressures, it's hard to say, but let history judge that. The important thing is that these companies have seen incredible resources, and they are logically defending themselves, those companies. But they can't be surprised, it's normal, they're private or semi-private entities, and companies can use marketing rhetoric to show their customers that their prices aren't nearly that high. But finally, when we look at their profits, it says it all. I don't blame these companies. I blame the Prime Minister for standing next to them and for using practically the same arguments. At this point, he has put a trump card in the hands of all those who will want to challenge the claims of independent authorities at any time. And I consider it extremely dangerous and even more dangerous than our own state of energy in terms of prices, and we are so poor. That is why I have decided to propose the inclusion of this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u15	The next is signed with priority right by President Radim Fiala, followed by Mrs Věra Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in this request for a change of programme, I would like to address the point that concerns the European Union, because the European Union, with the support of the Fialův Government, has approved a marked increase in petrol, diesel or coal. Last week, the Member States of the European Union, including the Czech Republic, represented by a representative of the government, Petr Fiala of the ODS, finally approved another package of mandatory climate standards, which will start to apply from 2027 and will bring a marked price increase of petrol, diesel or coal for Czech citizens and companies. Make no mistake, 2027 is around the corner. Although it seems to us that it is far away, it will mean another billion crowns that we will pay for a red-green ideology called Green Deal, which is completely useless. The Czech Government agreed with all the proposals submitted. The essence of these new European Union measures is the future senseless charging of emissions from heating buildings and road transport. These new emission allowances will cost a litre of petrol or diesel approximately 3 crowns. We know that emission allowances are already used in industry, it meant an increase in energy, it meant an increase in everything, of all the resources that are produced in industry, because, of course, those companies have to count emission allowances, which are owned by most of the different pension funds of the US, Finnish, German and similar, which collect huge money not only from the Czech industry but also from other industries. I think it's become securities that have nothing to do with the environment anymore. It's just a bargain of speculation that makes everything more expensive to us. And since there's never enough, the money and the money they're pulling out of us needs to be pulled out of us, and that's going to be the money that's going to be paid for driving or heating up your house and all that. So it's going to be the emission allowances that we people who live here are going to pay for drowning, for driving a car and all that. These new emission allowances will cost a liter of petrol or diesel about 3 crowns, and I think that will be the least. The most dramatic will be the increase in the prices of black coal for domestic heating, where an increase of at least 40 per cent can be expected. So the Němec are shutting down nuclear power plants that are relatively clean, producing clean energy, and because they're closing, there's a shortage of energy on the market, and of course the price will rise, as we see now, with black coal by 40 percent, so the energy won't actually be. There's just no energy at that time. And what I've always made fun of is that there will be a light on Monday and Wednesday in Brno, it's starting to be a real vision, because we don't want much carbon here, too much CO2, it would be a crazy disaster, so we'd rather not drown, light, ride, we'd be nothing to go along with, as I say, a red-green European ideology. Well, don't count me in. In parallel with the increase in electricity and gas prices it is another liquidation measure for Czech households and a direct proof of the economic and social harm of the European Union. At the same time, this is a direct result of the gradual implementation of the European Union's Green Deal plan, which I spoke about, which was supported in the past by the Czech Republic by the Czech Prime Minister Babiš of the ANO movement and is fully actively and openly supported by the current Fialův Government. In the opinion of the SPD movement, the Czech Republic should not implement these harmful measures into its legal system and, on the contrary, we should endeavour to adopt a law on a general national referendum that would enable citizens to vote on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union, which is proving increasingly necessary and more timely. It's all we have left if we can't drown if we can't do other things, because we're gonna pay for everything. We were kidding about it being an air tax, but it's basically here. We will pay for everything we do, and I think it will mean big problems, financial problems, for all citizens of the Czech Republic, not only the Czech Republic, but it will also mean the deindustrialisation of the Czech Republic, because those companies will be gone, there will be no existence here and it will not be possible to produce so that those companies will be competitive on the global market, but especially the Asian market. So God be with us and the evil be gone. Thank you and I would like to add this, Madam President, to the first item today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u17	Yes, I'm aware. Thank you. Mrs Adámková, who has three applications, will now appear, and then Mr Novák will follow, so that he knows he can prepare himself. Madam, you will always have five minutes each. We know how it works, so I'm just reminding you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you for three points, I'll be brief, because I'm sure these are points that are very important. One I won't forgive, it's like testing resistance to reality, and that's the classification of transplant law, House press 162, that is, voluntary donors of bone marrow and haematopoietic organs. Very briefly, maybe just for the audience, I'll sum up that I've really given this place so many times that I don't even count the number of times. This is an injustice that reality has shown us. We didn't know there could be such a thing. And just for the record. Voluntary organ donors in case they are hospitalized, which is actually everyone but these, receive full wages. Bone marrow donation is a highly moral act. It's individually really anonymous, the guy doesn't know in most cases who gets his sample, and they're injected into the sternum by experts. Complications are really very thin, which is why they weren't even thought about in the law. Only three years ago, it turned out that we were missing something there, and it turned out that this person, who had a festering complication, ended up in a few weeks of incompetence, actually only got his disability, which, of course, is unfair. So here I am asking for the House press 162. He's completely, in my opinion, uncomplicated, okay. I repeat, and I don't want this to happen to anyone you need to reach into an anonymous bone marrow donor registry, because I want to assure you that acute leukemia doesn't choose, and even a wide family doesn't have to find a donor in their midst, so you can vote between life and death, and it's not a pose. I would very much like the health professionals in each of the committees here in the Chamber of Deputies to explain to their colleagues on this subject what is going on, although frankly, according to your interest, I consider that I will not succeed again, but I will not, because acute leukemia can also make children ill, and unfortunately, they are dying, but you still pretend that this is not a problem. So I beg you very much to revise your position, to include this point, which is definitely not political, but unfortunately can bring death with it. In case I get the honor and be ranked, then please take the fixed points as the first point. Thank you. The second point - I would go on coherently, because we really want this negotiation to lead somewhere. This is about the inclusion of health-social issues. Let me put a little more into the situation here. You all know very well the hospital's long-term sick, nursing homes and homes with specialized care, but beware, we are getting into a problem that is long-term, just not dealing with it. It's true that the time of the covide moved this far away. We have to deal with whether this person is for social reasons, or practically healthy, or ill with no deterioration, he only needs the care, or is there because his condition is so variable that he is no longer able to take care of himself and needs the care all day - not on an emergency bed in the hospital, I warn you, there is clear, when someone breaks his leg in the neck or has appendicitis, we will not deal with these things there. But then these people can't take care of themselves, they don't all have a family, they can't just stay in their environment and we're getting into a problem that's more or less the daily bread of these institutions, and that's what's social and what's health. In most cases, of course, they have contracted certain tasks, they also have a doctor who, in certain days, goes to a given facility, but not in such a way that this is completely without question. So, given that our population is getting older, we will still need this care, which is really a combination of health and social, we will need to find a border here, which will still be covered by health insurance, which will no longer be covered by health insurance, because so far we have done a little bit that covid has beaten everything, but it is not, and this time will catch up with us, because of course the resources are not endless, and really sick people are mostly in old age, which, on the one hand, pleases us - a longer life span, on the other hand, we must prepare ourselves to the fact that these fellow citizens will need care and care combined, that is health and social. So I'm asking you to place this point, let's open this point, let's talk about it, because more heads know more so that we're ready for that time and not chase again, like we sometimes do, a cat by the tail, because we're not going to run away from this one. I'm warning you, we're not going to run away from this issue, because she's already quite tense. You know very well that beds are very difficult to find somewhere for these people, waiting and it is really unsustainable. So please include the health-social issue, in case I get the honor, as the second point after the fixed points. And then I have the third point that I'm asking for an assignment. This is a new point, it is about maintaining the quality of health care in the Czech Republic. It is an issue that concerns not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and it is very necessary to open up this issue, to talk about it, to define clearly our definitions, to define our options, to show how we will further build on this issue. You know very well that for weeks, months, we've had a shortage of medicines for our patients, but that's not the point I'd say today. I've been meaning to include him a few times. The issue is difficult, it will be necessary to talk about it, because probably deus ex machina or miraculous Aladin will not come to solve this for the Czech Republic. So please, let's not pretend that the issue isn't, let's talk about it, and maybe we can come up with a solution that's going to be quite quick and viable. But what has happened repeatedly in recent weeks, they are not even solutions for investigations and are not medical devices, and here we can no longer say that it is just that other viruses or other bacterial deposits have arrived, but we really need to focus on the trends that we can expect in the final way, and I would expect here, of course, the expression of all the ministers involved, how they are already speaking together and how they want to address this issue in the future. In the event that this is again listed as the third point after the fixed points, I would like to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u19	Thank you, Madame, and Mr Marek Novák is now in office - I do not see him here. Mr Kubíček is next, and he is not here either. Mr Hubert Lang is now in office and Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to include a point on the agenda of today's meeting, which I called the Explanation of Prime Minister Petr Fiala's statement at the National Pirate Forum, and I would like to include this point as the first point after the fixed points today. What's this about? I originally wanted to interpel Mr. absent Prime Minister Petr Fiala, because the statements that were made on the Pirates forum, where he was one of the guests, are very strange, and I would like to quote some things here, and I would like to open this point here, if necessary, to clarify some things. Prime Minister Petr Fiala appeared at the Pirates National Forum as one of the visiting speakers, when he performed a certain recapitulation of the current five-calice government and in a speech, and this is interesting, he recapitulated the achievements of the government and called the Pirates a solid and important part of these achievements. Again, the Prime Minister believes that his government is very successful, and the pirát are a solid and important part of this government's success. [[15.40 hours]] The Prime Minister further stated that it is very important to fight within democratic parties in the government against populism and extremism, which, according to the Fiala, did not end in elections, but because of the crises that the government is successfully facing, or even this extremism and populism is getting stronger and more dangerous. Here we're referring to the fact that we're still hearing something about populism and extremism. I really want to know what the Prime Minister means. He answers that with other statements. The broad government coalition, whose cooperation in Fiala's speech was further appreciated, presented itself as an alternative to populism and extremism in the previous year's elections. If I am to understand that we, now in opposition, whether it is the YES movement or the SPD, are probably populists and extremists in the eyes of Prime Minister Fiala, and Petr Fiala drew attention to these accents, pointing out that the elections did not disappear: "Extremism and populism were defeated together in the elections - which, of course, did not disappear. The current crises are getting bolder and the dangers of populists and extremists are rising. The one who is now brazenly offering people unrealistic, harmful, but pleasing and simple answers is, in a sense, in the advantage ahead of us" - he is probably thinking of five coalitions - "who are fully aware of the weight of the responsibility of politics in a democratic country and in a debate and in a rational search for this right solution we are trying to offer the right path for this country." That means we have some kind of right path here, and we who criticize the current government, we don't like certain things, so I guess we have the wrong path. It is according to the Fiala, and I am coming to the conclusion, "a duel between democracy and populism. It is this dispute, the dispute between populists and democratic policies, the dispute about the nature and direction of the Czech Republic, that will continue, and that is what we must prepare for. Each of us must contribute to protect the Republic better, especially from those who do not hesitate to sacrifice for our own personal benefit." And in the finals, there's a beautiful phrase: "Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I am very pleased that we are with the pirát and with the other members of the five-calice on the same wave, and I would even say that we are on the same ship." So I'd like to say that even for Titanic, which had already been sunk, in its essence in the first class, the orchestra was playing all the way upstairs, they were all soaked, their feet were in the water, but they were doing it like it was going on. This is how I feel about Prime Minister Fiala at the House of Pirates or at the National Pirates Forum, and it seems to me that his comments there are entirely from reality. Therefore, I would like to ask you to give us a chance to open this point here, and although we have only one minister here from all over the government, and precisely because there will be no interpelation again on Thursday, so I would very much like you to support this point, we have included it and we have been able to talk about these statements, from my point of view of scandalous, unresponsive reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, I have a record. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is now signed in and Mr Kobza will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u22	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming a tradition that I am still proposing the same point on the agenda here, and I hope that I will be successful today and you will approve that point for me. Yes, it concerns the situation around Štiřín Castle, and since I have already asked the Chamber of Deputies here several times, and again there will not be an interpelation on Thursday, and I do not have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister directly, because the answers of Minister Stanjura and Minister Lipavský did not satisfy me, I have to take this opportunity and I would like to place a point entitled Government strategy on the sale of the remaining state property of Štiřín Castle. As I said before, the castle Štiřín is the best preserved monument of the Czech Republic and was in the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has been designated as unnecessary property and is directed from the Ministry of Finance to the Office of State representation in property matters, where it will, or maybe already, be offered for use by other state organisations, and if the candidate is not found, then it is directed to direct sale. I would like to point out again and point out that this is the best-kept memory that has been used as a convention centre. The area has a large park and golf course, and in addition it is located in close proximity to the capital and highway D1, and the state invested considerable funds into it. At present, the economic activity of this organization, castle Štiřín, has been cancelled and the whole building is closed. Staff are on notice, according to my information, they're at home. It is all the more surprising that the director of this facility, with the blessing of Minister Lipavský, hired a private company for the maintenance of a golf course worth CZK 2,890,000, even though employees could do this work, for a sum not higher than CZK 1,5 million. This is related to other questions such as whether the company will use the machinery of Štiřín Castle - it seems that it does not seem to have its own, whether it will pay for the rent of these funds, how the machinery will be financed for tens of millions of crowns and how fuel will be paid. Another question is - and it is much more serious - why high financial amounts were invested from the State budget in 2022 for operation and investment, when it was already clear that The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will no longer want to manage the castle Štiřín. Now, let's sum up the investments. It was a reconstruction of the castle terrace - one could probably agree with that, for the preservation of the monument - but also a parking system of CZK 6.5 million. But what is even more striking is the reconstruction of two kitchens and their equipment with top gastronomic equipment in the amount of CZK 18 million. This contract was concluded and the work was handed over and classified two months before the closing of the castle Štiřín. Why did these investments, especially in the kitchens, take place when it was declared last year that Štiřín Castle would not be used anymore? If Štiřín Castle passes into private hands, these matters are given a different dimension. And why did I call this point the Government's strategy for selling surplus state property? Because there have already been indications about the historical building of the Czech Post on Jindřišská Street. It was mentioned by the Home Secretary that he wouldn't fight back if this property were sold. Also, President Adamová mentioned here that perhaps Budvar might be able to sell, that she would be okay with it. And that is why I ask the Government what is its strategy regarding the treatment of the necessary state property of the Czech Republic? I ask you to include this point as the first point in today's negotiations, and I ask those members from the government coalition who are taking action around the castle of Štiřín - and that they are, because they are asking me - to support the inclusion of this point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u23	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Mrs Lenka Dražilová is now signed in and Mr Robert Stržínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, fellow Members, I am asking you to include a point called A solution to non-payment of pensions. I would like to point out at the outset that there should be agreement across the political spectrum on the inclusion of this point. The ongoing problems of the Labour Office or the Czech Social Security Administration are not only a political problem but, above all, a problem for people who come into contact with these authorities. Within this point, I would like to ask that we put aside our political jerseys and speak really factually and look for solutions to this problem here. In addition to the busy work offices, which we are talking about repeatedly, it has proved that the Czech Social Security Administration has new problems with its functioning. It does not have time to settle applications for retirement because the officials had accumulated a huge number of early retirement applications at the end of 2022. [[15.50 hours]] And this problem continues. For the sake of illustration, in the last quarter of last year, 100,000 new pension applications were submitted, with the usual number for the whole year around 200,000 applications according to the Czech Social Security Administration. In other words, compared to the same period of 2021, an early pension application was filed by almost twice as many people, and we all know how it happened, I do not want to mention it. Not to mention, of course, requests for education, which were over 40,000. And to make matters worse, early retirement applications continue. They continue because Minister Jurečka has already announced that early pensions will be disadvantaged again since autumn, so we can probably imagine what this will do to Czech citizens again. In other words, the problem of a large number of new requests due to the Minister's poor communication continues. I'm sure people write to you in difficult situations. The problem is that, while the Act provides for a 90-day period for proceedings for pension applications, it extends by a period of possible examination of decisive facts, but at present the average time of processing is much, much longer, and even so, I must recognise that the Czech administration has already taken in anticipation of the complicated situation an organisational-personal measure to help it, or to help it cope with this surge. But here I am on a fundamental problem that has long been underestimated. Like the Labour Office's agenda, pension management is a highly specialised activity that really requires deep expertise. In other words, the idea that you just have to move people from one agenda to another is really unrealistic and it's kicking a wedge in. In any case, the reality today is that some pension seekers are waiting for their payment over a quarter of a year, and this is a critical situation especially in cases where seniors have relied on a pension from the state and suddenly find themselves without money. Many of these people have already turned to the Ombudsman, especially because they have failed with the urgency of the Czech administration itself. Instead of those 90 days, there are cases where people are waiting for 133 or even 140 days, and that is up to 50 days longer than the law allows. No way, and I would like to stress this, I do not want to blame the director of the Czech Social Security Administration and his employees, because, as I have convinced myself, they are really doing their utmost. While in February over 15,000 applications were made, in March it was already about 22,000 requests. Their work is incredibly demanding, and it is certainly not enough to just thank them. By including this point, I would like to hear from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs whether and how these people will be rewarded for their superior work and how the problem will be solved in the future, because it is unacceptable for citizens who pay properly not to receive from the State the services that belong to them. I would like to include this point today after the already firmly placed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u25	That means the first point, after already firmly classified, okay? Thank you, Madame. And I will now ask Mr Stržínek to wait, because before that Mr Kobza was signed up, to whom I apologise. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u26	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that two more items be included in the agenda. The first one is House press number 16, which is the proposal of the SPD group to amend the Act on State Holidays, on other holidays and on important days and on working quiet days. We have the beginning of May and we remember the events of World War II - the liberation of Czechoslovakia, the liberation of Prague, the end of the war, and therefore I think it is quite shameful that we do not yet have a state holiday that would include March 15th, which is the Day of the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the German army, as the Day of Memorial of the victims of the German occupation of the Czech countries. In addition, I would also like to propose a change in the sign of the important day of 18 June, from the present Day of the heroes of the second resistance to the Day of the heroes of the resistance against the German occupation of the Czech countries. The second proposal leads me to a sad experience with the level of education, because when you ask someone what happened on that date, 99 percent will not answer you. March 15, 1939 is the beginning of the most tragic stage in modern Czech history. The Czech State lost the last remnants of any state sovereignty that day, followed by its direct German military occupation and six-year period of targeted terror, the killing of citizens of the Czech countries, the total plundering of the Czech economy and enslavement of the Czech workforce, which clearly had genocidal features and character. I would just remind you that during the liberation of Czechoslovakia from this occupation, 139 918 Red Army soldiers lost their lives, 33 241 Romanian army soldiers, who unfortunately are often forgotten, and they really do not deserve it. 3,500 Czechoslovak soldiers and about 10,000 partisans and resistance soldiers died from the Czechoslovak army. 116 Američan and 79 Polák were also killed. It is therefore necessary to commemorate this anniversary today, when there is a reinterpretation, if not directly to rewrite history and relativize the guilt for World War II, and it is necessary to pay tribute to the victims of this regime, the victims of occupation and, at the same time, to all who have fought against it. When we see a campaign going on in public space, which is particularly trying to convince the young generation that the German occupation was just one of the historical episodes that hit us, and basically it wasn't so special, of course I feel deep regret, and I am ashamed that we are unable to explain to our children how it really was that Czech citizens, soldiers and civilians demonstrated extraordinary heroism and courage in the face of German occupation and German power both at home and abroad on war fronts, whether it was in various continents and in various anti-Nazi armies. So for that reason, I beg you to support my proposal, and I beg you to include it as the fifth item in today's agenda. Now, if you don't mind, Madam Vice-President, I would like to make a second motion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u27	Yes, you can continue, I'll turn on your time, your five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u28	Thank you politely. The second point I would like to include is House Press No. 13, which is the proposal of the SPD Group to amend Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. Specifically, it is a ban on the promotion and dissemination of hate ideologies, and not only a movement such as the one mentioned in that paragraph so far, which is our debt towards eliminating the lack of a valid form and regulation of a law that does not address the issue of public dissemination of ideologies promoting hatred for groups of persons on the basis of their race, gender, faith, nationality or other common characteristics. [[16.00 hours]] It is important to remember that there is currently a migration wave that, according to some data, is up to threefold compared to the one that took place here in 2016 and 2017, and we need to be prepared for these migrants to carry with them religions and ideologies that are not friendly and that are not at all compatible with our value structure, and we need to have prepared legislation to ensure that our institutions are able and justified to intervene, including legislation and our justice, in order not to follow the raid to the mosque on the Black Most, where it was the Tahíd book, which calls for hatred for young believers, when the court decided that it is not actually criminal, because Islam is neither a movement nor an ideology, but that it is a religion. So we have to keep in mind that this risk still exists here. The point is that, in fact, our proposal covers not only the ideologies that exist that we know, but also the ideologies that we do not know and which can yet arise, but at the same time gives, as I said, our authorities in criminal proceedings the power to intervene against them in this way. I would like to mention the names of the victims of Islamic terrorists, because we, the Czech Republic, also have our fallen, who had the bad luck that they were simply at the wrong time and at the wrong time in the wrong place. It was Petr Kořán, who was murdered by a Muslim attacker on July 24, 2005 in the Egyptian Sharm al-Shaichu, Ivo Žďárek, diplomat and ambassador, murdered in a terrorist attack by Islamists in Islamabad on September 20, 2008, Pavel Hrůza, murdered by the Islamic State in Libya, the exact date is unknown, it happened in 2016, Naďa Čižmárová, murdered by an Islamic terrorist in an attack by a truck in Berlin on December 19, 2016 on Christmas markets, Lenka Civínová, stabbed by an Islamic terrorist on July 14, 2017 in Hurghada, Egypt. I fear that this number may not be final, and it is essential that our institutions have enough legal instruments in their hands to intervene against anyone who wishes to challenge our values, our democracy, our humanitarian approaches to people, and that they are able, when someone calls for murder, to call for killing, to challenge people of other faith, other races, to intervene. Therefore, I ask you to support this proposal of mine, and I ask that it be included as the sixth proposal on the agenda for today's meeting. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u29	Also thank you, i.e. as the sixth point today. Mr Robert Stržínek is now in office and Mr Rais will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u30	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for a new point, which was originally on the agenda of the 35th meeting of the House under number 92. This is a proposal from the council of the Zlín Region to issue a law amending Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System and on the Amendment of Certain Acts as amended. This is the House Press 265 in the first reading. I propose to include this point as the first point today after the already fixed points. This is the legislative initiative of the Zlín Region. This is an important material that solves the responsibility of regions in case of incidents such as Vrbětice or recently a fire in Czech Switzerland, in relation to the provision of legal compensation for damage caused by IRS components in emergencies. The proposal responds to a completely non-systemic change made by Law No. 451/2020 Coll., effective from 1. 12. 2021, when an amendment to Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on IRS, and thus the informal procedure for the processing of compensation under the IRS Act has been completely changed. The Zlín Region has been working for a number of years to refine legislation as a result of the emergency situations it has dealt with in the past, at least in the area of compensation caused by the components of the integrated emergency rescue system. The experience gained, particularly in the case of Vrbětice, and the ways in which it has proved successful, has been reflected in the legislative initiative presented, led by an effort to make the process of handling the compensation on the part of the managing authorities more effective and thus facilitate the way of recovering claims from the victims. The legislative initiative is based on a simple rule. The state will cause damage to the IRS files, the state decides, the state pays. Support for the proposal of the Zlín Region was expressed by all regions, the Council of the Association of the Regions of the Czech Republic and its expert committee. I have been asked and also assigned to discuss this point on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which is why I am now doing so repeatedly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Rais will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u32	Madam President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Let me address the issue of the budget, namely higher education institutions, or Chapter 333, the Ministry of Education, not only the drawing, but especially the increase. I would like to state the reasons now. The total average monthly gross wage of higher education assistants, researchers and assistants is about 20 to 36% lower than the average wage wage with higher education in the Czech Republic. The average gross monthly wage in these categories represented around 103 to 128 per cent of the average wage sector in the Czech Republic, which is relatively even smaller than the original government commitment to ensure teacher salaries in regional education to 130 per cent of the average wage. And so, as I have said here several times, the government has never done so - I mean, the current government. It's... Thus, the salaries of teachers in higher education cease to be competitive even with those of teachers in regional education. We have a lot of information about this from the media, where people not only think, but they leave directly, especially from the humanities, towards regional education. This trend has continued since 2020 and is completely critical and unsustainable in terms of competitiveness in the labour market, especially for young university teachers. In the claim tariff components, the situation is even more critical. Basically, tariffs are even 26 to 51 percent lower than the average of the tariff components of the Czech Republic is the wage sector with higher education. These data are from the statistical office. It is strange that even the category of university professors is below this national comparison, again by about -20 percent. I could go on with the numbers like this. [[16.10 hours]] I believe, for the reasons that I have said, that it is necessary to address the budget in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, on the one hand, on the other, and in particular the question of salary. I therefore propose to include that point as the first point after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mr Radek Koten will now appear and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place the first point on the agenda of today's meeting entitled Control of contaminated Ukrainian grain imported into the Czech Republic and, by extension, products from it. Now let me briefly justify this proposal. I was here last week intersecting both the Prime Minister of the absent and present Minister of Nekula and it can be said that the results of the checks presented by the Minister here were somewhat inconclusive, because if we are based on the amount of grain that was found and labelled as contaminated in Slovakia for example, there was a total of 1,500 000 kilograms of this grain found and tested, and now that we imagine that roughly similar quantities, possibly larger quantities were imported into the Czech Republic, the number of checks that could reveal contaminated grain is somewhat small for my taste, because the Minister here said something about 24 or 25 checks, which I think is really little for the whole Czech Republic. I think that the responsibility for the citizens of the Czech Republic, whether they are eating safe food here or, on the contrary, defective food, is quite high. And I'm wondering which one of you colleagues is getting up in the morning, putting on some of that bread, buttering it, honey and all that, and he's convinced that the bread is safe, or when you're rubbing snacks for the kids at school in the morning, so if that's how you think about it. Because if you take how many flour is spilled from that amount of grain, it will be 1.5 million or 3 million kilograms of grain bags, which are different after hypermarkets, and no one is able to even trace the origin of the flour at that time, because deliberately the strings mark it on the packaging quite confusingly, because in Slovakia, if it was ground in Slovakia, so well, there is Slovakia's manufacturer, yes, but from what grain it was ground, it will not find out from the bag. So I think we should talk about this here, because the danger that we're eating defective grain here, and of course the products from it, and that it's coming into our food chain, because we don't even know if this grain or this wheat is used in agriculture, in our Czech agriculture as feed, and then, of course, it would have gotten into the next food chain, as it would have been in the eggs, it would have been in the chicken, it would have been basically everywhere. And that lax approach and that number of checks really seems very, very small to me. So I think that in this plenary Members should have the opportunity to comment on this, so they should also ask the competent minister, who should be there. Which is why I think it would be good to put it first, because we eat bread here every day. Everyone, as we are here, so we go to some breakfast or dinner, and we eat it to the crowd and so on, and citizens who eat and make snacks daily for their children at school should really be sure that they don't eat contaminated crops that are banned by pesticides that have huge health consequences. So thank you, and I ask you to include this point as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will now appear and Mrs Berenika Peštová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to propose a point entitled Increase of direct pedagogical activity. In its programming statement, the government had education as one of the priorities. It was a shot in the dark again, or cheating a customer, I don't know what to call it. Lately, all the proposals that fall, which flash, are really such blank shots for me, and when I think about these ideas, if they were reforms that would aim to increase the quality of our teaching, I wouldn't have a problem raising my hand for it and supporting it. Unfortunately, everything that's been going on lately has only one goal: to save money at any cost. But we must realise that we are saving on our children, and therefore we are saving on the future of our state, and for me it is something completely unacceptable. First here we had a promise of 130 percent guarantee, in the end only for teachers. We know it's not gonna be like that. And now the last thing I have is this point, the last thing that flashed in the news, is an increase in direct pedagogical activity. It sounds like no problem at first sight. At present, the teacher has 22 hours of direct teaching activity per week and should increase to maybe 27. But we have to realize that this is purely a time spent behind the department. If we want a teacher who takes his profession deadly seriously, he has to prepare. That means I, as a physicist, will spend a great deal of time preparing tools for everything to work out the way it's supposed to. If we increase direct teaching activity, the result will be the only one. The goal is to save up some, if I remember correctly, about 20 billion crowns. But how will we save? Only by increasing the direct teaching activity of a particular group of teachers will we be able to release a certain group of teachers and save on their salaries. This means that the teachers will be left with a salary, they will only increase their direct teaching activities, they will learn more, and therefore the teachers will need less. Maybe someone will explain to me that it's different. That's me with my economic knowledge, which isn't at university level, of course, that's how I figured it out. Second thing. If we look - we keep looking at the West as our great example - to the west of us educators are treated as highly qualified workers and they are not wasted, their energy and their strength. When you marry a Czech teacher, the Czech teacher is such a whore for everything. The Czech teacher supervises the hallways, in the school cafeteria, I could continue this way. When we look to the west, to the most advanced states, there the educator actually teaches and to all the necessary things that a high school student can easily do, the assistants and teachers are really just teaching. If that were the case with us, then I can imagine increasing direct teaching activities to 27 hours. But if we want those teachers to do what is typical of the Czech lands, those teachers will just go crazy. A regular teacher who has been trained for several school years has been mentally exhausted a month before the holidays. If you put an extra five hours on them, I guarantee you that the lack of psychologists will show up even more, because a large percentage of the teaching corps will simply collapse before the holidays. Please, I'm speaking from practice. I don't have anything pulled out of my finger, based on 25 years of experience. I was in that teaching choir, and I know how it works. So I would like to repeat, once again, as the first point in today's negotiations to raise direct pedagogical activity, so that we can talk about whether this Chamber of Deputies is really interested in our education flourishing, or we are simply interested in buying numbers and save at any cost even in areas where it is simply not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u37	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mrs Berenika Peštová will now appear and Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u38	Hello, thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to load a point in the Czech Government's position to adopt legislation in the European Union. We have so much trouble here that we are adopting legislation in the European Union in the form of regulations. It is no longer a normal transposition of directives or a revision of directives, but we are breaking through the regulation and we are putting in this regulation things that are not supposed to be there at all. Despite the regulation, we are trying to do a revision of the directive in quotation marks, but we are also breaking into directives that have nothing to do with it. Furthermore, what is very common here is that the regulation that passes through Parliament, then the trialogue, then it is approved and we must implement immediately, so we lack delegated acts here. Delegated acts are announced two to three years after the regulation comes into force, which is a big problem. We have not seen this problem with just Euro 7, we have seen this problem, for example, with F-gases and other and other regulations, which spits out the European Commission, which has apparently gone crazy lately, because this is one regulation after another. But the other problem is that there are things in those regulations that are not consulted with individual commissions. So it's exactly what we just found in the F-gases that we've been banned from 1. 1. 2024 in the commercial sector use refrigerators on F-gas, instead we use media like carbon dioxide or ammonia, you know as ammonia, or propane and from 1. 1. 2025 for households, so, of course, we also got a ban, which, thanks to the European Union plenary, when they found a compromise there was also a ban for inhalers, that is, for people who are asthmatic, allergic, for people who have cardiovascular diseases and use these inhalers to get first aid - so we also got a ban for these inhalers, and that is only because they did not deal with a pharmaceutical agency that would tell them that there is simply no adequate replacement for F-gas, so they saved it in the Parliament of the European Union. And I would love to, and I've been here and I've been reading in the various committees, reading the resolution when we tried to commit our government so that our government would act and act. This means that I asked her to find agreement with the individual Member States to stop these nonsense regulations until delegated acts are known. For the people who are watching it, a delegated act, it's kind of like our decree. So we're gonna take something in there, and the decrees will be two to three years after it comes into effect. Unfortunately, I expected that these resolutions, which I tried to push through in the various committees, would be recorded by members of the coalition, that it would be the members of the ODS who would say that they did not, because they were the ones who cried out for eight years, that what Brusel here would say to us! So instead, it was read by an opposition MP, and the paradox is that it was the ODS that cut it for me. So I would love to read this point first, and I would like it if it wasn't just the Minister of Legislation Šalomoun, who I respect immensely, that he has the stamina, the sicflay and he sits here all the time, but that our government would stand up to it and tell me what position he will take and how he will protect our Czech country against the green rubbish that is being loaded there, seems to me to be on the treadmill. So I want this as point one, and I'd like to hear the position of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr Richard Brabec is now signed in and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Before I give the honourable Member the floor, I shall read the apologies. He apologizes to Věra Adámková from 18.30 to 22.15 and from 18.30 to 22.45 for working reasons, Andrej Babiš all day - working reasons, Horák Jiří from 18 to 22 hours - personal reasons, Krejza Karel whole day - foreign trip, Metnar Lubomír whole day - working reasons, Špičák Julius from 15.30 working reasons and Wenzl Milan from 18.00 for health reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to refer to the topic that our president, Mrs Alena Schillerová, opened here this morning, at the same time as the shadow secretary of finance. I've said the subject many times here, and the reason I'm doing it again, there are more reasons, but the main thing is two: firstly, that it's an issue that I think has already exceeded the limit of pain for this government, and the limit of pain, as we know, is quite high, and secondly, that I've never actually received a proper answer to it. I don't think I'm gonna get it today. Since so far he is here, as has already been said, I also appreciate that Minister Šalomoun is sitting here, although I don't know if he has the sicflay, but I think the reason is that he pulled a short match in the morning, and that he must be here with us, while the rest of the government is exploring how to do it with the state budget, or with his deficit. And it is the state deficit and its size or state budget deficit and its size that is closely linked to the problem that I am reopening here and which has already been recorded by the media after these x-months, but what about the media, the government council or the National Economic Council of the Government, or whatever the institution's name is. In any case, it has already reached a level where it is not just the voice of a caller in the desert, lonely, but it is perhaps already an issue that is perceived as significant, and the issue is an extraordinary item of CZK 50 billion, which this year would have some completely mysterious, unique and undiscovered and unexplained way of getting into the state budget. But as we all know, he's not gonna get there because he's not from where and he's not how. These two reasons should be enough for the Minister of Finance to think seriously about why the amount got there, but it probably hasn't happened yet, because the amount is still there in the revenues of the Ministry of the Environment and its 50 billion is huge, even within the state budget of thousands of billions of crowns or hundreds of billions of crowns, which are there, of course, or in trillions if we take GDP, but 50 billion simply isn't a bagel on the store. So I see this as a fundamental problem in the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Finance and its implementation. I have said here several times that as the Minister of the Environment, I would never dare come to committee, and certainly not at the plenary of this great House, nor would I be allowed to do so if I had such a crazy idea that I would come up with a budget where I would not know where more than half of the proposed revenue from the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of the Environment would come from. I just can't imagine, I would rightly be driven by a fucking step, at least from the Environment Committee, so I wouldn't even make it to plenary. [[16.30 hours]] But this happened really, and so we're here in a situation where this amount is completely torn out of the joint, literally sprained, it's nonexistent, it's sucked out of the finger, and it still exists. But we do not get to the point, because the same amount is in revenue for 2024 and 2025, so we have here, colleagues, colleagues, 150 billion crowns planned by the government, the Minister of Finance, for this year, next year and over, which cannot really exist, because neither the European Investment Bank nor the European Commission has approved them, nor do we have national legislation for this. So that I would like to propose a point on the Reality of fulfilling the chapter of the Ministry of Environment in this year's budget, as a second point on the already fixed points for today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u41	Thank you. Reality of fulfillment of the chapter of the Ministry of Environment for the year 2023. It is now Mr Igor Hendrych who will prepare Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u42	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies under the title of Reducing the number of sentenced in prison in the Czech Republic. As I heard, on 24 April there was a seminar or a round table which, at least as I heard it, was devoted to a topic that should be devoted to reducing people in the execution of punishment in the Czech Republic. I consider this to be a very commendable achievement, I was one of those who acknowledged that this issue got into the government statement, both in the original and in the subsequent revised one, because the Czech Republic is actually facing quite serious problems in this area. One of them is a high recurrence of crime, another of which is the high number of people sentenced to the population in the Czech Republic per capita, in which we could really say almost premieres, we are one of the worst in the European Union and throughout Europe, a large Europe, and then it is also a problem of basically already overcrowded capacity of Czech prisons. On the one hand, we have a government statement to reduce the number of convicted persons, but when we look at real numbers, the number of convicted persons has risen by more than 600 people over the last year, so basically this issue has started to be dealt with in some way so far and, on the other hand, the problem is getting a little deeper. Representatives of the Prison Service of the Czech Republic were invited to the seminar, representatives of the Czech Republic's Probation and Mediation Service, nonprofit organizations dealing with this issue, and there were also academics, or representatives of the academic community who dealt with this issue. Unfortunately, no one was invited from the opposition at all. What is even worse, in the long run, is largely ignored by the government coalition of cooperation with the institutions set up on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is a subcommittee on prisons or subcommittee on socially excluded localities and the inclusion of people after the execution of the sentence. I really don't understand. And then one last point, why I think we should discuss this here today, is that, according to the information I have, this issue in the government coalition basically narrows down to the problem of changing or regulating criminal law in this area, but at least the two important factors that cause this problem are ignored, and that is how and whether effective treatment programs are in the execution of punishment and how the so-called institutional support for social inclusion of people after the execution of punishment works. If the government coalition were communicating with us on this matter, I would not be standing here today seeking to include this point. Given that this is not the case, I propose this point formally under number 2 today, today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u43	Thank you, too. Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will now appear and prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u44	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place a point which I assumed would not include me, but that it would be included by this government, which is a fundamental document, and that is the programming declaration. You all know that we've been dealing with the program declaration here when we say trust to the government, which was sometime after 2021. I do not understand at all that this government will, after a year and three months, allow itself to change its programming statement, which it will not present, it will not give Members, it will not tell them what has changed there. So I would just like to draw the attention of the government, and today only one minister present, which is therefore precisely for legislation, so he certainly knows what it says in the Constitution of the Czech Republic: the government is defined by the constitution as the sovereign body of executive power. It consists of the Prime Minister appointed by the President but also appointed by the President on a proposal from the President. To whom does this government answer to the ministers? Well, he answers to the Chamber of Deputies. I want to ask you, Members of the right spectrum and also from the left hand side, have you received an updated programming statement from the Government of the Czech Republic in your e-mail? Anybody know his new contents? Yes, for example, this new programming statement states in the preamble that we will arrange for citizens on the Internet to see how the government is carrying out the program. So I would like to say that the citizens of the Czech Republic, I think, maybe on these pages they will just find some crossed-out programming statements with its changes. I think that no one will even go about what has changed there, and I stress again, this government and ministers are accountable to the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I would like to recall the words of the current KDU-ČSL President Marek Výborný, who was in Interview 24 in 2019, where he said: The Government is responsible for its ruling to the Chamber of Deputies and not to the President. Then I'd like it to be fulfilled. I find this absolutely outrageous and incredible, the fact that this government does not communicate with us, with citizens, their communication is tragic, but I consider this to be the real pinnacle of disdain and arrogance. I am convinced that the programming declaration is such a problem for the Prime Minister to speak here, has he made a summary of the fact that there has been a change in the programming declaration, what has changed there, and that all Members in this Chamber of Deputies receive the current version of the programming declaration? I think that this is not such a big problem and I would also consider it very correct if, if necessary, the programme statement dealt with individual committees on individual chapters, whether it be transport, education, social area and so on. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I will propose this point today, and if it is not approved, I will propose it at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that I should not do it and that the Prime Minister himself should come, or his Vice Prime Minister, because he has as many of them as we have never had in history, and one of them could certainly speak out and present the programming statement to us. [[16.40 hours]] So, Vice-President, I would like to ask you that the Czech Government's programming statement be included as the first item of the meeting tomorrow, or tomorrow as the fourth item, and I am giving the fifth point a chance. Once again, if this is not granted, I will present this at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u45	Thank you, Madame. So let me just make sure that you're proposing three options. First, fourth and fifth points tomorrow. Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková is now taking the floor, Mr Vladimír Zlínský will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to propose a new point called Critical Drug Situation. I'd like it to be classified as fixed points. The Czech Republic has been suffering from a lack of medicine since autumn. Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek repeatedly claims that he solves the problem, but not only antibiotics are missing, but almost all medicines are missing. According to doctors, diabetes meds, asthma, high blood pressure, bladder treatment, etc. are missing. The State Institute for Drug Control has calculated over 2,000 items that are not on the market. Doctors don't remember this in the last 30 years of practice. The Minister of Health has said that the situation will improve with the arrival of better weather. It has now come up with a deadline until mid-May, when imports should perhaps be renewed for at least some producers. However, this is not the first time that it promises to improve the situation. The reasons for the lack of medicine are a little different than the Minister claims. The situation is commented by the words that the problem is that penicillin fell out normally because the manufacturer did not supply it with sufficient quantities. However, it is not only penicillin, as I have already mentioned. It all started with the launch of Green Deal in the European Union in Germany, where nuclear and coal power plants were shut down. They had to be replaced by gas, which is a backup for solariums and fans. The collapse of the gas exchange followed because of the enormous pressure on the price of the gas. However, gas is an essential production element of all chemicals used in pharmaceuticals. The price of products from which drugs are made has skyrocketed. For political reasons, however, the European Union and individual states have refused to increase the price of medicines for pharmaceutical companies. They cut production and moved business to Asia. Production is now in India and China, where production costs are not so high as they take away cheap Russian gas. The main cause is the regulation of the European Union and the failure of this government to address the situation effectively. The State has a duty to ensure the health and safety of citizens. This is not happening. That is why I propose to include this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u47	Yes, thank you. Mr Zlínský gets the floor, Mrs Marie Pošarová will prepare herself, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u48	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we place a new item on the agenda. It should be a discussion on the creation of a central controlled data society in the near future, perhaps reality or fiction. The European Union intends to implement nine European data spaces in the foreseeable future. The first thing to do is to be health care, and then to follow other fields from energy to agriculture. There's no way I'm opposed to digitalization. I'm a techno-optimist. But I am also opposed to the unbridled, uncritical, digitalization of society and the use of artificial intelligence resources without considering the possible consequences that are already manifesting to us and from which we should learn. I'll name some here. It is the growing uncontrollable information power of digital platforms, digital dementia and youth mental problems, hidden media manipulation, social bubble formation and division of societies, the emergence and promotion of animosities in human societies. However, I see the greatest danger in the possibility of building a supervisory company, where the amount of data collected on the individual members of companies and the functioning of these companies will be used for central management in order to achieve the stated objectives and maintain the power domination of those who enforce these objectives. These are, for example, the objectives. Preventing global climate change through restrictive regulations, carbon footprint control, promoting the destruction of the previous thousands of years of functioning social relationships that have been declared to be an advantage - I name family, nation, state - by trying to create a kind of global mix of nations, races and sex, which is supposed to lead to the achievement of a worldwide lasting nirvana. Fast and efficient processing of large amounts of data on human society behavior and functioning, algorithms of artificial intelligence and their use to manage companies sooner or later will lead to stagnation of development through the degeneration of cognitive and mental capabilities of human populations, because it will reduce the need for these capabilities by replacing artificial intelligence systems. Simply put, we're gonna be fooling around how smarter artificial intelligence is gonna be. Furthermore, we create the dependence of our existence on a very complex network system with storage sites and data processing algorithms. Whoever controls this system will be the master of the future world and will decide on the future direction and development of human societies. I didn't mention the possibility that this system would deliberately or accidentally cease to function. I'd like to be the first point on the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u49	Tonight, okay? [[Yes.]] Yes, thank you. Mrs Marie Pošarová is now registered and Mr Brož will be prepared after her. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u50	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose a new point, namely the Grains of Ukraine and its control. The SPD is clearly against imports of cheap agricultural products without proper quality control not only from Ukraine. After the invasion of Russia's troops to Ukraine and the blockade of shipping to Russia, the EU countries opened their borders and abolished customs duties on grain and other crops from Ukraine. The grain was to continue to the Middle East and to the African states through Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary. But part of the grain has flooded markets, warehouses and granaries in Central Europe. About 4,500 tons of Ukrainian grain also ended in our market. Crops that were not controlled at borders in Poland are transformed into Polish for feeding or consumption. The blame is on the European Union, which has not ensured control of the movement, quality and safety of the grain. Problem number one. Ukrainian grain imported without duties is much cheaper and farmers in the European Union cannot compete with it at a price. Problem number two. Ukraine does not have to comply with the regulations laid down in the European Union, there is no restriction on GMO food and, moreover, they can use prohibited pesticides in the Union. These prohibited substances revealed tests in Ukrainian grain in Slovakia. The checks are now reported to be taking place in hundreds of Polish companies only now, almost a year after the beginning of the report. Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Bulgaria banned from Ukraine not only cereals but also other food of plant and animal origin. The Minister of Agriculture Nekula said that the system of controls guarantees that food on the Czech market is safe and that a non-compliant sample has not yet been found. According to the Minister of Government of the Fiala, the bans imposed in recent days by Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Bulgaria, are populist, contrary to the conditions of the single market of the European Union and the World Trade Organisation. The government should guarantee citizens of the Czech Republic that there will be no GMO food or other toxins. I wonder how the government controls whether or not cereals are GMO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u51	Thank you, Madame. Mr Lubomír Brož will now appear, Mr Karel Sládeček will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, by this way, the inclusion of a new item on the agenda as the fifth item on the agenda today, and I would call this point "Prepared increases in the contributions of self-employed workers." In recent weeks, there has been a report in the media space that The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is preparing legislative measures to increase contributions from self-employed persons by 60 per cent over the next three years. This information was also confirmed by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Šárka Jelínková, who told Czech Television that there is an increase in contributions from self-employed people in the coalition. At the same time, this increase in social contributions for entrepreneurs would mean, according to the representatives of businessmen, and now I would like to quote the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders, Josef Jaroš - a reduction in the attractiveness of business for beginners and the disgust of existing entrepreneurs. As a result, the number of tradesmen will fall, part of the business will probably move to the grey zone. At the same time, the right-wing government, whose ODS declared vehemently that it would not increase taxes, is planning a 60% increase in the government's contributions to the state budget. It's smart, though. I mean "smart" in quotes. So, aside from the fact that the government, which promised not to raise taxes, is already talking about raising VAT, real estate taxes, which are taxes given not only materially but also formally by its designation, is probably going to increase taxes behind closed doors, abolish tax exemptions, cross out tax deductible items, do notvalorize pensions, evidently leave parental as it is, and now, as a cherry on the cake, will increase the mandatory contributions to the businessmen, thereby really extremely burdening them. And it doesn't matter whether it's called taxes or taxes. Perhaps this government, which, at the same time, reduced the statutory remuneration of pensions, does not want to tell us that these increased contributions will once really reflect on the amount of pensions paid to these very entrepreneurs, as it has tried to do in the media space in recent weeks. Entrepreneurs should approach the proposed measures by burdening their income to employees - employees who, however, do not have any security of permanent income, paid leave, sick day or entitlement to medical care. They do not often guarantee all their assets for their business, and if they are not successful in their business, and therefore do not make enough money, their source of livelihoods will end. In this way, a businessman has virtually never had a surety of income. Therefore, it should also be able to make a reserve from its income. Our government, with the right-wing Prime Minister and the right-wing finance minister, is obviously trying to eliminate businessmen one year after the election. She won the election with a promise to cut 100 billion on the budget's spending side immediately after the election and painlessly. Instead of reviewing the expenditure side of the budget, however, it seems to be slowly but certainly approaching a dramatic increase in the revenue of the state budget. To the citizens of this country, who are struggling with almost 20% inflation, fourfold higher energy prices, increases in water prices, fuel prices, drugs, and drugs, essentially with the price increases of everything, our antisocial right-wing government, which has won elections with completely false and false promises, will now dramatically increase tradesmen's revenues. Don't be mad at me, but this is a really absurd theater you're doing, dear government. I believe that this measure deserves a point which I therefore propose, as I have already announced at the beginning of my speech, entitled "Prepared increases in the contributions of self-employed persons, as the fifth point of today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u53	Thank you. Mr Karel Sládeček is now in office and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u54	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new point on the agenda for today's meeting entitled Gas prices for households increased most in the Czech Republic in the semester. The five-calice government has added another major setback. The growth in gas prices for households in the Czech Republic was 231 percent, the highest increase in gas prices throughout the European Union, while in neighbouring Slovakia it was only 18 percent, the second lowest in the European Union. How is that possible? Minister Síkela praises himself in the media as he has managed to cope with the energy crisis, but he has actually managed with the worst results from all over the European Union. As this is a very serious subject for our citizens, I propose to include this item as the first item in today's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u55	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will now appear and Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u56	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of a new point entitled Mental Health Reform as the first point after the fixed points. ANO's government has put a plan to improve mental health care into the programme statement and since 2017, it has begun to implement the process of changes defined in the so-called Strategy for Psychiatric Care Reform, within which about CZK 3 billion from the European Union have been used, but from the outset funding mechanisms have been developed for all new services from national sources, so that we do not depend solely on European money. Reform aims to improve the quality of care and to reduce the stigmatisation of people with mental illness. In its first phase, there were 30 mental health centers where teams of health professionals and social workers provide outpatient patients with outpatient care within the walking distance of their residence or visit patients directly at their home. Another objective of the reform was to reduce long-term hospitalization in psychiatric hospitals and, on the contrary, to strengthen acute bed care. This has reduced the number of long-term hospitalized patients between 2018 and 2021 by up to 30 percent and, on the contrary, increased acute psychiatric beds by more than 600. It is essential to understand that effective care for mental health goes far beyond the competence of the Ministry of Health and requires active cooperation by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, regional self-government and other institutions. We managed to bring reform to the government level in the form of the Mental Health Council, we created and approved the National Action Plan for Mental Health for 2020 to 2030 and planned concrete actions for the first three years, including funding. It is absolutely incomprehensible to me that, at the moment, only three jobs are reserved at the Ministry of Health for mental health care reform. Resort confirmed the demise of a department of 40 people at the end of 2022. At the same time, I would like to point out that the ministerial executive committee in charge of mental health care has ceased to meet. I consider it a disaster. This situation took place this year. The reform is lacking leadership, which is at a time when every third person is experiencing mental problems, and it is unacceptable for me. According to Marie Salomonová, it is inconvenient that patients' organizations and people directly affected by these processes are not invited. The debate, if any, is with the Psychiatric Society, not with everyone involved in the problem. It also points out that European funding for projects to modernise the mental health care system has ended and new projects have not been drawn up in time. [[17,00 hours]] In order to offer them some quality of life fairly, it is calculated that we need hundreds of centres, not these current 29. I can't imagine any new centers being created with this passive approach. Please, let's not dismiss something that has a head and a heel that supports the general public. I therefore propose that we include this point in the debate to understand what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u57	Thank you, Madame. Mr Lubomír Wenzl will now appear and then Mr Babka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, but before that, I'll ask you to remain calm in the hall. You can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u58	Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to be placed on the agenda for today's meeting as the first item on the agenda of the item entitled Information of the Minister for Defence on the planned mobilisation exercise of the drainage procedure. I will briefly justify the request. Recently, we have had the opportunity to learn from open sources that on 18 May this year there will be an exercise - practice of drainage management by regional military headquarters in case of the need to make contributions in the future. I do not question the implementation of this exercise at all, but I have doubts about the way in which it is prepared and the plan for its actual implementation. With this exercise, the army wants the practical doctors to train how to conduct a drainage procedure in the future in case of a levy. Deputy Chief of Territorial Forces of the Army of the Czech Republic, Colonel of General Staff Jaroslav Hrabec was told, and I quote: "This exercise is organized in the framework of the Army of the Czech Republic at Regional Military Headquarters every year, it is repeated and the regional military headquarters are preparing to carry out one of their basic tasks, which they have in the event of a state threat. In this year, after a few years, we are checking all the regional military headquarters at the same time." This statement is, however, contrary to the statement made by the President of the Czech Medical Chamber by doktor Kubek, whom there is no reason not to believe when he challenged these words from the representatives of the army and stated that he heard this for the first time. In order not to rely only on often very inaccurate and misleading information from the media and the Internet, the medical chamber published on 14 April 2023 information that it sent to doctors, and it says here: "The Czech Medical Chamber was not officially contacted by the Czech Army on this matter. The Czech Medical Chamber has no official information about the organization, course or dates of this exercise. On the other hand, the Czech Medical Chamber notes that, despite the absence of a legal obligation, nothing prevents those interested in civil doctors from volunteering in this or similar exercise or training, which the Army of the Czech Republic organizes. The Czech Medical Chamber can offer the Army of the Czech Republic its capacity to inform doctors in case of interest, but it will always inform its members of their rights and obligations." In this case, I believe that communication from the Ministry of Defence, the Army of the Czech Republic to the Medical Chamber or the Association of Practical Physicians has failed absolutely in this case. Were any of those who were preparing this exercise, looking into the emergency room for adult practitioners, what does it look like there on a working day in the morning? If that were the case, the date and time for its implementation could never be set. It kind of feels like a balloon went off again, waiting to see what's gonna happen. I see here that it is decided from above on something that is not discussed with those to whom it is to be addressed. In discussing this point, I would like us to know not only we, but especially those to be affected by this exercise, and the public more details, especially how the planning of this mobilization exercise took place, whether the Czech Medical Chamber, or the Association of Practical Physicians, was involved in the preparation of this exercise, whether the planned mobilisation exercise of the drainage procedure will take place on 18 May, when and to what extent - the level of the region, the Czech Republic - from 1. 1. 2005 so far, there has been an exercise of this type, or others, with the involvement of practical physicians for adults, and with what result, whether there has been correct communication from the Army of the Czech Republic, and if not, what measures have been taken to prevent this from happening in the future? Thank you for your attention and support for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u59	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Another application is Mr Babka and Mr Štolpa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies, gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, according to current media information, students may lose tax discounts and tax exemptions on scholarships. This again follows from the leaked proposals of the Ministry of Finance, or the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who always lets this information into the media space to find a response. According to his words and his latest proposals of April, the Minister of Finance plans to partially support the state budget at the expense of students. They were retired before, and now they're students. Of course, at this point, I feel the need to express myself here at this point and put this item on the agenda for this meeting. I would like to make a few comments on this subject. It is often the opinion in the Czech Republic that we have a lot of college students, but it is not true. In this case, I am based on Eurostat data, which, according to the Prime Minister, is now almost a disinformation site, but I will nevertheless allow myself to use this data from Eurostat. According to data from 2021, the proportion of the higher education population in the Czech Republic in the age group 25 to 34 was 35 percent, which is about 10 percentage points lower than the target we want to achieve as a Republic in 2030. But this figure will not tell us anything about itself unless we interpret it in an international context, because the average in the European Union is over 40 percent, and the Czech Republic is therefore the fifth worst country in the proportion of the university-educated population in this age group of 25 to 34 years. Below us is only Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Italy. From these data, i.e. from Eurostat, even though they are slightly older data, it is clear that the Czech Republic should not really resign to support and motivate young people to study and to enter universities. Moreover, Czech students receive on average the weakest support from the state throughout the European Union and are among the most working people across the Member States of the European Union. Human capital is one of the most profitable types of capital. Investment in quality education is, of course, an investment not only in the individual but in the entire society. Quality education brings a high amount of positive externalities for the state, and it is therefore entirely in its interest to promote quality education. If it is discussed in the media environment that Minister Stanjura wants to withdraw CZK 9 billion from students, this means that they will miss the very 9 billion and will have to earn it somewhere, and this will, of course, mean that the funds spent by the state in higher education will not be allocated effectively, because students will be engaged in a significantly higher level of employment in higher education rather than in the study itself. I hear in my neighborhood because I'm still a student myself, that my colleagues or fellow students are horrified by this plan, and all the more so are shocked because some of them are five-calice voters. Minister Stanjura, in an effort to optically improve the state's management during this period, wants to sacrifice investment in our common future just as he did at the expense of pensioners, so now according to the Ministry of Finance, students are in line. And so allow me, Madam Vice-President, to load the point of útok on students' wallets into this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u61	Thank you, too, and another with the application is Mrs Štefanová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u62	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place the press at today's meeting of the House, with the press number 5 - a draft bill on the abolition of judicial executors, actually for a simple reason. The adoption of the order of execution in 2001 extended the existing types of execution by another kind of execution carried out by judicial executioners under the order of execution, i.e. conceived as special legislation in relation to the general procedural arrangements contained in the Civil Procedure Code. The order of execution therefore delegated part of the jurisdiction of the court, namely only the one which is applied after the judgment was given, or the decision of another state authority, while maintaining the jurisdiction of the court as well as in the field of enforcement of the judgment pursuant to the regulation contained in the Civil Procedure Code. The establishment of the judicial executor was mainly followed by the acceleration of the recovery process, which was decided by the competent body. In fact, the bailiff is a state-appointed and authorised person for the execution of the execution operation. The purpose of the new regulation was, with the help of the material involvement of a private entity, to release an entity in the process of enforcement of the decision, which, in its own interest, will endeavour to recover the decision as quickly as possible with the utmost profitability for the authorised entities. The motivational executor for increased performance is thus primarily his reward. The material involvement of the bailouts in the execution results has undoubtedly increased the efficiency of recovery, but above all at the expense of the debtor's position. Of course, the order of execution assumed that relatively detailed procedural rules would be a sufficient element giving limits to the financial motivation of the executors. However, this assumption was not fulfilled. In many cases, executor authorities have become a state in the state, and their practice has often ignored not only the rights of debtors but also often the legitimate interests of creditors. By adopting this legislation, the State resigned from its role to ensure enforcement of the decision and failed to ensure effective enforcement through judicial enforcement, i.e. civil servants. At that time, the enforcement of the decisions provided by the civil servant worked smoothly in many countries as well. That is why we are proposing the abolition of these executors and the return to adjustment before 2001, and I would like to place this press on today's agenda, as item 7 - I hope I am saying this correctly - respectively, after the discussion of the House's press, 380.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u63	Yes, thank you. I noticed. And once again, House Press 5, okay? [[Number 5.]] Yes, thank you. And the last one with the application is Mr Kott. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u64	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Since the subject that I wanted to discuss here is very important in my opinion, and since it is excused by both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Industry and Trade, and I see it as a matter that should actually be discussed here, because it is the collapse of Czech agriculture and in the wake of food industry, so I will not load that point today, but I will definitely keep it for tomorrow. If the ministers are here, I'll want to load it tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u65	Thank you, and we've already exhausted all applications for today's program, so I'm gonna take the liberty of getting my colleagues to come to the ballroom. Yes, please, with priority rights, the President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u66	Thank you. I'd like to take a five-minute break at the STAN club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u67	Okay, thank you, and I'm declaring a five-minute break, which means 5:19 p.m. [[The hearing is suspended from 17.14 to 17.19 hours.]] The break has passed, and after the break, President Benda reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u68	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, not that we do not want to vote, but because we want to speed up today's negotiations, on behalf of all coalition clubs, I announce that we are vetoing the inclusion of all the new points raised by opposition Members so that we do not abstain by voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-02-ps2021-063-07-000-000.u69	Thank you, so we will continue to vote on the pre-selection of the press, and the first thing we have here is Mr Benda's proposal to point 17... [[Attention from the diaper.]] Excuse me, so let's vote from the Gremium first. So I'm opening the vote... [[Knocking cards on the bench.]] I'm sensing an interest in the check-out, so I've checked you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your I.D. cards. We're gonna wait a little longer for our numbers to settle. We are voting on proposals from the Gremium. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 192, registered 150 Members and Members, for 148, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the individual proposals, the first Mr Benda, which proposes paragraph 17, print 378, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, today for the already firmly ranked points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 193, 153 Members and Members, in favour of 81, against 70. The motion was accepted. The next item is again from Mr Benda, paragraph 18, press 379, the election administration, today for the already firmly placed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 194, 153 Members of Parliament signed in for 81, versus 71. The motion was accepted. Mr Benda's next item is paragraph 19, print 380, the governance of the elections - related, again today for the already firmly ranked points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 195, 154 Members registered, for 80, against 72. The motion was accepted. Mr Benda's next item is paragraph 44, press 39, Senate Bill on Elections, today for the already fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 196, 154 Members registered, for 81, against 72. The motion was accepted. The next item by Mr Benda is item 139, House press 1927, Mr Köppl's appeal, today at 18 o'clock after the points or points already included. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 197, 155 Members registered, for 81, against 71. The motion was accepted. Mr Benda's next item is item 108, House press 283, protection of competition tomorrow as a second item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 198, 155 Members signed in for 153, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Mr Benda's next item is item 105, House press 312, on association in political parties, tomorrow as the last item for the points already firmly included. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 199, 155 Members signed in for 82, versus 54. The motion was accepted. The next item is proposed by President Okamura as the number of point 29, House press 9, on social services, and it is like the second item today or the first item tomorrow. So first, we're going to vote as a second item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 200, 154 Members registered, for 71, against 44. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the same press, but first item tomorrow. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 201, 154 Members signed in for 72, against 48. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by Mr Okamura is paragraph 79, House press 266, on state social support, as a third point today or as a second point tomorrow. So first, we're going to vote as the third item today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 202, 154 Members signed in for 72, versus 44. The motion was not accepted. So we're going to vote on the same thing, but tomorrow we're going to vote on the second point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 203, 154 Members signed in for 72, against 52. The motion was not accepted. The next item is the item by Mrs Adámková, to include item 61, House press 162, the transplant law, as the first item today after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 204, 155 Members and Members signed in for 73, versus 56. The motion was not accepted. [[17.30 hours]] Another proposal from Mr Kobza is item 36, House press 16, public holidays, as the fifth point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 205, 155 Members registered, for 71, against 50. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal from Mr Kobza is item 33, House Press 13, Criminal Code, as the sixth point today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 206, 155 Members of Parliament signed in for 71, versus 72. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal from Mr Stržínek is item 78, House press 265, the amendment of the Act on the Integrated Rescue System, as the first point after the already firmly included points today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 207, registered as 156 Members of Parliament, for 69, against 71. The motion was not accepted. And the last item for the vote is the item from Mrs Štefanová, House Press 5, the abolition of judicial executors as the seventh item or after discussion of the House press 380. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 208, registered 156 Members and Members, for 21, against 75. The motion was not accepted. So much for voting on the agenda for today's meeting. And now I'm opening a point.
