ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 70th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will unsubscribe all of you, and please log in with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Babišová Andrea all day - working reasons, Bačíková Jana all day - personal reasons, Bašta Jaroslav whole day - medical reasons, Bauer Jan whole day - working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel whole day - family reasons, Bělor Roman whole day - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej within 10 hours - health reasons, Bernard Josef whole day - working reasons, Brož Lubomír from 11 o'clock - family reasons. I have a message here: President Radim Fiala votes with replacement card number 32. Bureš Jan all day - working reasons, Carbol Jiří all day - medical reasons, Decroix Eva whole day - personal reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav whole day - medical reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav whole day - family reasons, Fifka Petr from 11 o'clock - family reasons, Fischerová Romana all day - medical reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav whole day - personal reasons, Gazdík Petr whole day - personal reasons, Hájek Jiří whole day - working reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej whole day - family reasons, Šimon Šimon from 11.30 - personal reasons, Horák Jiří whole day - family Jan - family reasons - family Hrnčíř, Klíma Pavel whole day - working reasons, kolovratník Martin whole day - working reasons, králíček Robert whole meeting day... [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down! Thank you... Yes, thank you. Krutáková Jana the whole day - working Lukáš, Kučera Michal the whole day - working reasons, Lacina Jan the whole day - medical reasons, Mádlová Ivana the whole day - medical reasons, nový Miloš the whole day - medical reasons, Okamura Tomio until 10.30 - working reasons, Oulehlová Renata from 12 hours - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana the whole day - foreign travel, Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla the whole day - working reasons, Pošarová Marie the whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Potůčková Lucie the whole day - foreign travel, Quittová Petra the whole day - family reasons - working days - working reasons, Richter Jan the whole day - working Petr, Staněk Pavel the whole day - family reasons, Špičák Julius the whole day - working reasons - working days - working reasons, Tureček Karel the whole day - medical reasons, Urbanová Barbora the whole day - working reasons - Vondrák days - Milan Wenzl, Válková Helena until 10.30 - working reasons, Vých Radovan the whole day - working reasons, Vík Vích the whole day - family Ivo, Wedovan the whole day - family reasons - Vrána day - working day - working day - working day - working days - Wenzl Lubomír - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working hours Lukl. The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - foreign trip, Baxa Martin until 11 o'clock and from 13.15 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš whole day - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - working reasons, Dvořák Martin whole day - working reasons, Hladík Petr whole day - working reasons, Jurečka Marian whole day - family reasons, Kupka Martin whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena whole day - working reasons, Lipavský Jan the whole day - personal reasons, Solomon Michal from 12 o'clock - working reasons and Válek Vlastimil the whole day - working reasons. Today's meeting should begin with paragraph 110, which is a proposal for changes in the composition of the House of Deputies. Furthermore, we would focus on points from the block of laws - third reading, in order: paragraph 99, House printing 362, seed circulation; paragraph 104, House printing 437, on state enterprise; paragraph 105, House printing 444, excise duties; paragraph 101, House printing 371, on preventive restructuring; paragraph 102, House printing 372, insolvency law; paragraph 106, House printing 165, on the residence of foreigners. Alternatively, we would continue the points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. And now I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to amend the approved 70th meeting? I have Mr. Jakob's priority right here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u2	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the coalition agreement, I would like to propose a slight adjustment in the order of today's negotiations, namely the switch of prints 437 - state enterprise and press 444 - on excise duty. I therefore propose that paragraph 105, the Government's draft excise tax law, House press 444, be discussed as a third point today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u3	Mr President, yes, that means that this will be a third point, and paragraph 104, on a state enterprise, was as a fourth point. Yes? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I wonder if he's still... Yes, I see an application here with Mr. Babiš's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u4	So good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u5	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u6	At this point, the premieres and presidents of the European Union are eating breakfast in Brussels, and they're putting in fantastic bagels, I've always loved it, and butter, especially the demi-sel, it's kind of salty butter. And our Prime Minister is sitting there, on the left hand side he has Emmanuel Macron, on the right hand side he has a Swedish Prime Minister, I don't know him, I knew Magdalena, she always wanted those Sharia centers until it ended so much that today Swedish police can't go to certain parts of Malmö and Oslo. And the last time I spoke here and I was on the EU Committee, I invited the Prime Minister to finally start defending the interests of the Czech Republic and the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I also texted him on Twitter. But as I heard from the Brňák, Mr. Prime Minister, when he was at Masaryk, he had some nickname Mlčoch, allegedly driving it Bek, and I don't know who, so he kept quiet. [[9.10 hours]] And he keeps his mouth shut. Even the exception to Russian oil - by the way, the Czech Republic imported 820 000 tons more oil last year than in 2021 - was also arranged by Viktor Orbán. And by the way, speaking of fuel, the Ministry of Industry gave the Maďar an exception to supplying diesel on the basis of Russian... a certain share of Russian oil by December 5th. So when this is over, I wonder if it doesn't extend what's going to be here, but that's not a problem. The Prime Minister has responded as we all know because he is the most lying prime minister in the history of this country. The most lying. And this government has a policy of lies. They're still lying. And that's what pro-government media is helping them to do. Everyone that owns the media wants something. One has a gamble, the other has this, well, like it was a long time ago when I decided to go into politics and fight it. So I wrote to the Prime Minister: Mr. Fiala, start defending the Czech interests, as Morawiecki defends the Polish, reject the scandalous migration agreement. The Prime Minister replied on Twitter: Andrej Babiš asked me to block the migration agreement at the European Council. Let us leave aside that the content of the agreement from the Council of Interior Ministers corresponds to the position approved by its Government. - And that's the 100 times repeated lie, and they're all copying it. Everyone. Even one editor now writes it again in the Activist IROZHLAS. So, folks, please, journalists really shouldn't lie. I know you're lying about making articles to order, but I don't know anymore, Mrs. Černochová isn't here today, and when she was performing here, she was always talking facts, facts, facts, facts. So I think I've shown this place several times, I've shown it several times that it's not true. That I turned down this proposal in September 2020. He refused. So it would be good for the media to stop, even the Prime Minister to lie about it. It is not true that we had such a position because, of course, you manipulate, you manipulate that, yes, in common, we wanted to defend Europe on the external border. I read the position here, and then the Prime Minister writes: The worst part is that Andrej Babiš once again showed that he does not understand the EU at all. - No, Andrej Babiš was homeless and he was lying there at the main station and somebody walked by and picked him up and turned him into a politician? No, Andrej Babiš is totally impossible. Everybody's still showing you around, okay? And he's always saying that I don't understand the EU, and even though he's always saying the opposite, and it proves it with photos of someone Fajn. [[Where?]] If he knew how the EU worked, he would know that no blocking of the position of the Council of Ministers is possible. Yes, Prime Minister. What about Chovanec?! He made the same scandalous decision as the Rakušan. He approved the quotas, and I changed it because he's just the minister. Prime Minister... And what's the worst? You boast that your entire presidency has prepared this scandalous agreement! Scandalous deal is that. See what's going on in France. No? What's going on in there? Something happened there, yes, but the whole background, no one's saying anything about it. So you can reverse it, Prime Minister, but you don't want it, you don't want to reverse it. Because you guys are going to Brusel, you broke, you broke the V4. Who's right, then? So the headlines of the anti-Babiš - The bruselský Summit took over the migration dispute. The discussion board has blocked Morawiecki and Orbán. And why not a fiala?! Because he listens to Brusel. Yes, that's why. And it makes it easy for me to haunt here, and so on. Well, then, of course, we can go back to that again. So, Prime Minister... and it's clear, and yesterday I tweeted, and again Deník N: Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki wants to veto forced relocations of migrants at the EU summit. I will propose a concrete plan for safe borders. Not forced resettlement, not sanctions, yes, security, sovereignty, and better protected borders. - So the Polish Prime Minister is just as dumb as Babish? Because Bakalův's writers, who fall asleep and get up in the morning to write something, some lie, and pretend to understand Brusel, write something? Any crap? Morawiecki says he wants a veto! And they blocked it yesterday. Morawiecki and Orbán. It says here, Journal N - this is, of course, an activist, progressive diary, they have their mother in Slovakia, right? That's what the oligarchs, these anti-Babish oligarchs, the diary N. And they say that together with Orbán Morawiecki, the premieres of Mateusz Morawiecki and Viktor Orbán, tried to reach the conclusions of the Council and the definition against the rules of asylum and migration policy on which Member States agreed in Luxembourg at the beginning of June. The Czech Interior Minister Vít Rakušan represented the Czech Republic at this meeting. But Morawiecki and Orbán now argued that the decision there was not unanimous and that the European summit should name this. With the plan to pull the migration card at yesterday's meeting came the Polish Prime Minister before he began. Poland, by the way The Polák want a referendum on this. The YES movement also wants a referendum on it. We also wanted a referendum on it. For example. Together with Orbán, during the evening they disrupted the still calm course. Yes, we did. You know, it happens that there are 27 leaders and there's a point in Ukraine, they all read more or less the same thing. It's not, like, how it should be that it's not the management of a family company. And those are the people who are supposed to be making decisions about Europe. Everyone's gonna read their speech, the Prime Minister probably gave a speech too, I don't know if it was for the smugglers. And so today it continues. They've got the bagels and the butter. Now they're having breakfast and they're gonna talk about it. Source familiar with the course of the Diary meeting N said that Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni pushed both premieres during the meeting to reconsider her position. So guess why? Why did she push? You know why? Because since 2015, Italy has received EUR 1 billion 100 million. And Greece, where the Greek Prime Minister won the election because he wants to build a fence of 100, 200 kilometers, received EUR 3.4 billion. What do we Ukrainians get? Zero. Nothing, $40 billion so far. So I wonder when something... And the Prime Minister could have demanded the money. I invited him to ask the EU Council for 40 billion for the Czech Republic! Yes, the rada is unanimous. And that's the terrible advantage. Prime Minister, if he had the courage, like he didn't have it and he wasn't talking, I'd say I want the $40 billion, otherwise I'm blocking this, and I'm blocking this! Four nights and five days I ate those bagels and I blocked the Council! And I brought extra 42 billion. That's the unanimity that the TOP 09s and the Pirates want to cancel. So the Prime Minister is not fighting for Czech interests! He's not fighting for money for us! We have willingly accepted hundreds of thousands of refugees here. And he doesn't understand what's really going on in Europe. And one of the points I'm about to propose is the NCOZ annual report. The Russian-language mafia has returned. Illegal smugglers are here. Crime is rising in the Czech Republic. I'll talk about that in a minute. [[9.20 hours]] So I'm going back to the summit. Morawiecki and Orbán are fighting for the interests of their citizens. Well, of course, the Prime Minister is just making a fool out of Babiš. What's the logic that if the chovanec approved it as much as the Rakušan did, that we reversed it? I turned it around. And I wasn't a prime minister, I was a finance minister, but as a coalition partner, I turned it around. We did not allow the European Commission to present the legislation when I was Prime Minister. The fake legislation. The invitation to illegal smugglers and migrants to Europe. Yes. So we're not getting anything behind Ukrajinec, we're supporting, and that's a huge danger, that's a huge danger for all of us. And I don't know if the Prime Minister reads the headlines. Children are growing among illegal migrants; they are embarking alone on a dangerous journey to Europe. For example, the headline. The new EU agreement on migration will increase border suffering. Minor migrants pay sex for crossing the border between Italy and France, says the organization. This is a scandal, okay? In Italy, minors resort to prostitution to safely reach France. But who's creating the atmosphere here? Who's creating the atmosphere here? I asked you, I actually forgot the last time I performed here, why does Fiala have a low birth rate? This is Janulík, he has 3,500 clients, right? And he tells me, our MP, he had 100 births there every year. He's 80 today. Why? Because people are afraid, because here is a government that haunts them, which is incompetent, which does not fight for Czech interests. Yes? So that's what's happening now. And who's to blame? Well, of course, the selected media, the activist media. Last week we were discussing the submarine. I mean, I don't. They dealt with it. And the fact that 200 people drowned, illegal migrants, weren't those headlines? Subtitles were some kind of submarine where three billionaires went down somewhere. Well, of course I'm sorry. But that's how it works. There's no talk of it in Germany either, what's going on there, the crime. And that is Europe's greatest threat! There's no talking about it here. So the Prime Minister is completely out of his mind. He doesn't understand what's going on. And when I get to that NCOZ point, I'm gonna read you what's going on with us from the point of view of the smugglers, from the point of view of illegal migrants. And that everyone's going to Germany now? But Germany, I've read it to you, it's full, it's about to be closed. They will also come to the Czech Republic. Maybe Jurečka's gonna open up the office for them on Saturday. It is not open to Czech citizens. But I'll get to that, too. So please, first of all, it would be good - I know that this government is constantly lying, and those ministers are lying. And if anyone does not understand the European Union and has avoided it, it is the Prime Minister. I mean, he let me fight emission permits on December 16, 2021! He came into office on the 17th. He went to the First Council on February 17th. The entire French Presidency in 2022, the first half, sloppy, didn't even have time for Macron. He's completely lost. He doesn't understand it's a fight! Yes, there's business behind closed doors! Something for something. Yes, solidarity, of course, we've been through this with vaccines and so on. So it would be good for the Prime Minister to finally understand that there is no breakfast and lunch in Brussels, but that there is a fight for the interests of individual countries. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister didn't understand. And it goes against the program of STAN and Pirstan and SPOLU and so on. And the refined lie is that, yes, we said, we'll defend it at the external borders, but never, and I repeated it here again, that we need to return those ships, they can't sail. It's organized, nonprofits, criminal nonprofits, some, like Morawiecki said, that's the solution. Well, the Prime Minister won't listen, and it would be good if he read it, I'll get to it in a minute, the NCOZ report. So I propose the same point as the last time that the Prime Minister here gives us a report from the European Council, unless he changes his position today and joins the side of Morawiecký and Orbán. It is not true that the European Council cannot reverse this. And just to reverse the shameful, dangerous pact, the migration pact against the citizens. Yes, so that's one suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u7	I'm sorry, Mr President, can you just clarify what that point is, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u8	The point is: the information of Prime Minister Fiala of the European Council and the explanation of his position on the migration pact. That's one thing. Yesterday, I was intrigued by the interpellation of my colleague Malá, who came here and asked Minister Stanjura why he wasn't at the press conference? Well, now, actually, strategy... [[He's looking around the O.R.]] I'm looking for a minister, there's no minister, that's okay. Is there a minister here? It's not. That's okay. So you remember how to--
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u9	We have the Minister here, the Minister is here, and I dare to welcome him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u10	The minister's there, excellent. No, it's okay, okay. I welcome the Minister of Agriculture. Remember when Kalousek and Stanjura yelled at us here, that the House was a souvenir? We couldn't even pee, we all had to sit here, the whole government. They screamed, they insulted us. They're on duty now. There's always a minister coming, there's a new minister, there's somebody on duty every day, and all they do is express that they basically don't give a shit about us. Even Stanjura said he wouldn't answer to the Malá one. Well, what's the malý one? Well, that's the MP. Well, it's not a souvenir anymore, it's not a principle anymore. We really suck here. And that's how they treat us. If Babiš, as Treasury Secretary, hadn't gone to a press conference and gone to a Shakespeare party, I'd have been killed a long time ago. But you know that the media is theirs, and the media is lying. Now there's a lie about the position of the Czech Republic being ours. It's a dirty lie. I've repeatedly shown the position, it's not true, I've read it, but they'll still lie and copy! They're either doing it on purpose or they're completely stupid. So I don't know, pick something. It's just to the edge. That it's a government that's been lying permanently, and they've actually been screaming about how they're gonna cut corners at the authorities lately, haven't they? And, of course, the media lied again that we didn't do anything. At the same time, I remember Mrs Schillerová, as Secretary of Finance, reducing by 4,500. And you know that I didn't take any of my teammates anywhere as advisors, more or less being a member of the YES was blacklisted. The only exception was Brabec, because I've known it a long time, and apart from Faltýnek, he was the second person to... No one else. Schillerová, Havlíček weren't members, they didn't come until October. So they're telling us how they're gonna save. So what's on the table now? Title: The government has planned new offices for tens of millions. It's coming from the EU, defending itself. Well, that's unbelievable. Do you understand that? Do you understand the headline - it's coming from the EU? So who doesn't know that EU money is the implementation of the Czech budget... so they're kidding, right? In fact, the government tells us it's the EU, it's actually something out of place. What's that? What is the argument that this is from the EU? All EU money goes into the budget, of course. So they say, well, it's not really, it's kind of money. That's bullshit! [[9.30 hours]] So on Wednesday, the government, in addition to the form of the tax package, inconspicuously - that is what the journalists are writing - has somewhat subtly approved the proposal to adjust the number of jobs in the state administration! The cabinet plans to increase the total number of positions by about 160, despite earlier promises to reduce the situation. Well, it doesn't. And you know why he doesn't save money? Well, because they need those places for their friends, for their coworkers. Well, let's see where they are... and these are absolutely incredible things. If you look at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, there's an increase in the number of officials by 40. And labor offices are down by 33! Do you understand that? I don't understand. Plus, I don't understand when I have a headline here: Labour offices will be on holiday and weekend alert to change support for refugees. Yeah, so it'll be open to Ukrainians. By the way, I'm so curious about how things are going to work out with this place. And if the communal, municipalities, cities and state finds apartments for Ukrajinec, it would be nice to find apartments for our singles and our people. So Mr. Jurečka proposes 40 people plus, I don't know why, and at the Labor Office, which he was supposed to strengthen, he takes 33. [[is it getting ……]] The Department of the Environment raises 55 people, I don't understand why it raises 55 people! Ministry of Regional Development plus 38 people. I don't understand. I really don't get it. Ministry of Industry and Trade 23 plus. Ministry of Transport plus 10. I don't know what more people need in there when the whole traffic is ŘSD and Railway Administration mostly. And the Ministry of Agriculture cuts by 15, so fine, the Ministry of Education raises by 25. I've said repeatedly that if they want to save money, they should release all members of their five-wheelers. Because, of course, so many people have been found there. So we can see how many MMRs are there by Minister Bartoš pirát, advisors who failed in the elections. Apparently, according to the press, he's got four cars, and so on. This government wants people to save money, take money from them, and it doesn't save money at all. And, of course, this is a material that has 115 pages, and there are various offices that, of course, may be unnecessary. After all, the government promised to abolish some of the authorities. Well, Mr. Former Minister of Agriculture had such a smiling attempt to move SZIF to Brno, I think, or where, except everyone told him no one was going, so the office would probably end. But I don't know what you're dealing with in this government. Apparently nothing. Because the Prime Minister doesn't run it. If I were Prime Minister, I'd tell you: show all the rents of ministries and institutions with foreign entities. This was one of the tasks that Mrs Arajma was to address at the Office of State representation in property matters. And if I remember that, sometimes it was $600 million! And why are you based in foreign buildings? That's the subject, for example. And the authorities. And property, how much property do you have? Very much. So nobody does that because, of course, if we just take the government office, that's 612 people. Saved two. If I were there, I'd save at least 200 or 300. I also reduced it by 267 in my line of work. Only Mr. Bartoš is supposed to have 50 people there. What are they doing there? I don't understand. So you guys are quiet again, even though you've been screaming about saving money, you normally raise jobs, and exactly where there's no need as an MPSV, instead of perhaps strengthening the employment authorities and not reducing them. So I think someone here should explain why these individual agendas are proposing an increase? What do some of these institutions do? I don't know. Here I have a surveyor and cadastral inspectorate in Pardubice, various inspectorates. And hygiene, by the way. So hygiene back there, if I read it right, you're taking their money. Hygiene. That was one of the things that the Minister immediately did, instead of continuing to see how we fixed it, because hygiene is, of course, a very important office, so he takes places there. So the next point should be information about the new systemization 1. 7. This means a proposal to change the systemization of service and jobs with effect from 1 July, which has been approved by the Government and increases, in my view, unnecessary positions. We're trying to help you. And actually, you live off our inheritance. It would be good if, for example, you could say hello, Minister, Minister of Culture of Baxa, to the project that I actually invented thanks to Minister Herman, and we were together in the prison in Uherské Hradiště 2016, and then for a year I persuaded all the authorities to transfer it to the ÚZSVM. Yes, the Museum of Totality. The totalitarian museum. It was ready, so start making it happen. New scene, we've prepared for you, too. National Gallery. Change the principal, she's completely lost. So try to do something about it. And why am I talking about you inherited it from us? Well, because the OKD that Bakala tweaked, and he tweaked it so that first he took the train, the power, he took everything, and his pro-government writers are still writing... So I saved the OKD. I bought it for 70 million crowns. For the state. For the state. For the state. If I wasn't in politics, maybe I'd buy it for myself. And OKD made a profit of 5.1 billion crowns last year, imagine! And Mr Stanjura will take - 1.8 billion will be earned by the state in the form of a dividend. So thank you, Dear Government, for thanking us for leaving you some more money here, OKD. Bakala pulled about 130 billion there, and, of course, the writers are not allowed to write about it. They only write against Babiš. Labor offices will be standing by on holidays and weekends for a change of support. Well, that's interesting, of course. So we take people. You didn't raise the money. Well, then maybe it'd be good for them to talk about digitalization, so I don't know. The next topic is the annual NCOZ report. And it's creepy. Russian-language - this is page 30 - and post-Soviet criminal structures. In 2022 significant changes started to occur in the structure and character of Russian-language criminal organizations. Russia's aggression against Ukraine was the main impulse for this change. - Because they feel safe with us, those mobsters, don't they? I don't understand why they're not at the front, most of the people I meet here, like men. - The main impulse of this change was Russia's aggression against Ukraine, which led to an increase in the number of Ukrajinec living in the Czech Republic from 200 000 to 615 000 in the long term, writes NCOZ - 615 000, which is another new issue. [[9.40 hours]] In this context, she has... By the way, we had x Ukrajinec who were getting work permits in Poland and were blackmailed here. Everyone knows that, and no one cares. The MPSV doesn't solve. It doesn't. When they checked, they checked the construction of Babiš in Průhonice, of course. That's where they came and the workers were leaning against the wall. And that was... That's how it works. So 615,000 Ukrajinec. In this context, crime associated with agency employment took on importance in 2022. Working agencies controlled by criminal organisations mainly commit tax crimes where social or health insurance payments and, as a rule, income tax are not paid for agency employees. In 2022, following the transfer of wealthy persons from the post-Soviet space to the Czech Republic, isolated cases were recorded in the South Moravian Region, where funds for protection were claimed by criminal groups. - That was a regular firecracker. In 2022 it became a risk of establishing foreign-language criminal groups in the Czech Republic. The migration of people from post-Soviet space was used by some members of criminal organizations to move to one of the countries of the Schengen area. These transfers were accompanied by a transfer of usually criminal capital, which was transported often by cash and where attempts were made to invest and legalize in the Czech Republic. The start of Russia's aggression and its subsequent adoption of international sanctions have caused a significant proportion of Russia's citizens, including members of Russian criminal structures, to transfer ownership and investment activities. This wave of sales accelerated the previous decline in the participation of Russian citizens in Czech corporate legal entities observed in 2020-2020. However, it is only a partial and often fake withdrawal from equity shares whose ownership is replaced by formal owners. Criminal activity in the field of violations of international sanctions shall be carried out at a sophisticated and organised level. Its actors are criminal structures that cooperate with the business sphere and help to circumvent the penal regime. They also cooperate with Russia's intelligence services, which coordinate the import of embargoed military equipment - electronic components for the production of guidance equipment and so on. And, of course, we have Balkan criminal structures and so on. So I think it's scary. And it would be good for the Home Secretary to tell us how he wants to deal with this when he's still got a lot of cop loss, 'cause if he doesn't pay them, of course there's a big fight for people between the military, the fire department and the police. And then, of course, we have illegal migration. The global release of antiepidemic measures in 2022 was used by criminal organised groups specialising in the commission of migration crime and increased their activity. In 2022, the trend from previous periods was maintained, when migrants were smuggled into the Czech Republic by criminal organisations mainly within the so-called Western Balkan migration route from Turkey to the western and northern parts of the European Union. However, there has been a significant increase in the number of migrants captured, most of which have been estimated from the used M.O. to assist criminal organizations in their journey. Criminal structures used to ensure secondary migration through the territory of the Czech Republic especially personal and van vehicles, which the perpetrators provided mainly in various car rental companies, sometimes also based in the territory of the Czech Republic. When communicating between migrants and criminal organizations ensuring their transport - and we are talking, Prime Minister and honourable fellow citizens, about the Czech Republic. We are talking about the Czech Republic, where the government pretends that migrants are not at risk, illegal migrants do not commit crimes, they do not increase crime... Well, look in Germany and Sweden. So encrypted mobile communication apps - WhatsApp, Telegram. The migrants were also instructed to deny the use of the services of criminal structures. In addition to this, the M.O. continued to be used in the air transport of migrants from Greece to the Czech Republic, when criminal organisations had equipped migrants with counterfeit personal documents from one of the Schengen countries before travel. Well, it's a normal mafia! It's organized crime! And the Prime Minister says no, migrants - that's fine, a quota of 30,000. Last year was 846,000, maybe a million. Yes! Well, I'm curious to see how the Prime Minister and Rakušan will prevent it from affecting us. Well, it won't! Because they're here! They're here. And in 2022, counterfeit Romania's identification cards were used to circumvent authorisation procedures for the purpose of obtaining a residence permit for persons who do not have the citizenship of an EU country were used. Yes, there was a director at the Home Office once, and I forgot his name, which was fundamentally against it, and there was no asylum. [[Member Lang says his name.]] Excuse me? Yes, Haišman, that's right. Unfortunately, I think he's already dead. That's a great guy! He was the one who made sure we weren't threatened here. Because that's what's threatening us. They have a different culture. They're acting differently. By the way, when we are dealing with, of course, here, and I am glad that Mrs. Malá and Minister Blažek have fundamentally shifted sexual violence against women in our country under our laws, not any Istanbul Convention. None. So these migrants work in a completely different way, they have different instincts. Yes. Falsified papers. So that's not good news. In 2022, the emergence of new criminal organizations ensuring the transport of migrants to the Czech Republic and closer to the target destinations - Germany, Nordic countries - was also recorded. But they'll close soon enough. They won't take them anymore. Nationals of the Czech Republic also participated in the activities of these criminal structures. That's how I was on the Hungarian border, where our cop told me, well, imagine we arrested my neighbor among the smugglers. Yes, he was there with a German license plate, waiting for the migrant, cashing it in and taking him away. These perpetrators, in the capacity of members of the criminal organization, provided vehicles for the transport of migrants and provided drivers for individual transports, or were even used themselves as drivers for individual transports. Other members of these criminal groups were also in a similar position different foreigners with residence permits in the Czech Republic. The higher management articles of these organizations were mostly aliens operating in more than one country outside the territory of the Czech Republic, thus confirming the long-term trend of transnational criminal organizations in this area of crime. Illegal migration - it's criminality, it's smugglers! Six billion euros once, when I was Prime Minister, these smugglers were cashing in every year. In particular, given the number of migrants, their anonymity and the impossibility of identifying their possible criminal history in the country of origin, there remains a latent and long-term risk with extremely serious consequences. Another challenge is the migration of the so-called war generation, which has a personal experience of civil or religious conflict - the Middle East, African countries - to the EU, when migrant young people have expectations that are not adequate to the real potential of the target country. So that's the migration. This is the Czech Republic. That's the NCOZ report. And if you read it, what's going on here, how crime went up, and now something happened on Letna. And of course last year, when he, now I don't know if he was Syřan or Afghánec, he stabbed those two women and raped them in Karlovy Vary because he went to enjoy his New Year's Eve, well, it kind of was. But if it happens again, believe me, I'm gonna scream awful. Because those who invited those migrants - and it's a quota, 30,000, have never been a number before. We didn't allow legislation! And the Rakušan boasts that he was preparing this within the Presidency? That they were preparing it? And the Prime Minister said no, that doesn't concern me. [[9.50 hours]] Then you'll be responsible. Even for those people who drown. There'll be thousands drowning in the Mediterranean. Because if you don't do it like Australia, and I've always said it, you don't return those ships, you don't fight the smugglers and you don't load them and you don't take them back and you don't take care of them, so it's gonna go up. Definitely. So I repeat... Here's the headlines. Not only did they allow it in the N.Polish Prime Minister's diary to veto the relocation of migrants. Here's the hammy's Hamáček position! Once again, respectable activist journalists, stop copying and lying! Stop supporting these lies, Fiala! Here is the conclusion: It can be summed up that the proposal in this point is considered by the Czech Republic to be very problematic and inconsistent with the long-term position. We never let that happen! We didn't allow legislation. They didn't! So it would be good - here are the headlines that Prime Minister Fiala says: Babišův's calls for the veto of migration rules are haunting and demagogy. Really? Scaryness and demagogy? But those are the facts, Prime Minister. Those are the facts. Read the NCOZ. See what's going on in Germany. The Germans are afraid to speak. Media? Yes, that's ideology. Ideology to reverse Europe's culture. Here's the evidence again, ladies and gentlemen, to Bakalův's reporters: September 24, 2020, 8:24 a.m., Babiš, headline: If we don't receive refugees, we can't return them. Does that make sense? What return policy, what registration? What am I saying? Solidarity cannot be mandatory. The essence of the new draft migration policy is pointless. Then don't say we agreed on anything. They didn't agree! You betrayed me! You are not a sovereign government! You're not the Sovereign Prime Minister. You have no idea what's going on here. You're out of your mind! I'm out of my mind! It's like he doesn't live here in the Czech Republic. This is unbelievable. [[A voice from the diaper.]] Are you the head of the National Sports Agency yet? They didn't give it to you? No? Then don't talk to me. You can read the headline here: The immigrants smuggle Čech as drivers. Bold rewards for the risk associated with smuggling attract more and more Čech. So far, criminal gangs have been organized primarily by foreigners. But cases involving NCOZ detectives show that even 16-year-olds (?) punishments behind the bars of Čech, most often the driver, do not deter. Why? Why are there only 16 months of punishment? Why hasn't it been 10 years? It would be interesting to know how much punishment there is for this in other countries of the European Union. Typically the most affected is South Moravia, where usually the most seizures, and then also to D1. Yes, at the gas station that I couldn't wash because those migrants were washing their feet. People's exports are going through the Ústecký or Plzeň region to Germany. He also described the tools that criminals use to communicate. Even what they are... [[She's going through the background.]] We're not discussing the dosimeter, it's a conversation about the dozimetr. We know that STAN is an organized crime, I'm not gonna deal with this here. So it's about that. It's with us, okay? So I don't know how to explain it anymore. Of course, it's hard to fight lies because we all know that this government is still being supported. And they're willing to do anything. Yesterday, a member of the TOP 09, a member of the TOP team, a volunteer, a coordinator for Hodonín County on Danuše Nerudová's team, a volunteer for the SPOLU coalition, normally made up his dirty mind and tweeted: yesterday Mr. Váňa called me, Babiš failed me, cheated me, and that I had something to do with him... It's incredible where we got to. Yes, politics of lies. Everyone retweeted it, said the Babiš, that's terrible. I wonder if anyone will apologize for that. And then this member of Marek Gajoš writes: "I deleted my tweet to Váňa because I guess he wasn't well understood. " Is he an asshole? He doesn't know what he's writing? That's how you read it. No? Then he writes, "Better delete it." Well, first she's lying... That's completely unbelievable. Whatever he makes up! They lie and lie and lie! Round and round. If a member of the ANO movement had done this, I'm sure he would have gotten a brush. Because this is totally unacceptable. So the headline here was "The Top 09" member... funny, you don't get it, not funny... Anything. Anything. Because everyone sees what kind of disaster we have here in the government. What we're in danger of. Not only will they break up the budget, they're taking people's money, but the biggest danger is, yes, the mobs that are here, and the illegal migrants that come and they invite. And Prime Minister, I'm sure you'll have those Coquille Saint-Jacques back in Brussels, those are the clams for lunch. I don't know why they keep putting them in there. I think there's a good supplier. Try to think about it again if you really are a prime minister who defends the national interests of the Czech Republic and go to that internship with Morawiecký. I'm not sending you to Orbán's, I'm sending you to Morawiec's. You admired him, he took you on that train to Kiev at the last minute to get a PR. It has VAT on food zero and so on. So learn and fight for the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic and protect this country from illegal migration. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u11	Thank you. I have another message - Mr Milan Wenzl cancels his apology, he is present. I wonder if anyone else is applying for a change proposal? He's not checking in. I have no application here. I would once again like to welcome the new Minister of Agriculture, Marek the Výborný. We welcome the Minister and wish him a lot of strength and health. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr. Janulík also cancels his apology. We would now proceed to the vote on proposals to amend the programme, as presented here. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I've logged the logout request, so I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies before the number of entries is settled. Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes all day, foreign travel, and Michálek Jakub until 10:30 for personal reasons. [[10.00 hours]] We will be the first to vote on President Jakob's proposal, which proposes that item 105, House press 444, which is excise duties, be discussed and included as third. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 129, 141 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 70, against 68. The motion was denied. But I have a request for a vote check. Minister Stanjura votes with a replacement card 33. Please, Mr Krejza to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u12	Hello. It happens to me once every ten years. I voted in favour. I'm against high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u13	Yes, we will now vote on this objection. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 130, 143 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 142, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. I merely remind you that we are voting on President Jakob's proposal to include the 444 House Press as a third point. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 131, 143 Members and Members signed up, for 73, against 70. The motion was accepted. We will also vote on President Babiš's proposal, which proposes to include a new point, which is the information of Prime Minister Fiala of the European Council and an explanation of his position on the migration pact. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 143 Members and Members signed in for 69, versus 69. The motion was denied. Next, we will vote again on President Babiš's motion for a new item, which is the Information - Sorry, a vote check, yes... [[Mrs Schiller is asking for a vote check.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u14	It's the first time it's happened to me, but I voted yes, and I'm late for high school. So please call into question the vote, please vote again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u15	Yes, we will vote on your objection first. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 133, 143 Members and Members, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. We are voting on the last proposal by President Babiš entitled Information on the new systemization from 1. 7. 2023. I'm starting... [[Inadmissible noise from left to left with opposition: The first point is to be voted.]] Sorry. I'm sorry, of course. I declare this vote (number 134) confusing. We repeat the vote on his first point. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 135, 143 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 71, against 71. The motion was denied. We would therefore now move on to the next proposal by President Babiš. He proposes a new point called Information on new systemization from 1. 7. 2023. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 136, 142 Members of Parliament signed up, for 68, against 71. The motion was denied. [[Mrs Schiller is asking for a vote check.]] The vote check... Mrs Nováková to vote. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. In voting number 135, I'm in favour, I voted against, but I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u17	Thank you, for the tape. Please, Mr. Kubíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u18	I voted in favour. I've been delayed on the record. I question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u19	Yes. Are we talking about the last vote? [[Mr Kubíček agrees.]] Yes, there is therefore an objection and a challenge to the vote. We will vote on the objection. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 137, registered by 142 Members and Members of Parliament, for 139, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on President Babiš's proposal for a new item, which is the Information on the new systemization from 1. 7. 2023. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 138, 142 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 69, against 72. The motion was denied. So we have dealt with all the proposals for changing the program, and I will now read the apologies. Jakub Michálek apologizes until 10:30 for personal reasons, Jiří Slavík until 11:00 for personal reasons. And now Minister Vít Rakušan reports with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u20	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, fellow Members, gentlemen, ministers. I've studied Germanics, and I know Mr. Babiš speaks excellent languages. And I'm serious, he knows a lot of them. So he knows what an eintopf is, what it's all throwing, and how the taste itself is sometimes marked by this. [[10.10 hours]] I'm not going in the same tone as him. I have a need to defend who is not here, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala. I am not going to address clearly false statements concerning the various areas, the various ingredients of eintopphus that have been here, but I need and consider it important to say what Prime Minister Fiala negotiated yesterday and today on the ongoing Council for the Czech Republic. Firstly, the European Council recognised the efforts of the Czech Republic and other states that host a large number of Ukrainian refugees. Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, pushed into the conclusions of the European Council the decision that the Czech Republic should receive further financial support from the budget of the European Union on a refugee wave heading for the Czech Republic from Ukraine. Poland and Hungary, however, blocked the adoption of these conclusions all night for internal political reasons. Poland and Hungary are therefore acting against Czech national interests on this Council. [[Disadvised call in the left side of the hall.]] And who invites us to join Poland and Hungary either does not know what he is saying or simply defends foreign interests in this matter. As has been mentioned several times, at this point the Czech Republic is fighting at European level from the position of Petr Fiala and from the position of the whole government for the Czech interests for maximum support on Ukrainian migration, and that is what the Prime Minister is trying to do today. If Poland and Hungary, because of the fact that elections are approaching someone or the reasons for others, have an attitude at this time that does not correspond to Czech national interests, then at that moment artificially stand up for the construction of the V4 is, on the contrary, what betrays the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, the financial interests of our country, and even our security interests. Say the facts. The Council continues, and I fully hope that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, will make the best possible position and financial support for the Czech Republic in accordance with the mandate he has from our government. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for defending this position - and defending it bravely and defending it the next day - sincerely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u21	Thank you. And now I'm opening a point... [[Member Babiš gestures. This is Mrs Schiller calling from the bench.]] Excuse me, Prime Minister Babiš reporting with priority rights. Then President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u22	I would like to respond to the Minister, who, of course, is lying. He's lying repeatedly. Stop saying you're in the same position as us. You didn't understand a thing. You even confessed to it, and you had it in your mandate that you were the scandalous migration pact, the invite of criminals, the illegal smugglers, you normally prepared it. You ate the Timmermans not only the Green Deal and the ban on the production of cars with internal combustion engines and the Euro 7 and the emissions that people pay for and the destruction of the cars and the insaneness of the Green Deal that needs to be changed, but also the pact. So if you're talking about the election -- but Orbán doesn't have any choices, he doesn't. What are you talking about? You're insulting the Polák. He's your friend! You betrayed Liberec in the Turów contract. The Prime Minister didn't even know what to do. Instead of calling Scholz, Morawiecki was his spokesperson. Then he took him to the train. [[He speaks very loudly, strongly.]] He didn't learn anything from him! He's not talking! I mean, he doesn't have the balls to block it, and he says, "You either give me 40 billion, either you give me... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Don't yell at me! [[President: Mr President...]] You guys do the prison, mostly. [[Ambassador Babiš continues his speech.]] Tell him to give you Stanjur's money! [[President: Mr President, address...]] So... let's block it... [[The President strongly: Hold on! Mr. Chairman, I have to...]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u23	I must interrupt you and ask you to address the MPs... [[Don't let Mr. Babiš speak to me.]] ... throughmyway. And I would ask you to adjust the volume of your voice to the environment in which we find ourselves. [[I don't address him.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u24	Madam President, make sure the Member does not speak to me. I'm not talking to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u25	Of course, the Member will also refrain from commenting on your address. [[If he doesn't speak...]] [[- Well, okay. So that's that...]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u26	That the Prime Minister is absolutely incompetent, he can't run this government and he controls everything the pirát want to destroy Europe. The Antifu, where Bartoš 2016... no, the poster we had! [[In an elevated voice.]] That's what's happening now. This is happening everywhere, in Germany, in Sweden. So there's no saloon behind those closed doors, but the Prime Minister doesn't have the guts. He's been avoiding it! Why didn't he fly there on December 16, 2021? Why did he avoid it? Why didn't he learn something in the Presidency? Why didn't he call, ask Charles Michel for an extraordinary European council? Why? No? I don't know what you're defending here. What are you defending here? Are you denying that illegal migration has gone up now? It is interesting that the Minister did not comment on the NCOZ report. That's your resort! Why did your crime go up? Why do we have a smuggler here? Why is there a significantly larger number of illegal migrants transiting here? Why do you guys have different mafias here that people are gonna be scared in a minute, okay? You don't care about it at all, the tension in society and the threat to the safety of our people. So don't talk nonsense. You have never been to the European Council, and the Councils of Ministers are completely different. Totally different! Again, you have approved - and you have prepared it and it is against the safety of the citizens of the Czech Republic. You approved it as Chovanec. I turned it over to Chovanc, then they sued us. Yes, Timmermans and Co. We've been sued. And we have prevented legislation from happening. [[Was it?]] You allowed the European Commission to do this legislation, didn't you? And Morawiecki out there fighting for those interests. You guys broke up. Number four, because the pirát and the Tops forbid it. The group made sense at the same time. Do you have a presidency? Well, I wonder what you're gonna do there. The motto is... what do they have there? Something about taking care of the citizens... and crap. So, please, no one believes you anymore, you're just lying. Read my book, which begins with the fact that on June 29 at 4:00 a.m. - well, feel free to applaud - 2018 we stopped quotas. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] There's never been a quota, thirty grand is a quota, and a minimum quota. Minimal. And you can say a hundred times that it doesn't concern us. Well, of course it concerns us, so read the NCOZ report. When, then, did they not simply ask for money there under the Presidency? Why didn't you get 40 billion for the Czech budget when you still have it in deficit? Why didn't you block it together? You should have been there when the southern states received EUR 9 billion from 2015. You didn't get anything! And the 500,000, or according to NCOZ 630,000, represent 238 billion according to a fine from the European Commission! So theoretically, if you say to Europe, take the Ukrainians, or give us 120,000 euros, that's 238 billion! So Stanjura's budget is settled. Of course it's nonsense, but don't talk nonsense. Do not think that we do not have information on the European Council, that we do not know what is happening on the European Council. And the Prime Minister did not understand at all that the principle is to fight for the interests of Czech citizens, and he does not. He didn't do it, yes, neither did the exception to oil, nor did he tell you how to cut it off from oil. Well, nothing at all. So it's not true, he's not vystupovat there. He's a stranger! He has a different nature for it. He wrote books. He's good at that. He can't drive, he's no leader. And there is a need to have a leader in Europe! There's the fight. And we pushed through the money! And taxonomy! And the core! And bark and all that. Well, you can laugh a hundred times, that's right! It's so short. So don't talk nonsense. And have the Prime Minister come here to defend himself. Of course, he'll lie again, a hundred times you'll say... We didn't have your position! Would you like to read it again, Minister? Would you like to read it again, the position of the Hamáček? Stop lying! There are headlines for anti-Babish journals. Stop lying! [[10.20 hours]] Illegal migration is a danger to our people. Huge danger. It is a danger to Europe. Europe is full, and when Germany closes, those people are at risk of staying with us. And I don't think they're supposed to be here! We're supposed to help them outside Europe. Yes, that's part of the mandate. So let the Prime Minister come. Why didn't you agree - let him tell us how it was there! Then we will hear what he did for the Czech Republic. He hasn't done anything in there yet! The Presidency is a fiasco, it affects people negatively, and migration is an absolute disaster. Huge danger! And those thousands of dead who drown in the Mediterranean will be your responsibility! Yours, too, because you were in favour!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u27	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Stanjura. Sorry, yes, in front of the Minister is Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. I also have to respond to the words of Minister Rakušan, because I consider it a complete disaster that tells here what Czech national interests are in the submission of this government and the Ministry of the Interior. Minister, you've invited smugglers, and you've invited Muslims and others who will come here! Go see South Moravia. That's where trucks full of Syřan go every night. Then why aren't you acting as Home Secretary? What are you doing at the border? Why don't you put the controls back in? And I agree that Europe is full, but I will tell you something, Minister. Your name will be your children and your grandchildren saying that you are the culprit who raised his hand for the migration pact, who has invited hundreds, maybe hundreds of thousands of Muslims and arab and people who just have nothing to do here, because first of all we have no money for it, it will cost the Czech state budget hundreds of billions. But you have now raised your hand to believe that the Czech national interest is that the European Union will print you a few billion euros. This is your Czech national interest now! It's not my Czech national interest, because my children and my grandchildren will live here, and I want them to feel safe here, and not to be able to walk out here on the street like in Germany! Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for the opposition.]] Minister Rakušan is the culprit if they come here! And I'm asking for a two-hour break at the SPD MP's meeting!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u29	Mrs. Schillerová, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will follow up on my colleague, the President of the SPD, and I will also take two hours to discuss the ANO member club after the end of the SPD member's pause. And what really happened here today is outrageous! Yesterday, my honored colleague Taťána Malá learns that she has nothing to ask the Minister of Finance about where he was during the press conference. What's she almost cared about? He'll find out about the interpellings. You're talking to us today that we don't really have anything to ask and what to say! Then get back on the ground! You must answer to this Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u31	So I will repeat only - please calm - there are two proposals for a two-hour break from the SPD, then the YES proposal also for two hours, and with a procedural proposal...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u32	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that I am one of those who is trying to calm down that day, but what you have done here, what you have done here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u33	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u34	... this morning, Andrej Babiš, the leader of the opposition, and then a colleague of Fiala, he's behind me! Break is the decency of this House. I'm asking you to vote on the break in this case. I'm really sick of this behavior! Full of teeth!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u35	Yes, there is a procedural proposal. Quiet in the House, please! There is a procedural proposal by President Benda to vote on breaks. Before I announce the vote, I want to ask if it would be a good idea for us to interrupt the meeting for five minutes. [[Agreed.]] Yes, so I'm calling a meeting of the Gremium, and I'm declaring a 10-minute break, or 10.35. Sorry, I'm still adjusting for 15 minutes until 10:40. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, have a good morning. Before we continue the negotiations - registering priority rights - I will be permitted to read the apologies. Today, from 10.30 to 13, for work reasons, Mr Josef Flek apologizes, from 10.30 to 11.30 for personal reasons, Mr Jakub Michálek, from 10 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Marek Novák, takes back his apology within 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Slavík, and from 10 to 11.30 for working reasons, Mr Miroslav Zborovský apologises. First with priority rights is President Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u37	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, following the situation here in the House, the House's grémium has been gathered and, on the basis of the agreement of the Gremia - and this will certainly be said by Mr President - this meeting will be interrupted by Wednesday, 12 July until 9 a.m. On the basis of this agreement, all member clubs and on the basis of the agreement, I take back my proposal for a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u38	Thank you. Next up is President Alena Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not gonna repeat what my previous speaker, Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club, said. Yes, there's a deal made. This meeting - and the Vice-President will undoubtedly vote on it soon - will be interrupted by Wednesday by 9 o'clock. In order for this to be done in a procedural manner, I, too, will take back the break for the ANO club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-30-ps2021-070-04-000-000.u40	Thank you. As both breaks have been withdrawn, President Benda's proposal is unvoting at this point. And as has already been announced here, the agreement from the Gremia is that this meeting will be adjourned until 12 July 9 a.m. when we will discuss the points in order as they were approved at today's meeting. I don't see the application for withdrawal, in which case I'm opening the vote and I ask who's in favour of interrupting this meeting? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting with order number 139, 143 Members of Parliament, for 110, against 9. The proposal has been approved. And I'm saying that this meeting is adjourned until July 12th, 9:00 a.m. Thank you.
