ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and other related laws (the House Press 366/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, Martin Kupka, the Minister of Transport, will present the proposal. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after 16 years, when the point system has not changed, when the road traffic law has not changed in a more serious way, we are bringing about a change that should first ensure greater safety on the Czech roads. At the same time, we bring not only repressive adjustments, but we bring things that give drivers greater clarity of the whole law, greater clarity of road traffic rules and important news, such as the ability to drive a car from 17 years under the supervision of a mentor and also a driver's license for the test. Let's very briefly introduce the law, its amendment. The first important point, the simplification of the point system. After its introduction, the point system has actually proved to be an important tool for improving road safety, and what we bring is its simplification when we bring three bands. At this point, all the violations are already divided into two-point, four-point and six-point proposals, so the other intermediate stages fall away. Of course, the 12-point limit will continue to apply, so the most serious offenses will work in a clear and understandable way twice and enough and three times and enough for medium-serious offenses. Another significant change that we are making in the law is the emphasis that the maximum number of offences can be affected on the ground, as it has long been shown that this is more effective in the most serious offences than in the situation where it is subject to administrative proceedings alone, where there are ways to delay such proceedings. Therefore, the conditions for the most serious offences, the 6 points scored, are also changing. Together with this, we also change the amount of fines. So far, a ceiling has been applied to the individual seriousness of the offences, so we are resetting the bands so that for individually different serious offences, there is really a penalty for police officers as well as for drivers, and we are also changing the number of bands, the number of limits for direct block fines from the original seven to four, and similarly reducing the number of bands for administrative proceedings. What we follow in the entire regulation of the law is clearly affecting the most serious offences by means of a higher penalty and, on the contrary, to relieve where the offences are the least serious, which do not pose a more serious risk, in particular the risk to the smoothness of road traffic, possibly to the potential risk of life and health of persons. [[19.30 hours]] What we bring together with the basic simplification of the point system and the fines are two important news, I have already indicated them at the beginning, and this is the possibility of driving a vehicle since 17 years under the supervision of mentor. It is a measure that has been very successful in many states. They are heading to help the most risky group of younger drivers. In the long run, the most serious offences in 11 percent are committed by drivers who have a fresh driver's license, who have received it within two years. In that period, therefore, this is a major harvest, while the drivers with the most recent driver's license represent only 2 percent of drivers in total. This inequality is significant, so we bring news that is rather preventive in this respect. We aim to be able to anchor in our system what has worked well elsewhere, and what brings the possibility in those early years, in the first year from 17 years behind the wheel, to gain experience under the supervision of someone more experienced, who is most often a parent. And who else should be interested in driving his child safer, foresaw other circumstances than the person closest to the young driver. At the same time, we bring a new driver's license to the test - a measure that also points to the most risky group of drivers and means that, in the first two years since the driving licence, the protection regime applies, which means that if one of the most serious violations of the 6 points or, where applicable, the offence, which is then directly subject to administrative proceedings, or is even a criminal offence, the driver must submit to a traffic psychological lecture within three months, which is a new element which we also provide following the model of a number of states, he must also undergo a new training of the starting driver in the driving school. This is a novelty that has long been highlighted by experts as missing in the Czech system, so that those who are commonly referred to as road pirates have the opportunity to return, even the duty to return to driving school and to learn what risky behavior means, and also to be able to learn, correct and abandon their dangerous desires on the roads. We are going to be able to shed light on the principles of safe behaviour on the roads in order to talk more about road traffic rules, so that we can also draw more attention to the fact that road traffic violations are still a serious phenomenon that robs people of their lives and robs them of their health. It's clear that laws don't have a chance to protect everything, and we don't even want to play it and we don't play it. But we want the law to be understood, we want people to understand it as much as possible. We want it to bring measures in this respect which are appropriate to what we know from neighbouring countries, even in terms of fines, because, even in this case, these conditions are to be comparable to those of the surrounding states. At this point, for example, we are lagging behind Poland and Slovakia, not to mention the states west of us. In this regard, we also bring unification of the conditions and aim to ensure that sanctions really apply as a proper threat and that in this respect they lead people to avoid unnecessarily dangerous behavior. We also want it to be clear as the fundamental principle of the whole amendment to the laws that, even on the basis of statistics, the most serious penalties are aimed at offences that pose the greatest risks that are most dangerous in terms of human lives and human health. Undoubtedly, we are going to have an intense debate, a number of amendments, but I firmly hope in a substantive debate, I firmly hope that eventually the law that will really be acceptable to the public will have a natural authority, because it is designed to really monitor the logic of the severity of individual offences, so that, thanks to its clarity, for example, it is easier to learn in driving schools and that the two important innovations with which we come will be able to manage under the supervision of mentor from 17 years of age and driver's license on the test, so that this will also have a positive effect on the conditions on the Czech roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman, to take the floor. Before he does, I will make an apology: Mrs Zajíčková Renata has been apologizing since 19.45 hours for personal reasons. So, Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u4	Good evening, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has already said, this is therefore an amendment to the Road Act. I don't want to repeat everything that has been said, so maybe I'll just say the main points and the main point. When you look at the draft of the novel, it's clearly about simplification. So this is a reduction from five to three bands. It's more understandable, it works twice and enough, that is, twice in serious offenses, where, for example, when someone's been drinking too much alcohol or going over the crossing and so on, so when they connect the two 6-point offenses, that means twice and enough, possibly three times and enough, when it's added up again. It is therefore a simplification of the system. At the same time, as has been said, the amendment looks at making it safer on our roads. If we look at statistics and if we want to believe facts, and it's not like that on the Internet sometimes, then when you look at statistics, drivers who have their practice within five years will cause about 18 to 20 percent of accidents. That means one fifth of the drivers, the young ones, those who drive within five years, will cause one fifth of the accidents. That is why it was mentioned here that the novel brings two big innovations - how the driver's license with a mentor from the age of 17, when he can take the final exam at the age of 17, and then he can drive his mentor for a year, typically a family member who will ride with the young driver concerned. As a plus here I see that the person will learn different situations, not just a certain number of hours he has in driving school. At the same time, the second, very important thing is the driver's license for the test, as has already been said, and that is from 18 to 20, when we know again that drivers who are 18, when we look at statistics, each fifth cause a traffic accident. Thus, the driver, this young driver who starts out, for two years will have a reduced point limit to adopt all the habits. That's probably the most important thing. There are, of course, adjustments to fines, both for the low ones, there are four bands, as well as for the highest ones that I have already mentioned. Generally it can be said that the most accidents with killing cause accidents where there is a high speed overrun, possibly with alcohol consumption. As far as the details are concerned, perhaps I would mention the important thing, which we discussed with colleagues across the political spectrum in the Transport Sub-Committee - we were dealing with blocking trams in parking passenger cars. In fact, this is the only thing in terms of parking, which is taken into account in the amendment, and there is a higher penalty for restricting the traffic of trams by parking and preventing public traffic from passing through. Those are roughly the main points. I expect a regular debate, especially at second and third readings, and, of course, as rapporteur to the press, I recommend that we move forward to the Economic Committee and move forward to discuss this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a general debate, which Mr Kukla Martin is the first to report to, and I will ask him to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, we're all drivers, so it's very serious, we're all concerned, so I'm gonna try to clarify a few things here. We are not entirely opposed, but we will certainly be giving some amendments for our club. [[19.40 hours]] If I briefly evaluate this, after more than 15 years it is definitely necessary to revise the point system. The current situation is quite unclear, it contains a large range of scores, for some negotiations there is no clear link to the specific facts of the offence, both for the amount of the fines, it is necessary to re-evaluate the amount of the point per infringement, or to completely separate some minor negotiations from the point system and, on the contrary, to add serious consequences to the point system. It is also essential to ensure easier access of drivers to information on the status of their point account. Here I quite welcome the fact that the amendment describes that roughly a hundred crown fee will enable drivers to be informed of the loss of points, because today it is quite difficult to get there. I am pleased that the Minister is following this amendment already to the follow-up work of previous ministers, Andrej Babiš, namely Minister Ťok and Minister Havlíček. The amendment contains, as has already been mentioned, two major changes towards young, starting drivers. To this end, the bill anchors two new institutes, namely driving with a mentor and driving licence for the exam. Driving with a mentor consists of the possibility of granting a driving licence for a group of vehicles B at 17 years of age, with the fact that this young driver is only entitled to drive until the completion of 18 years with an experienced good driver, the so-called mentor, registered, of course, in the driver's register. A mentor may usually be a parent, but it may be any person fulfilling the specified conditions, each young driver being able to register several mentors. The Mentor must of course have a driving licence for more than ten years, it does not have a driving ban and it is important to mention here that it does not have any point in the score or point record. Of course, a mentor cannot, like a driver, take alcohol and other addictive substances that are forbidden before driving. The driving licence for the test will be implemented through new institutes, which are a traffic psychological interview and training of beginners, which will have to be completed by a driver who, within two years of granting the driving licence, commits a serious violation of road traffic rules. The aim is to positively influence the behaviour of the starting driver, in particular to realise the possible driving he has acquired since he obtained the driving licence. If a starting driver has been given a ban on activity or similar measures under criminal rules, the completion of a traffic psychological interview and training of the starting drivers will be a condition for the return of the driving licence. It is very different there than the previous government proposed against the form of a driving licence for the test, which was part of the government's proposal for an amendment to the Road Traffic Act in the previous parliamentary term and which consisted in reducing the threshold for building a starting driver to just 6 points. On the other hand, from our point of view, the amendment erroneously abolishes the possibility of immediate driving bans, for example when driving in the opposite direction on the motorway or when driving red on railway crossings. Public information has been told by the Minister that he is also considering increasing the maximum speed on some sections - I did not find that in the novel, so I do not know how he stands. What else can I say about the novel? There is also an increase in mass for Group B, where the holder is at least two years old and uses a vehicle for the transport of costs, exceeding 3,5 tonnes but not exceeding 4,250 kilograms, but having to use some of the alternative drives. What the traffic experts criticize in this novel is a safe distance at which, of course, the driver should be able to stop the vehicle. There, when we look - when we drive in the village, and we drive 50, the safe distance should be 28 meters, which I can't imagine how we would follow. So much for me, I guess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u7	Your speech raised two factual points, the first will be the factual remark of Minister Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u8	I'll take the liberty of setting some things straight. As of today, you can look at your spot account using the Transport Portal or any other way of electronic contact with the state free of charge, basically online. It will also be possible in the future, you will even be able to request that when there is a change in the status of a point account, you receive a vizo, for example by texting or by e-mail, and if you do so via the Portal of Transport, that means by electronic means, it is also free. Just in case, which is not entirely logical, that you would like to ask for this electronic service in the form of a form submitted, there is an administrative fee, but we don't expect anyone to do that when they want information in electronic form and would ask for it in a standard written way. As far as mentoring is concerned, there's free entry. If during the year he would require the addition of one of the other mentors, then he is charged. But when it comes to really those steps that should ensure that people can easily access information about what their point account looks like, we want to focus attention on that. We want to focus on this even this year so that it is really possible to get the information in this regard as quickly as possible and that the law will come into force in the future and the visa will come when the driver will check it out so that it and the visa changes will come automatically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u9	Thank you for keeping time. We will continue with the general debate in which Mr Kučera is signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u10	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on some of the points of this amendment. I very much welcome the amendment as such, I think that the Ministry of Transport has taken a good step to present this amendment to the Chamber of Deputies, or that it has been working on it - I would also like to acknowledge the courage that on some points it has progressed further than normal, and I will get to the points that I think are right. However, to begin with, I would say that we do not have to or should not think that any tightening or restriction or restriction will dramatically increase our road safety. This must really go hand in hand not only with control and with tightening control, but of course and clearly hand in hand must go with ensuring smooth operation. And I'm kind of missing the flow of traffic here in this text. [[19.50 hours]] Of course, it is not entirely easy to resolve the amendment to the law, there are a number of sub-legal standards and, of course, in particular, it is the approach of individual road managers in individual regions. In particular, I would draw attention here to traffic signs and, respectively, to road signs throughout the Czech Republic. This is a factor which significantly reduces the flow of road transport, road traffic. And we can compare, here we often use comparisons with other countries, so please compare how many traffic signs are on the exits from our cities and how many are in neighbouring states. Of course, I understand a little bit of motivation because I'd rather put a limiting mark somewhere than, for God's sake, that something would ever happen there, and that mark wasn't there. However, you can do a pretty simple test for that. I always recommend to everyone, and especially to those who call for further, more pronounced restrictions and more stringent checks, to sit in a car in Aš and to drive right through the road signs and regulations, to go through the whole Czech Republic, to Ostrava and to assign points to themselves when they cross one of the traffic regulations. If they make that journey without assigning a single point to themselves, and if they honestly allocate those points, I will really appreciate their ride. However, if you want to go smoothly, then you, and here I dare say, I guarantee that from time to time, there will just be some overstepping of the rules. So this is especially on the exits from cities and, of course, on the sections, and I would mention this here, for example, transport structures where there are portable signs. Portable brands - that's another big mess. They are long-term located, they are restrictive even at a time when there may be no activity. There's a limit of 30 kilometers, often, and those of you who drive more often happen that on the other hand the 30 isn't even finished, which means theoretically you should go to the nearest intersection that would cancel the 30. I don't think anybody would do that, and I think they should assign a nice line of points to themselves. That means the flow of road traffic, I'm calling for it here, and I think it has to go hand in hand with restrictions and restrictions that are correctly ordered here, of course. So I'm just going to say one more point, and that's an increase in velocity to 150 kilometers. This has been proposed for several times, at least in the parliamentary period 2013 to 2017, by a colleague here, today chairman of the Economic Committee, and with our support. I think this is the right step on modernised sections of highways to take advantage of an increase of 150 kilometers. But here I would say once again, it is necessary to proceed to the fact that these sections, in particular, have dynamic, or if you want line traffic management. It's a matter that's absolutely essential. That means for those of you who can't imagine anything under it, so they're lights that show above the highway what speed you can drive, or speed limit or seduce into one lane. They are, of course, widely used by our neighbors, especially in Austria, there is perhaps all the sections of the motorways. And I am clearly calling here for this to be introduced to a greater extent, for example, in sections where it will be allowed at 150 kilometers speed, if the weather gets worse, it will rain, the fog will be so that it can be reduced to a lower speed than it needs to be 130, 100 kilometers, or even 80 kilometers. It would be driven by the dynamic or line traffic management. Here, of course, and I would like to conclude by now, pointing out that a number of accidents are being blamed on a paragraph that says something about not adjusting the road's condition and nature. A number of accidents are being blamed for this or a number of accidents are being concluded. No longer cares about the state in which the road is in and in which the road makes it possible for a smooth ride at all. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Minister of Transport once again for coming to the House with such a rather bold amendment. I believe that it deserves support, that we will also express the support in the Economic Committee and that the result will be a modern amendment to the Road Act, which will work simultaneously to ensure the smoothness of traffic in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Vomáčka is now reporting. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond very quickly to what my esteemed previous speaker Michal Kučera said. The problem with brands is a little different. Look, please, nicely, for example, at the parking lot of the big shopping centers, when drivers often crash and call for no brands, while we all drive cars - the ordinary rule of the right hand. But unfortunately, that's not often here with our drivers. Everyone's making it easy on themselves. Everywhere they want to be guided, navigated. And so is learning how to zipper or ride round roundabouts. There's a lot of pressure to get those marks in there, caused by the driver. And I give the truth to the chairman of the agricultural committee, Michal Kučer, that the swaying of our roads is huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u13	Thank you for keeping time. It is now registered for the general debate, Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u14	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make this law very brief, because I assume that there will be more detailed discussions on both the Economic Committee and the Transport Sub-Committee. I'd just like to remind you of a little bit of genesis. Already in the last parliamentary term there was submitted an amendment to Act No. 361/2000 Sb., but she didn't have time to discuss it because there were more important things, after all, covid and so on, so it didn't happen. The minister, of course, had the amendment revised according to a slightly different assignment, but a lot of changes are similar there as they were. I originally wanted to respond by a technical remark to the Minister for One Inaccuracy, and I beg you that over the years there has not been a change in the point system - there has been. If you remember, when the point system started, suddenly all the drivers started to shine because there was one point. One point was once for breach of the ban mark, except for the ban on stopping and standing. These offenses are no longer scored and over the years there has been a change in the point assessment, when one-point offences are no longer there. Just to be clear. They were minor changes, but there were some changes. And I think everyone remembers the mandatory lighting. I would like to say that the President of the Transport Sub-Committee, now also the rapporteur of the press, has called a subcommittee on Thursday, where there is an interesting subject, and these are electric scooters. And I think it would be very good if there were cooperation and, if necessary, some amendments were prepared, because there is a moment when we can finally do something about this negative phenomenon of our cities, mostly cities, because I still believe that the reckless driving of drivers who do not have to use for a ride - on a bicycle, although electric, must at least step on the pedals, but they are actually riding on the electric scooter. And here's the thing: shouldn't I have, shouldn't I have a driver's license? Perhaps it would be good to specify more precisely when the driver's license should be for the scooter, when not. Only the law says that a scooter is considered a bicycle for the purposes of the law, so I don't know how to solve it. [[20.00 hours]] However, I believe that this could be a consensus across the political spectrum, so I expect, when the rapporteur started this campaign, that this will also be the result, and I thank you in advance for the work done and, of course, the Ministry, which is likely to add to it, because, as far as the opposition here was concerned, the coalition colleagues now called for a solution to this problem. And I don't think anybody really wanted to do it because it's complicated, it's difficult to write. However, let us take advantage of the fact that there is a big government amendment and let us try to look at the issue of electric scooters, and I thank both the legislators and the rapporteur beforehand that he will certainly do so, and look forward to a fruitful discussion on the Economic Committee and on the Sub-Committee on Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u15	Thank you, Madame. Mr Adamec is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u16	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I am already a memorial to the amendment to the Road Traffic Act, and I remember when I personally made my first driving licence, they put a coupon on our driving licence. There were some misdemeanors when the coupon snapped, so we had to get a new one, you had to do another rehearsal. Then it disappeared, and actually the first point system that was approved here, I was a senator at the time, so I remember that too. I remember some of those cheering contributions, how it would improve our road safety, and when the same people scored in six months, they quickly changed their minds. I have to say, I'm looking at it with the look of an elderly driver and the view of a liberal approach to regulations as set up. I really welcome my driver's license to rehearsal, and I think it's perfectly okay with the teenagers. Eventually, all the statistics show that it's a good thing. Given how the transport system has changed or how traffic density has changed over the years, such measures simply need to be taken. I also welcome the driver's license from 17 years of age under the supervision of the mentor. Here I might have one comment that we will definitely discuss in the Economic Committee, whether those points, if the mentor has a clean score sheet, as they say, if it's the right nut, because today they're going to take points for the increased speed, where it can happen very easily due to the house, that today the traffic police, and I don't want to cut it in any way, the traffic police usually do very well and the other offences are unfortunately very random, and eventually you lose those points in traffic accidents, where it's obvious, just the guilt and the like, you lose it there. And on the other hand, you can drive at an increased speed through stationary radars, and you can't get it into the point system. And actually, what's the difference, how fast on a stationary radar, or when the police just grab you on a radar in a camouflaged car and, exceptionally, completely in a marked car. Well, I think we should talk about this here, if this is the place, if there shouldn't be any lightening, like in terms of the slight speeding violation. I have to say, as far as point systems are concerned, I'm not looking at it that positive. I say this quite frankly, as I see it. I think the point system affects mostly you I would say normal drivers, those who want to behave and sometimes miss it. Because if you look at what happens on the roads sometimes today, you'll find that there's a group of drivers who don't have a point system, whatever punishment they don't care about, they just don't respond to it, and they don't care if we tighten up the rules here or adjust them so that road safety is as good as possible. I get it, it's important - it's just too many cars, traffic has thickened, we have some road network, we need to work with it. On the other hand, I miss this place terribly, I would say, the educational activity of the Police of the Czech Republic. I don't see a traffic cop who's a year long on the road. Marked cars sometimes we see - well, I think my own - very little. What we don't see sometimes and it touches us very much, these are the camouflaged cars. I guess you've all been there, and I don't think we're gonna pretend that everyone has had contact with these weird cops in strange cars. Normal cops have a car that says "pomáhat and protect." These guys don't have anything. Perhaps it would be better to write "hack and rob," because I really don't see the activity well in this area. I think it always worked the way that when the policeman was seen on the road, we all suddenly got tamed, we took it down to speed, we started acting completely different, and if we did something, most of us were uncomfortable interviewing a policeman maybe a lot more than a fine, which then mostly followed. So that's my opinion. Of course I understand, I think there's gonna be a discussion about it, with us on the committee definitely, about the points, because the system has to be done so that it's functional and that it's not vanquished for the driver, that's something to be said completely straight. Otherwise, it loses its meaning, because then there will be a number of drivers who don't care. Some of the things that were said here: speed on the highways. I confess that I'm probably the only drafter for the speed increase on the highway that passed in the House, unfortunately only in the House, then not in the Senate anymore, because that's where the trees at the 1s were solved, so it came back to us, then the right party secretariats worked and the footprints disappeared in the den of history. But let's talk about how it is with the speed. Otherwise, by the way, the least misdemeanors happen on the highway, those highways are actually one-way street. Germany has traditionally unlimited speed on motorways and won't take it my way, although sometimes we also hear such a tendency that it doesn't have to be this way or that they limit traffic signs to that speed mainly in the area of major intersections in those cities, which is understandable, but they still don't take the privilege. Even in the Czech Republic there was once unlimited speed, and do you know why it was limited? It's very simple, it wasn't for security reasons back then, it was for energy reasons. That's when the oil crisis came in the 1970s, and that's when the comrades decided it was necessary to drive slower, because there would be less consumption of our stiflers and stiflers, and that's why we'd save a lot of oil. Today we hear it again that if we drive fast, there will be more consumption. I know paramedics fly as fast as they want, and a helicopter 100 kilometers per hour, no measure. Okay, we're hearing again today that there's an energy crisis and that we shouldn't go fast. When you look at reality, when the oil and gasoline went up, a number of drivers really started to drive significantly slower on the motorways. And that's gone. It's gone, because the price has fallen again, it's elsewhere, it's riding, I think it's also for discussion. I don't think we should stick our heads in the sand. It's just the reality today, why do these cars have the speed? Why can't we go faster or can't we go faster? Why is it being designed at such speed? I think that's a question to think about and that we have a new road where there's just 130 isn't enough, and then we also have roads and highways where 130 is a lot, so we have to say that it needs to be corrected, regulated, adjusted and so on. When I look at the highways, I admit that apart from accidents, I've never registered police officers to deal with a traffic offence, and what's troubling us most today is overtaking trucks on highways, reckless overtaking trucks. I didn't see a punished truck driver passing the way he shouldn't have. Never! When I asked the traffic police, they told me that they had nowhere to stop him, that it was difficult and that this didn't work out. So I think this is also a step where you should think about whether the traffic police should focus on other activities other than speed measurements. [[20.10 hours]] Another problem. We say we want to be like the West, and now I'm going to say something controversial here. In the West, a residual proportion of alcohol in the blood is allowed, and while looking at statistics, it is not true that it is crashing more, that there is more dead on the roads and so on. It's just about our belief that we're just a nation that couldn't handle it. And I'm saying, it's for the good guys again, because the bad guys are going to drink anyway, even if it's forbidden, and it turns out, statistics say that we have more accidents under the influence of alcohol than countries that have a limit, they don't have a zero limit, but they have a number above zero. It's also for thought. I understand that we're not going to find the majority here, that we're not going to solve this in this bill, but I'm pointing it out - if we want to belong to the West, we should also deal with this issue gradually. My colleague Ožanová was talking about the scooters, so here I'm gonna tell you one of those seed beads. If you lose your driver's license or someone, how do you get into town, to your job? Well, on an electric scooter, you just don't need any paperwork. And I very much welcome the fact that this problem should be addressed because it is not possible to lose your driver's license, get a driving ban, and then happily ride the electric scooter without restrictions. It just can't be done. So to sum up, I very much welcome the bill, thank you to the Ministry for bringing it here, but let's discuss the problems on the committees. I think that's the way it's gonna be for the economy. And let us believe that we will be able to find a compromise between I would say the extreme positions of harsh repression and a liberal approach or a more liberal approach so that we can ride the roads safely and feel that we have done our utmost to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Ožanová will now make a point of fact, and Mr Kubíček will also make a point of fact. Mr Exner is then entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I will respond to the Chairman of the Economic Committee. He had that he didn't like the whole point system. For me -- maybe he already knows, I know it's politically impenetrable -- but I'm, for example, a supporter of the complete abolition of the point system. It is administratively demanding what we are going to talk about if you want to reduce the number of officials and the cost of the administration, so you have no idea what this agenda means, plus the solution in terms of scores, objections to points and things like that. Indeed, this agenda is also burdened by the Supreme Administrative Court. So I'm up for, let's increase sanctions, bans on action. If you go to Slovakia, Austria, Germany, do you go beyond speed? No. Why? Because of the amount of sanctions. So I agree with President Adamec. Yes, of course, I'm also a pragmatist, so I know I won't get away with it, but I like his opinion and I share it. I will just ask the President to set aside a lot of time for the Economic Committee to discuss this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u19	Thank you, Madame. Mr Kubíček will now speak with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, now that we're opening an amendment on road traffic, I'd like to draw attention to something. There was talk of young drivers causing accidents, and if you look statistically, it happens mainly for the reasons that the young person who drives a car with a vehicle of approximately 100 horsepower tops, then is able to buy a car that has 250 horsepower, and it is the first vehicle with which he starts to drive. I'd think about it very much, because this was a long time ago evaluated on a motorcycle driver's license. We have H1, H2 and differentiates with the age and performance of the motorcycle. And now that we have it open, it would be very interesting to look at the performances of these cars. And now b. I'm an ex-pilot, and before I became a state air defense pilot, I've been practicing for four years. I've been going from some third class, second class, first time I've been flying at night, foggy, acrobatics in pairs, groups and so on. But to do that, I worked through air raids and training. And it doesn't matter if you have a driver's license for three years and every year you drive 200 kilometers, or if you get a driver's license for a year and you drive 30,000 kilometers. It's a huge difference, and in this case - I know it's very complicated, Minister, I'm just looking at you to see if any statistics on a mileage raid would be good to introduce at least for those young drivers, because without practice, without mileage, it's really impossible to appreciate how well he works or can drive. 'Cause somebody's gonna be handy, and if they go to driving school, they're gonna take you out of town for a practice ride. But the question is, how long will he keep his attention, how long will it work, and so on. It's a lot of subjects, it's not gonna be an easy law. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr Kasal will take action. I also ask Mr Exner to be patient. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ironically, as a pediatrician, I just want to say one thing to you and it has to do with my predecessors. I also agree with proposals for 17-year-old drivers and driver's license for exams. I want to draw attention to one thing. At present, when I give confirmation that they can pass the exams, currently the driver's license costs 20, 25,000. And let's say that there might be a problem - it's a market, I don't want to deal with it, but those drivers - I used to do driving school at 17, at 18, I started driving - so a lot of these people wouldn't have the money to do it and it would go into 20, 23. So even what has been said here, with the higher content of these cars, so think about this, that regulation can actually be created in this way - the market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u23	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Kukla. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. I've been asking the Minister here, and I haven't been fully answered if he's in favour of increasing speed on our highways, because most of our highways are designed at 120 kilometers per hour. Of course, most of us are driving on those highways, trying to follow about 130, sometimes it gets a little hot like 140, so I'd also be careful in tough sanctions with a little speeding. But I'm certainly not in favour of a speed increase to 150 or so. It was mentioned here that when we look at Western Europe, we approach their rules, but it should be said that, for example, in Germany, speed is limited to 120 on many motorways. There used to be unlimited rides, but there are already many sections that have limited speed. When we look at trends, speed is also limited because of consumption and ecology, because, of course, each of us knows that when the highway goes to the maximum that the law allows it, it has a much higher consumption than when it travels at such a freer pace. So I'd be very careful about increasing speed on our highways, because if we're going down highway 130, we can see cars going around us passing us, and we're going over 150 each, and if we raise it to 150, then everyone's going to be doing 170. And that difference between the cars that are going there at this point at the most 80, and then someone is going to go there 150, and it's going to be allowed speed, so there's going to be clashes. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. The Minister with a point of order? Yes. Please, your two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u26	Just a very brief answer. The bill does not bring a total speed increase of 150 kilometers on motorways. In Poland, for example, there is an increased speed on highways at 140 kilometers. However, we are counting on the possibility in places where safe operation will make it possible on motorways and where construction of these motorways will allow it to increase locally to 150 kilometers, provided modern telematic control and variables of traffic signs. Here we are inspired by a functional model. You mentioned, for example, Germany, Austria, where the speed of vehicles really happens to be cleverly adjusted in relation to climate conditions, the density of traffic, so we also consider it in selected sections of Czech motorways, where it will be safe to drive at the same time as the situation is clear, when the conditions are good, so that there can be a 150 km speed in the defined section. But also when conditions get significantly worse, we need to reduce speed to 80 kilometers per hour. Modern telematics makes that possible. Here I also follow the words of Michal Kučera, who also mentioned it - we are interested in ensuring that, as is the case elsewhere, modern sections of motorways are equipped with gradually modern variable brands, allowing us to control traffic and speed of operation following how dense traffic is and what the current conditions are. [[20.20 hours]] I will use those 30 seconds to answer some of the small questions that have been raised. As far as the point system is concerned - in all the countries where it was introduced, it has proved effective, and in the case of the Czech Republic, there are compelling data that it is an effective measure. As far as minor crossings are concerned within 10 kilometers per hour, such an offence remains without penalty and there is also the lowest zone of up to CZK 1,500.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u27	Thank you, Minister. Now, with Mr Lochman's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, my colleagues, I originally wanted to respond to the 150th, but the Minister has already mentioned most of it. It's really just selected sections and telematic settings. I would like to say that I see this as a subject that goes across clubs and not just political parties. We in our club often discuss this, but someone is for, someone against, it's very different. As for the driver's license for the test, my colleague Kubíček talked about it and there it was said that if he actually ran it the more, the better the drivers are. I agree with that, I would almost say that training makes champions. By the way, I myself gained a driver's license abroad 25 years ago, and it's been 25 years since I got that license, and at that time I had the chance that my father and I were actually going through several situations very often. And here I see it as the biggest plus. However, any record of how much it runs would be administratively very difficult. We talked about it, but it just wouldn't make sense administratively and bureaucratically. It would be difficult at all to find a way to record it. Well, maybe it's just the quickest reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That was the last point in fact, and Mr Exner is now in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am among those who do not think that this is a very good idea. As one of my previous speakers said, they weren't just comrades, even in the West, those speeds were limited because of consumption. And I know we have it in the government's programming statement, but since then, it has just changed that the war and the need to save fuel was more necessary. So even the OECD, even the European Union, proposes either to maintain those speeds at 130 or even to reduce to 120 kilometers per hour. And of course, when we talk about safety, higher speed will certainly not be higher security. And even with that 150, there's more noise, there's higher emissions, and I know what I'm talking about because I live near the highway. And it needs to be realized that I was talking about it with the police officials, that they actually want to allow 150 only where there are three lanes in each direction so that the left lane, the third, is for 150, so that the sections in the Czech Republic will really be very few, and it's very much to think about whether it's 150 in some small sections, and it's going to be a small tens of kilometers, we're not going to provoke those drivers to continue with the 150. That's one point I have. Then the second comment I have on the law is that originally the so-called Duck offenses, the back-up offenses, they had a range of zero to 2,000, where we reduced it to zero to 1,500, although the fines did not change for a very long time and inflation was very large. And I think that there's a bad zero there, because I think that even in these offences, like the bans on entry and stuff like that, it happens in our villages, for example, that the cops know a lot of people, so it's just that there are zero tickets, and I think it's not good. I think it should be 500 to 2,000. [[Minister Kupka and Member Adamec are loudly disturbing the speaker.]] Then another thing that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Gentlemen, just hold on a second. Thank you for the silence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u32	I didn't yell at you either. So another thing, which is in Section 125h, where offenses are solved by the operator, which is the company cars especially, where the driver is not known, so it says that the fine will be at half the lower rate for the offence, which I think is such a motivation that the driver will never confess. And I don't understand why a driver who drives his own car and gets caught should pay twice as much as someone's paying for being caught in a company car and that company is gonna deny it. That's what I think is strictly wrong. And I would like to make one final remark - let's not really open the alcohol. I think in those other countries, we're jealous, and let's just let it go, because I think that would really be massacres. The kind of Saturday, Friday dancers that young people would go there, and I don't think they have that kind of peace. And I know that in other countries, too, they talk about it, that they might like to do it, that it is politically sensitive, but it certainly does not bring more road safety. Please, let's leave the booze with the watermen where we cleared it. I wasn't up for it, but it's a whole other league for cars. So please, let's let the alcohol sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kubíček with a factual remark, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u34	Thanks for the word. I will not forgive myself for being a little ironic to my predecessor, through Madam President: those emission standards need no longer bother us, because we have banned the production of internal combustion engines since 2035, so this obstacle has already fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u35	Thank you. I will read the apologies: Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing since 20 hours for family reasons. I wonder if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Do I question the Minister's final words, the rapporteur? Not interested. As far as I know, there have been no proposals, no returns, no refusals. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? We would therefore proceed to the vote. I'll zagongovat you, please. Would you like to propose a guarantee committee? Well, then, Mr. Ambassador, yes, thank you. [[Mr. Lang.]] I'll get back on track. And we would proceed to the vote on the proposal that we would order the economic committee to discuss this proposal as a guarantee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 49, 153 Members and Members, for 130, against none. The motion was accepted. [[20.30 hours]] I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Yes, please, Mr. Lang.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. As the transport service has been mentioned there, I would also like to order this press to the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-007-010.u37	Yes, does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee to discuss? This is not the case, so we will vote on Mr Lang's proposal to order this proposal to the Security Committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 153 Members and Members signed in for 60, versus 56. The motion was denied. I therefore note that this proposal has not been directed to the next committee. There was no proposal to shorten the deadline in the general debate. This has dealt with all the votes, and I am done discussing this press. Now we would proceed to the next point of what is
