ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road, as amended, and other related laws /house print 286 - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Martin Kupka will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose an amendment to Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on Roads, as amended. Its aim, the aim of the amendment, is to change the legal form of the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic from the current contribution organization to the state enterprise. The aim of this transformation is to ensure, above all, greater efficiency, whether in the area of control, in the area of specific financial flows, but also greater competitiveness in the labour market, so that we can really ensure the best possible level of expertise for the key investor organisation in the future, which has a direct impact on how the investor activity of this organisation will thrive, but also, of course, on the normal maintenance and management of first-class roads and also on motorways, with a state enterprise with the same name, i.e. the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic, which should be established on 1 January 2024. This transformation has been discussed for many years, and of course other forms, such as a joint stock company, have been considered. The detailed analyses in the past period showed that the transformation into a joint-stock company would mean a process that would take a number of years, like ten to twenty, even in view of the necessary settlement of all property relationships under existing roads, first class, first and foremost, but also under some motorways. Therefore, it is proposed to transfer to the form of a state enterprise and thus also to unify legal forms, the approximation of legal forms of institutions that are subordinate to the Ministry of Transport, because another such investor organisation is the Railway Administration, state organisation. I believe that you will be able to get your support for this transformation. This is an important step in order to further develop investor activity, to build a motorway network and to develop a first-class road network, of course. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u3	Thank you, too. I will ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Ondřej Lochman, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u4	Good day, colleagues, members of the government, esteemed colleagues. As has already been said by the Minister, this is an amendment to Act No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The aim is to change the legal form of ŘSD, or Road and Motorway Directorate, which we all know. This recommendation is that the contribution organisation should become a state enterprise, and, as the Minister has already said, it is really about the fact that we are looking for the greatest possible efficiency for the construction in the Czech Republic to move further and for the state property to be better managed. If I could easily compare it, so when someone was working in the government, you know that, for example, when you have a fellowship organization - a school, you have a principal there, of course, you can control the director's goals, but you shouldn't actually interfere so much with the operation itself. It really is such a simplification, but I want to explain what is going on in this change. The point is that we have a state enterprise here that can manage state property very well and efficiently and speed up construction. And if we look at the transport budget that has been approved, we need to accelerate the construction of both highway bodies and first-class roads. With regard to the change, one of the reasons why the change is planned is also the remuneration of employees. The ŘSD has a long-term base in its tables and one of the reasons, if I really simplify it again, is that they are rewarded through the tables. And then the organization can't be that competitive. Many of its services are obtained by so-called outsourcing, thus ordering services outside its own organization. The form of both a state enterprise and a state organisation and a public limited company was considered. Finally, even after the recommendation The Government's Legislative Council was designed by a state enterprise. I would also like to remind you that when I looked into this in detail, we already had a comparison at the Ministry during the previous parliamentary term, there was a comparison of legal forms in previous parliamentary periods, and previous governments were deciding how best to grasp the organisation. We are therefore inclined to this form, and I, as rapporteur, recommend that we be at first reading in order to order the Committee on Economic Affairs to move this to further reading and subsequently approve it in the second and third reading here at the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u5	Thank you, too. I am now opening a general debate in which I have Mr Ivan Adamec signed up and then Mr Martin Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u6	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I must say that I welcome this legal change. I welcome it because if you look at the problem of building lines, today you'll find that actually the easiest part is the final part, the building itself. You have to say that's just the way it is. When the so-called first dungeon kicks, then it's already won, then it's all running, and if of course there's any complications during the construction, then they'll be solved very quickly. The problem, however, is the preparation of these buildings, and here I would say that this is the so-called poodle core, because, as I would say, the organization in its current form is configured, so I would say that there is no greater courage, actionability, determination and also take responsibility for its decisions, because, as it is set, it is such a cat dog. Personally, I would also prefer the sharper legal form of the company, but given the problems that have been announced here, we will see what this change will bring to the state enterprise, but it must certainly be said that the current situation cannot be extended further. I have already said here that I have experience, in our case within the D11 construction region, when the documentation for the zoning management took the appropriate 504 days. If you convert it into years, you'll find it's over a year and a half. So I welcome it because it needs to be speeded up. We can't just complain that we have complicated legislation, but we need someone to take it with their own responsibility, and with some move to the goal, they're gonna move the building forward. So I would ask the sněmovna of Honor to perceive this step positively, to support it. I think that when the ŘSD starts to work as a state enterprise, we will find that after some time we can evaluate whether the change was positive enough, or whether we may have to decide on some more courageous form to motivate, schedule and reward workers in this field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u7	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the next logged in, I'm just gonna load up the apology. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 13:30 to 14:00 for work reasons, Mr Tomio Okamura from 13:30 for work reasons and Minister Vít Rakušan from 12:00 to 14:00 for work reasons. That would settle the apology. [[13.40 hours]] [[Member Martin Kolovratík is reporting.]] Of course, I'm giving you my word. I'm just reminding you that for 13.45 hours, we have fixed voting points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u8	Hello, good afternoon from me. I will respond to President Ivan Adamec. For the opposition or for the YES movement, I will say that we will be in agreement, that I do not feel any contradiction there anymore for the reason that was mentioned in the opening words of the Minister. The material we have here is based on the government's material intention, Resolution 716 of 23 August 2021. So the proposal was prepared by the previous government of the YES movement, we have actually discussed this many times on the Economic Committee, and it is good that this thing is moving. I will not delay the recapitulation of these negotiations, that is what the rapporteur said. Indeed, more options have been considered in the negotiations between the Legislative Council of the Government and the Ministry of Transport. I understand, therefore, that there is a consensus on how it is proposed that the existing ŘSD does not cease and that a new organisation does not arise, but according to paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) As of 1 January 2024, the current state organisation will be converted into a state enterprise. So to keep my promise not to delay this point unnecessarily, I'm calling for us to agree and support this law. I'll ask the Minister, or I'll address the Minister with one thing, let's say, with a potentially weaker meeting place that I've identified there. There may not be an answer now, but I'll ask you in advance after we're on the Economic Committee. In part two, the SFDI Act is also changing in this proposal, and it is now clearly proposed that a three-year contract will be concluded between the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and the new organisation, based on the scope of the infrastructure managed, on the investment plan and so on. There's this standard link. The contents of the contract or the wording of the contract will be laid down by a decree, the classically legal standard. Here, let me remind you of what we often said on the Economic Committee about other laws, that we approve the law, but then we don't know what they're going to look like or what the contours of those decrees are going to be. So I will ask the Minister, because he may not have it in his head right now, it is not even possible, but I will ask the Economic Committee to try to see, at least in the basic respects, what is the idea of the Ministry for the content of the decree, or the contract, which should then be concluded. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-11-ps2021-050-02-005-009.u9	Thank you, too. I no longer see anybody logged in to the debate. Indeed, this is not the case, so I am ending the debate. We will now consider the proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking, does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? In the meantime, I'm gonna go get my co-workers and co-workers from the lobby. There is no other proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I will just repeat for those who are coming: we will vote on the Economic Committee as a guarantee. [[Checkout request.]] Okay, I'll check everyone out. Please log in again with your identification cards. I have begun the vote on bringing the proposal forward for discussion to the Economic Committee. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 45 vote, 145 Members and Members were enrolled, for 134, against 0. This proposal was adopted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, so I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? It's not like that. This means that I can end the discussion of this point and open the following point. I feel a lot of emotion, yes. Item No
