ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 53rd session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. To record our involvement, I've just checked you all out. Please re-enlist with your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is asking for a replacement card, as Mr Lacina, who will vote with card number 23, Mrs Decroix with card number 27 and Mr Bžoch with card number 20. I hereby declare that the absence of participation in the proceedings was requested by the following Members from 16 o'clock for health Karel, Ryba Jana from the whole working day, Bartošek Jan from the whole Babišová day for personal Hofmann, Bašta Jaroslav from the whole working day for health Rais, Bauer Jana from the Pavel Růžička Svoboda for Vrána Petr, Blaha Stanislav from the vlček Lukáš day, Brož Lubomír from the whole Drahoslav day for Výborný Marek, Zajíčková Renáta from the whole Pražák Jan for the Nováková working day for the whole working day, Heller Šimon from the whole working day without giving a reason, kolovratník Martin from the Nina working Hendrych for personal Igor, Horák Jiří from the whole Okamura Hayato for Milan of the case, for Tureček of international travel, Jílková Marie from the whole working day for the whole working day for the whole working day without an indication of the reason, Kasal David for the whole David day for the Šimek working reason, for the whole of the whole Šafránková Lucie, Kolohradý The members of the government apologize Balaš Vladimír from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Blažek Pavel from the whole day of the hearing for health reasons, Černochová Jana from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Jurečka Marian from the whole day of the meeting due to foreign travel, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Stanjura Zbyněk from the whole day of the meeting for personal reasons and Válek Vlastimil for the whole day of the meeting for working reasons. Madam Members, I would now like to inform you of the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. Firstly, we propose to include the following points on the agenda of the 53rd meeting: the House Press 107/2, the Product Market Supervision Act, returned to the Senate; The House's Press 328, the Government's Bill on a Single Environmental Opinion, Second and Third Reading; House printing 329, Government bill on a single environmental opinion related, second and third reading; House print 330, amendment to the construction law, second and third reading. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week - today discussing points in order: a new point, House press 107/2, the Product Market Surveillance Act, returned to the Senate; a new point, House press 328, a government bill on the Single Environmental Opinion, second reading; new point, House print 329, government bill on the Single Environmental Opinion - related, second reading, and new point, House print 330, amendment to the Construction Act, second reading. Furthermore, we would continue the points according to the approved agenda of the meeting, i.e. the laws at first reading. At the end of today's meeting, we would interrupt the 53rd meeting by Friday, 10 March to 9 o'clock. Tomorrow, on Wednesday, 8 March, we would act as follows: at 9 o'clock we will continue the interrupted 54th meeting, House press 263, government amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, third reading. At 15 o'clock, the 58th meeting for the Parliamentary Press 234, the MP's amendment on state social support, first reading, will begin. The 59th meeting will start at 16 o'clock, Food Prices in the Czech Republic. The 60th meeting will begin at 17 o'clock, the situation in the Czech Post. At 5:30 p.m., 61st meeting, Economic and Social Impacts of the introduction of Euro 7 standard into the industry of the Czech Republic will begin. On Thursday, 9 March, the first joint meeting of the two chambers of the Parliament of the Czech Republic will be opened at 14 o'clock for the composition of the pledge of the President of the Republic in the Prague Castle Hall of Vladislav. On Friday, 10 March, we would continue at 9 o'clock the suspended 53rd meeting, point 98, i.e. the House Press 288, the government amendment on employee protection, third reading. We would then continue the points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. At 12 o'clock, we will begin the 62nd meeting, the House press 54, the parliamentary amendment on salary and other requirements relating to the exercise of the office of representatives of the State, first reading, pursuant to § 90 para. 2. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. Now it is possible to speak with proposals for a change of programme, I have several entries here. President Benda withdraws his application, so we will continue. President Okamura is the first to be logged in - I don't see him here. Therefore, with priority rights, then, Mrs Schillerová, followed by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, unless someone with priority rights appears. I beg all of you, colleagues, to be quiet in the hall. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back to last week and summarize what was actually going on here and what happened here. I will not repeat the arguments that have been raised here for five days and four nights, so I will not go back to the proposal itself. Then you have to answer your own questions to those people you're probably taking money from illegally. Perhaps I would just raise a question which I do not expect an answer to now, because the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is supposedly in the United States at a conference on women's rights. But here I would like to emphasise one more thing that Czech Television came up with and we haven't mentioned here all last week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u3	I'm sorry, Madam President, but there's still a lot of noise, so I'm going to ask my colleague and colleagues to move into the lobby. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u4	Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Marian Jurečka, on 22 January 2023, I repeat again, on 22 January 2023, on Czech Television Questions Václav Moravec said that there will be nothing to do with June's Valorisation because, and that is important, it cannot be done, because it has already been claimed, and therefore legitimate expectations have arisen, and that it cannot yet act unconstitutionally. This is easily traceable on the website of Czech Television, and another Czech TV show came up with it this Sunday. So again, he said those words on January 22, 2023. I am glad that the Senate's constitutional-legal committee has had the same opinion today, and I only strongly hope that it will confirm this in plenary, which means that the Senate will actually become a guarantee of constitutionality and a guarantee of democracy. [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] But now back to what happened here, because I have to tell you, I've been absorbing it for a very long time. The whole thing began with this completely senseless and unconstitutional negotiation in a state of legislative emergency - a powerful instrument which, by its very nature, is already restricting the rights of the opposition, and therefore the strict conditions for its activation are so strict. So the five-calice, your five-calice, has distorted everything that has been crooked, bent by laws, or, more precisely, probably broken, and voted for a legislative emergency. Since we received a shocking e-mail from the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, that she is declaring a state of legislative emergency, we draw attention to the fact that the case law of the Constitutional Court is clear. The discussion of the draft law, which is to amend the rules for the valorisation of pensions in a state of legislative emergency, is not constitutionally consistent. In particular, we consider it clear that the payment of pensions at the statutory level cannot in any way be regarded as economic damage within the meaning of Section 99 (1) of the Treaty. 1 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. However, the other criteria required by the Constitutional Court's findings for the discussion of the draft law in a state of legislative emergency were not met, which unfortunately did not bother the President of the Lower House of Parliament to deal with even one minute, and the arguments that she had to act under the Rules of Procedure - but could, of course, comment on such a situation. But that only started her critical failure last week. Subsequently, she put an end to the debate in which we drew attention to the illegal move. You didn't even have the courage to let our Members speak without prior rights. Not even a member of the club's position could speak, and as I looked at it, this happened for the first time in the history of this Parliament. And in the end, you didn't even allow us to submit counterproposals. That's the kind of heroes you were. But that was not the end of it, rather the opposite. You like to talk about yourself as a demo block or a coalition of democratic parties. [[Votes calling for silence are being heard in plenary.]] So, for the first time in history, your democratic coalition canceled the general debate during a state of legislative emergency. This, ladies and gentlemen, did not happen even during the most difficult covid, when this House acted in a limited regime. In fact, I do not know how much more democratic rights of the opposition can be combated. And the highlight of everything came in a detailed debate where you took the opposition and the last rights that we have left. You have, in fact, abolished factual remarks and seized preferential rights. You have done so in direct conflict with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I don't know if you've realized that we could win and get the elderly to get their money, but this is a step that you've exceeded absolutely everything. That's why it all ended up in that situation on Friday night. It was nothing more than that the opposition claimed its rights. And now I'm getting to the point of what I wanted to talk about. I see the main responsibility in the totally out of control of the situation on the part of the President of the Adamová Chamber of Deputies, and it was not the first time. It's more of a rule. The meeting does not run sideways, but, in any questionable situation, it dresses the party jersey and moves in favour of the government coalition. This is in direct conflict not only with her own words, which she made immediately after her election, but also with the Rules of Procedure of this House, i.e. with the law, that the function is to be exercised over-partyly. The President has failed absolutely to address, rather than address the tense situation at the end of Friday. First of all, the situation never had to happen and it didn't have to happen. At that moment, I repeatedly challenged her, and I was not alone in order to summon the grémium immediately, where we could solve the situation. She refused, she refused repeatedly. I have to ask, when else should a grémium be called together for a meeting than at such a heated moment? Finally, Prime Minister Fiala intervened instead, who called the meeting himself, thereby confirming its inability and unwillingness to act. We think that President Adamová simply does not have the capacity for this position, and that is why we have collected signatures to which some of the SPD Members have joined in order to fill the number of 80 Members, we have more than 80, and we are filing a motion for its appeal. It is the only possible response to her actions last week, which has definitively confirmed that she does not have the personal prerequisites to continue to lead the Chamber of Deputies. It fails to manage the lower chamber, cannot conduct a non-ideological political dialogue and communicate in a way that is necessary for this constitutional function. That's why we're going to demand her appeal. I will deliver the signatures with the accompanying letter to the Office of the President of the Chamber of Deputies today, and this week I will endeavour to put this item on the agenda of some meetings, I suppose, as soon as all the deadlines are met. So that's what I felt obliged to say as an imaginary dot about what happened here and happened last week. It's not over for us. Today we delivered a letter to the newly elected President of the Republic to Mr Petr Pavel. We have asked, me and Vice-President of the House, Karel Havlíček, for a meeting where we want to inform the President of the newly elected about the situation that has happened here and give his view of the matter. We believe that we will succeed and that we will talk to Mr. President. And since you will probably demand the title of the point that I propose here, I propose an explanation of the contradiction of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of Marian Jurečka's comments on what he said on 22 January 2023, and what position he took to slow down pension valorisation three weeks later. So the explanation of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, to include it as the first item today. [[14.20 hours]] I believe the Prime Minister, who I just saw in the hall, can give the explanation. Finally, the Prime Minister did not perform for the whole week, so now he will have a chance to finally comment on this issue. I propose to include this as the first point of today's negotiations, if I am not satisfied, as the first point of the negotiations on Friday. I'm sure the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will be here by now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u5	Following with the priority right of Vice-President Dostálová, the President of Okamura will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we will probably have all the building regulations at the meeting, so I considered it reasonable and correct if we could also assign paragraph 84, print 295, which concerns the Line Act. The authors of this press are across the political spectrum, Mr Adamec, Mr Blažek, Mr Dostálová, Schillerová, Prime Minister Fiala, Mr Výborný, Mr Müller, Mr Válek and Minister Kupka. What's going on in that law is just a quick reminder. The Line Act regulates the procedures for the preparation of the deployment and authorisation of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure. The Line Act in Section 1 defines individual infrastructures which can benefit mainly from the acceleration of their ownership preparation, placement, authorisation and authorisation of their use. At the same time, it defines two definitions of energy infrastructure, namely the definition of energy infrastructure according to § 1 para. 4 line law and definition of selected buildings of energy infrastructure. However, the heating infrastructure within the meaning of the Energy Act is only included under the first of these definitions, or energy infrastructure, as a heating energy supply system, whereas, within the second of the definitions of the selected construction of the energy infrastructure, the heating infrastructure is not defined. At the same time, the construction of the heating infrastructure is not yet included in the annex to the Line Act, so that representatives of the heating infrastructure can benefit from speeding up the property preparation through the full scope of the interim decision adjustment. The proposal therefore aims, first and foremost, to achieve equality of importance and importance between the various energy areas defined in the Energy Act by including heating infrastructure as part of the definition of selected energy infrastructure structures, i.e. heat distribution equipment. At present, there is no rational reason for all social issues relating to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and dependence on natural gas, so that the heating infrastructure is not included in the definition of selected energy infrastructure structures. And if it's included, and that's what the proposal is, it could benefit from accelerating processes established by the Linen Law. I would therefore like to ask, given that the Government has also given a favourable opinion on this parliamentary proposal, to include this point today after the thousands relating to the construction procedure, i.e. 328, 329 and 330, that is to say after paragraph 330. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u7	Thank you. Mr Okamura will now appear and follow Mrs Pokorná Jermanová on the agenda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD together with the ANO movement has filed a motion for the appeal of President Pekarová Adamová, as has already been said here. Yes, we believe that the President of the House and, at the same time, TOP 09 Markéta Pekarová Adamová does not really manage the position of President of the House in the long term. It really culminated in what happened here last week, when the President of the House Pekarová Adamová interrupted the legislative process in violation of the law, and the highlight of that moment was the late Friday evening, when, contrary to Section 67 of the House Rules of Procedure Act, she withdrew the right to speak with priority rights to Members, Club Presidents, MPs, opposition MPs and opposition party chairmen. Then it caused a very inadequate situation here. Then the government coalition realized it, revisited basically the original vote, and acknowledged the error that, in fact, in violation of the law, our word was taken away. This means that this was indeed a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure Act, and in addition, there has been a situation here that, after we protested at this stand, directly at this microphone, against this undemocratic act, and against this, in my opinion, the anti-constitutional political coup by the Purple Government, which it really had already been launched, I was here personally calling on President Pekarová Adamová to call on the Grémium to set it straight, and President Pekarová Adamová refused. She said "no" and said we should leave the counter. We've all heard it, we've heard it on TV from those noise microphones. This means that you still insisted on continuing to break the law rather than calling the grémium as it was for me when I was still in charge of the House last term, so it was clearly stated during these trainings that it is appropriate to call a grémium to discuss these things with a cool mind and to assess them. This means that President Pekarová Adamová is not really competent and is not capable of managing such a complex institution as the Chamber of Deputies, because you simply have a dominant activism and not a political approach. I think what you did here just last week, that it's really an appeal from the position of president of the House. That is why we have also joined each other, with the other opposition party, with the YES movement, we have filed the document for the appeal of the President of the House of Pekarová Adamová. Of course, there's a lot more of these excesses from our point of view. You said you promised here a year ago that you would be President of the House of Members of Parliament, the entire Chamber of Deputies, but your entire negotiations testify to the very opposite. You're labeling opposition parties here with completely inadequate, insulting attributes, of course you're totally avoiding government five-calices, you're not the president of all of them. I think it's a big disappointment, it's a big disappointment. And there's these things that you're breaking here in this way, there's a lot of them. Of course, last but not least, it is from our point of view, but I think that the Constitutional Court will then consider that you have also pushed through the law in a legislative emergency, even though it does not meet the conditions of legislative emergency, and so on. But they're more like seed beads. What really happened here that Friday night, that's just a situation that we believe is about your appeal, and that's why we filed it. And I must say that this is a great shame, because in the history of Parliament, it is not so common for Members to agree that they collect 80 signatures that are needed for the vote on the appeal of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. It's a big shame, it's really... I see this as a major failure to you, but we, considering all your actions so far, have had to do so. And of course, it is also for the image of the Czech Republic, as well as for the image of the Chamber of Deputies, where, in my opinion, trust from citizens is greatly trampled by your leadership. I don't think it's good, but unfortunately, it's the result of your behavior and your attitude. I am, of course, also personally signed there on the application, I would like to make that point, and it has a real basis. [[14.30 hours]] It has a completely different basis than when you, the members of the government coalition, tried to remove me from the position of Vice-President of the House during the last parliamentary term. That was a completely false political, purposeful effort, because whoever was here, so you know that after six months, based on two expert reports, the police investigated my statements, and all those about ten criminal reports based on your angry campaign put it all off with the fact that I didn't do anything. So it really was completely flagrant, what totalitarian, and when I say fascinating methods, my Fialův government five-calice, because I didn't do anything, and I would have been removed by a Fialův government five-calice out of position long ago, which didn't happen. When the police found nothing against the law, wrong, and not even historically bad, and I should be dismissed on the basis of the false arguments of Fialův's five-calice government right here with the President of the House of Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who was one of the main instigators, and Mr Bartošek back then and so forth, of the people's. So that's how a government five-callice bullies innocent people who turn out to have done nothing at all. And the expert reports will confirm it, and the police will postpone the whole thing, the false criminal charges. That's the government's five-caliber approach. But here the situation is completely different, there are clear reasons. Let us now go to my proposals for extraordinary points. As the first item in the extraordinary meeting, today's extraordinary meeting, I would like to propose a point called the Fialův Government's new programming declaration has broken its pre-election vows. And now I'd like to explain. The Fialův Government will severely harm Czech citizens, including pensioners and families with children. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS published a new form of its programming statement last week. This document contains many intentions that the SPD fundamentally rejects. For example, the government has postponed by a year the revision of the functioning of the government in terms of its effectiveness, which would be a possible basis for effective restrictions on state bureaucracy. The programme statement also dropped the proposal to introduce a tax brake that would prohibit tax growth if the tax quota was exceeded. This entitles us to worry that the government intends to increase some taxes, such as property or excise duties. Government officials also talk about increasing compulsory insurance contributions for businessmen or, most recently, the cancellation of the discount on the wife or husband or the cancellation of the so-called kindergarten fee, which is a tax discount on the cost of placing the child in preschool facilities. A statement as opposed to its original version also lacks an obligation to maintain the existing form of pension valorisation mechanism. Thus, the government intends to reduce pension valorisation on a permanent basis, not just this June. The programme declaration also dropped the promised VAT reduction for the construction or reconstruction of flats and houses or reduced depreciation for residential projects to 20 years. We consider this to be inexcusable in the present situation of a catastrophic shortage of affordable apartments for Czech citizens, especially young families. In the opinion of the SPD, such a fundamental change in the government's programming declaration during the parliamentary term, which, among other things, also means violating many pre-election promises of government parties, must lead to a new vote on trust by the government in the Chamber of Deputies, because trust was originally given by the five-police Members under different conditions with other promises and commitments. We have already called you here to do this last time, that it would be fair - and it would be especially right, not only fair - it would be right for your government to ask the Chamber of Deputies again for confidence, because it is truly unheard of that after a year of ruling such a crucial document, which is based on the activities of the entire government of the Czech Republic, which controls the lives of 10 million citizens, suddenly the government's declaration in violation of the electoral promises will change with your pre-election promises. And you turned it down. You don't want to ask the House for confidence again, so it's another voter scam because you promised something before the election, you broke it, now you put it on paper in black and white, and you don't want it to be discussed in front of your constituents in the House. So, of course, that's wrong. I know you're afraid you're afraid, you're afraid of the opposition, because otherwise, of course, you'd be asking for that trust here. But most importantly, I'm not really, frankly, impressed by the fact that you're afraid of your constituents, because your voters wouldn't... [[♪ ……]] You should explain aloud to them why you are changing all possible major pre-election promises and changing your programming statements. The fact that we told you when the government voted on trust that your programming statement was stupid, that it was wrong written, that it was unrealistic, that you were lying to citizens - that's what we were telling you, and you were saying the opposite. Now you've been with the government for a year and something, and you're changing your own programming government statement because you know it's completely out of reality. That means, this is a really incredible situation that's happening here. It's another field of democracy, and I'm surprised that the media is writing so little about it, because anyone else is gonna do this, so they're gonna blow it apart, because it's really contrary to democratic principles, and the government statement about such fundamental changes -- yeah, if they were cosmetic, but in such fundamental changes in the problem statement, you should just ask for the House's trust again. That would be a fair approach, it would be a really strong government approach, and it would be a really strong Prime Minister's approach. But as we can see, we can't expect Prime Minister Petr Fiala to do that at all. So I would like to put this as the first special point on today's House of Deputies programme, and it is a point called the Fialův Government's new programming declaration has broken its pre-election vows. As a second special item at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today, I would like to give a point entitled Millions of crowns for humanitarian benefits or contributions to Ukrainians have been stolen. What's it about? I think we all know what's going on here. And the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, as well as Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, made it possible to steal social benefits by his incompetence. For example, the iDNES portal brought information last week. According to him, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs led by Marian Jurečka from KDU-ČSL launched an electronic system - so last year - which automatically handles some applications for social benefits without the intervention of officials. For example, for applications for solidarity household contributions for Ukrajinec accommodation, officials had no opportunity to intervene because they were being processed by a robot. At the same time, this system did not reveal many frauds and, according to the workers of the Labour Office, it paid many millions of crowns completely unjustly. Deputy Director of the Labour Office and Deputy Minister Jurečka Karel Trpkoš responded scandalously by saying that the application saves tens of millions of crowns and the millions abused are only a fraction of them. Workers of the Labour Office have also stated in their complaint that it is not possible to verify whether they are staying in our territory or whether they are working here, and yet they are applying for social benefits. For example, the automatic system also sent hundreds of thousands of crowns to one account for various applicants, although one household could under law receive a maximum of CZK 15,000 a month. The SPD movement considers this matter to be a very significant failure of Minister Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, who is responsible for this area and his incompetence enabled and tolerated the abuse and theft of social benefits. We demand his immediate resignation. The SPD movement had already drafted and submitted a bill that would have ended the abuse of social benefits, but members of the government coalition rejected it in the House - last year. Our citizens are in the first place for the SPD movement, so there is a really serious case, another serious case in the government coalition, when according to the employees of the Labour Office, he paid the system under Minister Jurečka from KDU-ČSL millions of CZK, and also his representative at the Ministry has been calling into question that stealing is actually okay, or stealing or using public money. So here you can see that the activism that the Fialův government is showing at the expense of caring for a proper economy, at the expense of achieving the public funds properly, really surpassing any conceivable limits. So I would like to re-enlist, repeat it again, as the second item of the Chamber of Deputies meeting, I would like to place an extraordinary item entitled Millions of crowns for humanitarian benefits or contributions to Ukrainians have been stolen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u9	Vice-President Skopeček reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Well, Madam President, I thought we did it last week, that today we would be discussing important things, such as the construction law, which this country certainly needs. All right, though. I want to ask you if you will propose an appeal by the President, whether you will include two Vice-Presidents, who were approved by the majority of the Chamber of Deputies last week against holding a meeting, or only go after the coalition representatives of the House, or whether you will be fair and admit that your two colleagues from your club have been... and they have been voted against. You will treat this fairly, and you will propose an appeal to them from the House's leadership, won't you? I'd like to ask you that. [[President Schiller responds from the bench.]] I say it without wanting to stir up a feud. In my vote against them, I abstained more from being purely loyal, because I consider them to be colleagues in the House's leadership, and I know how difficult it is to run the meeting when there is noise, when there are emotions, so I did not want to distinguish whether their progress was really deliberate in any way, or whether it was triggered by the emotions and the mess that was in the Chamber of Deputies. I've been loyal to this, fair and square, but if that's the way you want to proceed, that's the way the question sounds. To the President of the SPD, Okamur, who said about bullying people and bullying Members. Mr President, I remember the pandemic law that you also attacked in the Constitutional Court. In the context of the suit, there was a complaint against me as Vice-President of the House, who was also in charge of the meeting at that time. You criticized my procedure, sued the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court dropped the lawsuit. Your reaction - zero, not a word of apology. So I just want to say that in my opinion, you're going to end up the same way in this case, I'm just curious if you're going to be this guy again in quotes that you're going to apologize or not. As for the image of our country, which the President spoke of. I think everyone who's been watching last week has to take a picture. I think that if something damaged our country's image, it was a scene that took place behind this counter, where the chumel of opposition Members gathered, who at that time were unable to respect the democratic majority in this Chamber of Deputies, and the images from this House reminded Parliaments rather east of us, and I may still be wrong about that east.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u11	I beg you to address me through me. President Schillerová is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to ask, by your means, you, Vice-President Skopeček, do not need to propose any point on the agenda of the meeting? He can just sit here and talk about what he wants? So I will follow the Rules of Procedure and propose a point of reaction to the Vice-President of the House of Mr Skopeček. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] So, Mr Vice-President, you typically showed the one wearing the party shirt, exactly typical. My colleagues, Vice-Presidents of the House - Klára Dostálová, Karel Havlíček - and I have been here almost continuously for five days and four nights, except for some short exceptions, which I have mostly tried to get into, but sometimes I have not been here for a short time - I have been here all along and I know how inconspicuous the situation has been, and I have not found anything unusual in their management. On the contrary, I would say that my colleague, Karel Havlíček, tried to make decisions and extend the negotiations as long as possible. I think it's beautifully traceable in the tapestry, so here you're showing that you're really just holding a battalion in the sense of a party t-shirt. I have justified my proposal, and I have not put it on the agenda of the meeting, if you have noticed, Mr Vice-President, through Madam President, aware that it has not yet been submitted, it will be delivered today, aware that it will simply be included, that it has some procedure. I've informed the House here, and the point I've finally placed has a completely different name, and it doesn't concern this matter. So I'd like to make that clear. And the building bill, just to the edge. We could veto today, I could veto here today the classification of the construction law and the press related to it. I'm not gonna do it because that's exactly the law - you finally figured it out - for the people of this country. Our Member, Vice-President of the House of Klára Dostálová, has worked an incredible piece of work on this, an incredible piece of work - she has managed, of course, to negotiate a complex compromise in cooperation with the representatives of the five-wheelers, and we are now a very important step further. That is why we want this law to be discussed. But I'm sorry, after what happened last week, I'd consider it completely insincere if we were smiling at each other right now and not saying what we're feeling. And I think I have spoken for many Members of this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. [[Weak applause from members of the ANO movement.]] Line up today after fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u13	Yes. With priority rights, we are more benevolent when it comes to performing, but in this regard, to everyone here in this House, but I have it marked. [[Dissenting views of the opposition.]] I've got it marked. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is now reporting for the agenda, followed by Mr Farhan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u14	Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the House to pre-classify paragraph 83, Parliament's Press 294, as the first item in today's negotiations. It is the law put forward by Mr Andrej Babiš and other Members, which amends Act No. 348/2005 Coll., on radio and television charges, and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. In this law, it is proposed that the listed vulnerable groups of persons who have been facing an increased health, financial and social burden over the past two years and who continue to face a significant rise in energy prices, food and other basic commodities in order to be exempted from the obligation to pay licence fees in order to improve their overall social status. This is one of the efforts to create an environment in which particularly vulnerable groups of people could operate without greater limits and barriers to social interaction. One of the partial instruments to this end is the overall reduction in the cost of living of these people, albeit at first glance negligible, but in its summary representing a substantial burden. In particular, it should be subject to the proposed legislation for persons entitled to an old-age or invalidity pension or to a disability card. I would like to ask that we discuss this point already in the light of the fact that in recent days, the government Members have reduced the valorisation of their pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u15	Thank you for the proposal. Mr Farhan follows and Mr Brázdil prepares himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to include the point of the Minister of Health's misconceptions and the availability of healthcare. The chaos we're watching here, I think it's worth the suspension. The Minister of Health comes again and again with a statement that brings confusion between patients and doctors. Some patients, especially those older, more vulnerable and economically less happy, actually often also frighten, and it is not found in any computer game, but we are found in real life. In fact, it threatens the public with new payments using urgent income in hospitals, medical emergency services, and above-standard health care, which are more or less indeterminate, so it can hide basically anything under his designs. And why does the minister do that? Does he deliberately want to cause chaos? [[14.50 hours]] I believe that this may not be the case, but until a few months ago, Minister Válek assured us all, including the entire government coalition, that if they took 14 billion health care payments from the state insurance company, no one would even know, because health care is drowning in money. Everything is watered by the sun, there's enough money for all health care. That is why, across from as if by acclamation, the government did not compensate health workers for even historically high inflation in a newly approved valorisation mechanism. Therefore, there is no increase in the salaries of paramedics in the Ministry of Controlled Hospitals. Real income of doctors and nurses falls as with other employees, the fastest and most in the history of the Czech Republic, and this is a disgrace to the government of Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u17	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down. So, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u18	Therefore, it will again be more attractive for Czech health professionals to work in neighbouring Germany, Austria, where salaries are still significantly higher. And maybe I can just say here, these are your promises: money is enough, everything is watered by the sun, money will not be missed, and yet one day you will burn that there will be excesses, the second time that there will be fees for urgent income. The Minister of Health is haunting people with new payments that some of them might be able to make sure they don't call the rescue service in fear of being paid for it. For a certain part of society, it can be very stressful, sometimes life-threatening, and from my point of view it is not only inhumane for the elderly. While the Minister's remarks are denied by the Bureau of his own TOP 09 party, in which he is Vice-President, sometimes the Prime Minister disassociates himself on behalf of the entire government coalition, the damage is done in public space. Nobody reads the collections of laws and watches every day which law has come into force and which doesn't. The Minister of Health said it in the papers, he's a professor, so it's most likely true. The older people won't say, "It's most likely true, they'll say, "That's right, the minister said it." Therefore, the behavior of the Minister of Health is not only chaotic but also dangerous. So that the Minister of Health does not frighten people with unsubstantiated proposals for measures and cause undesirable behaviour of patients, which may in some cases threaten the health and the lives of patients, I would like to propose not a resolution, but a recommendation to this government that the government impose on the Minister of Health that it will stick to its statements, and I stress that at least the government's programming statement to stop scaring patients, to stop scaring fellow citizens, to stop scaring anyone who has no support for either the government or the Prime Minister or his party. Otherwise, it would need the Ministry to start dealing with measures that will not be taken on pointless proposals for charging urgent hospital income and rescue services. A far greater problem are waiting times for examination and diagnosis as well as to ensure emergency service. The problem is the lack of doctors. First it is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of health services and only then to consider and prevent their possible overuse. I have been intersecting the Minister of Health for several months about the shortcomings in the area of waiting times and medical staff. In addition to rhetoric, however, the Ministry does not come up with any proposals for solutions, which is why I propose this point, which I called Misguided statements by the Minister of Health and the availability of healthcare. I suggest we place it as a point after the already firmly placed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Brázdil is now ready and then followed by Mr Juchelka, the very last member so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u20	Good afternoon, colleagues, Tuesday. You know that I repeatedly try to propose a new point of the program Solution of medical rescue services in the Czech Republic as one institution, as well as firefighters and cops. However, you don't give it, you go against it, it's even a point that if the minister were interested and wanted to deal with it, you don't want to vote. However, I would now come up with another - just removing a certain view of saving human life, and that is the classification of the abuse point, overuse of the medical rescue service. In connection with what we have just heard from Kamal Farhan, who has dealt with this comprehensively, what the government actually wants to reduce in some way, to make it easier to strangle those urgent revenues from being overwhelmed, but you know what's going on at the ambulance - the medical rescue service in this republic is actually driving and replacing the missing doctors, the missing emergency room. It's just that the 14 billion we've collected from the health services are now showing up, the care, the level and accessibility are falling. I would like to place that point, remove it from what my colleague Kamal Farhan said, and deal with it only separately, only the overuse or abuse of the rescue service. I think we understand that no fee will solve this. A person who doesn't have a heart attack, doesn't breathe or is unconscious, who's in danger of losing his vitals, probably won't even make a phone call. Who, then, will pay for him to receive or come to him? Then who was it that called? Some guy called it in. Is he gonna pay for this? Or people who are mentally ill or just... There are so many unknowns that, unlike what Kamal Farhan just criticized here, I would lean towards putting that point in order for the minister to say what he imagined, maybe he has a solution, and I would like that, because it concerns each of you. One day, when the ambulance is abused, maybe it won't get to you. We don't have backup. And if they're somewhere providing care to the one who shouldn't have called and just abused an ambulance, then you're not getting the treatment. So once again, I beg you to include this point of abuse, overuse of the medical rescue service, and I would like to put it before the already listed point by Kamal Farhan or his proposal to be dealt with as a front-runner before the complex one, and these are the fees and solutions to the issue that he mentioned here. I beg you to put him in front of his point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u21	Mr. Ambassador, if this doesn't work out, that's the last item on your application for the 53rd meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u22	Thank you, yes, you're right, if it didn't pass, at least put it in a way that could be discussed, maybe then you'll say, yes, the point is good - just like last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u23	Last item in the 53rd meeting, as stated in the application. I'm writing. Now, please, Mr Juchelka, who is, or certainly, the last performer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u24	Thank you, Madam President, I will be very brief. I'm going to follow up with my colleague Okamura, who's already indicated it here, except my point name will be a little more peaceful, it'll be called the current situation at the Labor Offices. I will take it from a different point of view here, from the point of view of the Committee on Social Policy, where we have been assured several times, by Minister Jurečka, who unfortunately is not here, because he is fulfilling his responsibilities to the UN Women's Commission in New York and will arrive tomorrow that digitization works, that it works perfectly, as far as humanitarian benefits are concerned, and as far as the solidarity contribution to accommodation is concerned. I can say that I was very shocked when I learned that it wasn't really like this, I was even at the office of work to look at it. And indeed, the solidarity contribution to accommodation is abused, when even one Ukrajinka was paid to the Czech bank, which pointed it out, CZK 1.3 million. I saw other items there that were really hundreds of thousands, and if Deputy Director Trpkoš, now Chief Director, had not assured us on every committee on social policy that it was okay, that nothing was going on, that the control mechanisms worked, that it was actually awfully easy to apply for a solidarity contribution to accommodation and humanitarian benefits, I would not be standing here. And even Mr. Chief Executive Officer Trpkoš tells me: I refuse to comment on this, as he told journalists who drew attention to this problem. You know, the Social Policy Committee has been assured several times that digitization is really the main thing that MPSV wants to do at the office of work at the moment. The main thing was the housing allowance, of course, it was a little more cumbersome, I understand, it was an older dose, but the new ones, such as the humanitarian contribution and solidarity contribution to accommodation, were supposed to be completely calm, automatic. And since internal sources indicate that the control mechanisms of this benefit have been shut down, it has been possible to apply from one person for this solidarity contribution several times in dozens of applications, which were then not blocked in any way, on the contrary they were launched by the system and paid out in hundreds of thousands. It was clear last May, when some workers of the Labour Office pointed it out, so it is no new matter. It's been over six months since they've pointed out that it's not controlled in any way and that there may be abuse of this system of digitalization of managing these doses here. [[15.00 hours]] It was clear last May, when some workers of the Labour Office pointed it out, so it is no new matter. It's been over six months since they've pointed out that it's not controlled in any way and that there may be abuse of this system of digitalization of managing these doses here. I don't understand why the Ministry didn't respond. I can think of one thing, and the fact that this is a political thing, I would say really populist, that we are really trying to give people the impression that we are helping, no matter what the cost. And I'm grateful to people for helping. I am grateful that they let Ukrainian refugees, like my honored colleague Jana Pastuchová, stay with them through the President, who also has them at home, in three generations. But here this, when really - and it is also part of the criminal proceedings at the Police of the Czech Republic - that they abuse those benefits, and it is repeated to us every time that the system is okay, but the workers themselves have been pointing it out for over six months, so this is a really crappy situation. That's why I'm proposing this point here as point two, and I called it the current situation at the employment offices. And I will add that we will be discussing this on the Social Policy Committee next week, where I also asked President Kaňkovský, by your means, to include this point here. And I hope that these gentlemen, such as Minister Jurečka and Chief Director Trpkoš, will be able to answer questions, or will they finally answer our questions without any arrogant answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u25	Mr. Ambassador, I'll ask you again, point 2, but do you mean today? [[Yes.]] Thank you, thank you. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby because this was the last proposal to change the agenda of the meeting. Babišová Andrea takes back her apology, Vladimíra Vladimíra apologizes from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons, Vojtko Viktor from 17:30 for work reasons and Minister Šalomoun Michal apologises from 17:00 for work reasons. I have yet to announce that Mr Major will vote with replacement card number 35. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the individual proposals, as they have been tabled gradually, first from the proposal by President Schillerová, which proposes the inclusion of a new point, under the heading... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] First, we must vote on the proposals. I won't read them unless there's an interest in repeating them again, unless there's any objection. First, we vote on the proposals I announced from the Gremium at the beginning of the meeting. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposals from the Gremium, as they have been said? Who's against it? Voting number 89, 162 in attendance, for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now, therefore, the proposal by President Schillerová, which proposes a new point, under the heading Explanation of contradiction in the expression of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka. So first of all, we're voting at all to place a point. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for this new point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 90, 163 in attendance, for 72, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Dostálová proposes that paragraph 84, the House Press 295, the Line Act, should be inserted firmly after paragraph 330 today. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 163 in attendance, for 158, versus 1. The motion was accepted. President Okamura proposes a new point, and the first point under the name of the Purple Government has broken its pre-election vows by a new programming declaration. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 163 in attendance, for 70, versus 86. The motion was not accepted. President Okamura also proposes a point entitled Millions of crowns for humanitarian benefits for Ukrainians have been stolen. It's a new point. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 163 in attendance, for 71, versus 87. The motion was not accepted. President Schillerová proposes a new point, under the title Response to Vice-President Skopeck's speech. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 163 Members of Parliament signed in for 68, versus 83. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová proposes that we place paragraph 83, which is the House's 294, on radio and television charges, as the first item today. I'm picking up an interest in the check-out, I've checked you all out. Please come forward again. I am opening the vote on Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 158 in attendance, for 69, versus 85. The motion was not accepted. Mr Farhan proposes a new item under the title Misguided statements by the Minister of Health and the availability of healthcare. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 96, registered 159, for 72, against 85. The motion was not accepted. Mr Brázdil proposes a new point, under the name Abuse of the Medical Rescue Service. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 97, registered 159, for 72, against 47. The motion was denied. Mr Juchelka - and thus the last proposal so far - has proposed a new point under the title Current Situation at the Labour Office. Initiating vote on the inclusion of a new item. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 159 in attendance, for 71, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Member to vote - I presume. [[Yes.]] Please keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. I voted in favour of the '91 vote, and I'm against the '91 vote. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-000-000.u27	Okay. So now we've dealt with all the proposals to change the agenda, and since we don't have any more, I'm really opening up a point.
